ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7405	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, guests at the visitor gallery, representatives of the media and spectators at home in front of the television screens, I welcome you and open the meeting. ==References====External links== Meeting of 21 March 1991 ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. March 2018 are inconvenient and have not been challenged. As prevented from taking part in today's meeting, the Members of Parliament are Androsch and Katzian as well as Brückl and Schartel. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7436	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl in the evening. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection Mag. Beate Hartinger-Klein is the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Ing. Norbert Hofer and the Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and Media Mag. Gernot Blümel, MBA, is represented by the German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. [[See also pp. 132 and p. 191.]] [[09:06:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7505	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:06:35]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7667	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 673/J by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Martha Bißmann, colleagues on "Integrated Climate and Energy Strategy". Under the Rules of Procedure, I may call this urgent question at 3 p.m. I announce that today's meeting of ORF 2 to 1 p.m. will be held live and ORF III will forward the meeting in full length today, with the part of the meeting going beyond 7.40 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7697	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 3 – including general debate – should be summarized, together with 4 to 6 and 7 and 8 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. This is therefore considered to be accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7718	A day-block period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed between the members of the presidential conference today, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP 167, SPÖ and FPÖ each 149 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 50 minutes. For Wednesday, 18th. April, and Thursday, 19th. April, a day-block speech time of 8 “Vienna hours” was agreed. There are therefore the following speaking times: ÖVP 148, SPÖ and FPÖ each 132 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 44 minutes. For the purposes of the procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the deliberations on agenda items 4 to 6 shall be divided as follows: Today: Subdivisions 01 to 06 and 10 and 17, then UG 32, then UG 12, then UG 13, and finally UG 11 and 18. Tomorrow follow UG 34 and 41, then UG 14, then UG 33 and 40, then UG 42 and 43, then UG 10 and finally UG 25. On Thursday we start with UG 30 and 31, then UG 20 to 22, then UG 24, then UG 15, 16, 23, 44 to 46, 51 and 58, as well as the texts of the federal financial laws and the remaining parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. Finally, the vote on agenda items 4 to 6. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed on the same day and the meeting will be suspended thereafter. Resolutions can only be submitted in the case of the respective breakdowns. The vote on any motions for resolutions tabled shall take place at the end of each third reading in the order in which they are submitted. The time-limit for the members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used, but, if the 20 minutes exceed each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed, for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the excess speaking time shall be taken to the speaking time of the respective government group. The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor at the General debate shall be as long as it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to these proposals to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:10:29]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (59 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the empowerment to divest and tax as well as the transfer of unmovable federal assets, states a federal law on the acquisition of participation in the Si.A. Establishment GmbH and the inclusion of other shareholders by means of an increase in capital and the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Law on the establishment of a housing investment bank, the Federal Property Law, the Accounting Agency Act, the Auditor Supervisory Act, the Financial Balance Act 2017, the Bundesmuseen Law 2002, the Federal Statistics Act 2000, the Consular Fees Act 1992, the European Election Act, the Volksbewijsengesetz 2018, the Electoral Evidence Act 2018, the Electoral Education Act 1979, the Employment Act 1956, the Contractual Employment Act 1948, the Law on Procurement Law 1989, the Federal Law on Tasks and Organisation of the Foreign Service – Statute, the University Law 2002, the Innovation Foundation Education Act, the General Social Insurance Law 1979, the Societiesgesgesetz, the Health Insurance Act 1948, the Health Insurance Act, the Health and Food Security Act, the Federal Law on the Law on Employment, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law for the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Education Investment Act and the Housing Law (90 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (67 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (94 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7813	Firstly, we come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate on Agenda items 1 to 3 also includes the general debate. Mr Klubobmann is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7844	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear TV viewers! If we are discussing the budget today, it is worth considering the basic conditions once again. We are, I think, all of us agree that we are dealing with an excellent economy. Economic growth has not been as good as it has been for ten years, the international situation is quite encouraging, and it can also be said that you have taken over from the previous government a budget with a structural deficit of 0.1 percent – that is, already very close to zero. In recent weeks, in the various committees, we have discussed jointly the proposals on the individual budget chapters which are now in the House. The impression we had from the very beginning has become quite firm: The draft budget, which is presented here, hardly pursues ambitions, is a forget of the future, and the savings that are proclaimed prove to be cuts in people's lives. We have heard a lot of Voooorhetoric from saving in the system in the past few weeks in the various bodies. Transfer your own numbers But you here on the contrary. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can draw your attention to an interesting comparison: The most renowned economic research institute in Austria, the Wifo, has shortly after the last National Council election presented a budget forecast, which was related to our commitments from the EU Stability Pact. With this forecast, the Wifo assumed that the structural deficit – and this is the crucial characteristic of our international commitments – will be 0.3 percent in 2018 and will reach zero in 2019. What you need to know: A few weeks after this forecast, the economic outlook has been significantly improved once again. – This is the basic condition you have found. If you look at your numbering work today, you will find amazing: It's no longer about 0.3 percent deficit this year, but the structural deficit increases to 0.5 percent despite all of your actions – that is, it's getting worse. The same applies for 2019: The Wifo has said, with the program you have taken over from the previous government, it is possible to achieve the zero, but you submit a budget with a deterioration of 0.5 percent. If you read the budget service documents in detail, you also know why: The structural deficit is the honest, hard currency of budgetary policy. As all economic effects are deducted, one-off effects are deducted. Our own budget service, the budget service of Parliament, has shown that what you call zero deficit is essentially due to economic effects and one-off effects. Their numbers are an unwanted revelation on their own. If you are looking for what is the reason for this development – there have been many measures discussed – then you can see that saving in the system remains very little and that it paralyses as a surprise when it comes to your own needs when it comes, for example, to significantly increasing and bloating the official and political apparatus in the cabinets, in the general secretariats and in other areas with additional staff you have approved. This is unfortunate because, above all, over these false expenditures, this wrong structure has been neglected in our budget, the real priorities that are obvious from my point of view: We have a commitment to combat unemployment, even if the economy is now getting better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We have an obligation to combat unemployment – this must remain a top priority – and nearly 400,000 people in Austria are without work and future prospects. [[Abg. Wheelers: SPÖ...!]] The efforts must not be paralysed! And what are you doing? – With an incredible hardness and consequence, they delete all the programs that would help. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Hundreds of millions of euros will be missing from the AMS, and honestly I have no explanation at all as to why you no longer finance the training guarantee until 25 years. Youth unemployment is a scourge. It's important to us – you don't care! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Further priority: We have to ensure that our women have real freedom of choice. Every woman in our country must be able to live her own life plan: stay with children at home, work part-time, take up full-time employment. We also have the obligation to invest in our future, in our children and in the education system. What you are presenting here, however, goes in a completely different direction. If you look closely at the numbers, you can see that, especially in the extension of childcare, massive savings are being made. In the previous budget, we had planned over 50 million euros for the care of the under three years. They have put this down to 1 000 euros. This means that we can at best finance a round of three-wheelers in the Parliamentary Kindergarten, Mr Finanzminister, but not a kindergarten development, and it is impossible to establish the right to all-day childcare, which would be so important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] Full-day schools: We have saved the banks 1 billion euros, for the financing of the comprehensive expansion of all day schools, this money is now disappearing in a black hole. In 2018, not a cent for this project is budgeted, and the whole programme has been delayed by seven years. These are future opportunities that we will forgive! These are the needs we need to finance, but they have been neglected and ignored in your budget. The next topic: Care. We have abolished the care rules in the High House, and we have done this for good reason: Many people who have built up a little over the course of their lives have spent a small amount on a savings book, perhaps bought an apartment, with their own hands, bricks for bricks, built a house, were the affected ones. Unfortunately, when they became a nursing case, everything was taken away from them. We ended this. We have also said that it is necessary to finance this, if you think it is serious, and have made a proposal in connection with the inheritance tax for heirs who receive more than EUR 1 million. They have rejected this, have pushed funding to the long-term bank, and are refusing to provide funding now. This leads to problems because this discussion is not fair. This can be financed, but it will not work as the ÖVP suggested by sticking an image to the e-card. In which case: I don't mind, we can also stick five pictures to the e-card, from me we make a Panini album like at the World Cup, then we have financed the entire state budget. – That would be so easy if it went after you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: It wasn't even funny!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Very funny!]] [[Abg. Höbart: The joke does not even understand the Mr. Kern! The Lord is the scribe!]] Health, the next challenge: We know that in an ageing society, the health system is crucial for people. The health system, the social state, is the property of the little man in our country. Aging society: Access to medical care at top level in the city and in the country, these are the challenges to be identified in this budget. Instead, you start a discussion on the reduction of funds at AUVA. The point is: This is a relatively simple process, which is shrouded in all kinds of fog. This is about the fact that large businesses will be paying 500 million euros less in the health system in the future when you think it comes to you. And then you come here and explain to us: Yes, we do that again with savings in the system, that already works! – But your savings only mean that money is pushed from the left into the right pocket. The truth is: The entire AUVA has an administrative budget of 90 million euros. If they are super successful, they may be able to cut this by 10 percent, which is 9 million euros, then still almost 500 million euros remain, and this is carried out in the form of reductions in performance on the back of the patients, or, alternatively, someone else may pay this bill. You have presented a last project for which we have a lot of sympathy. We know that it must be a priority to shape our pension system in such a way that poverty of old is avoided. We therefore considered it existent that the minimum pensions should be increased. We have taken a first step in increasing the compensation allowance. Now it is about taking a next step and allowing a minimum pension of 1,200 euros for longer periods of insurance. But the point is: Just as this discussion is being held, I have no confidence in it again, because you promise it and in fact did not picture it with a cent in the budget. The truth is: Again, women in our country will look through their fingers, because the model you are presenting here, 40 years of insurance times, does not affect women who raise children these days. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore call on you to review these budget priorities in detail. It is essential that we here ensure that the prospects for the future are actually perceived, that the opportunities given to us by the economy, including the international one, are not taken for granted. It would be necessary to arrange our state budget with more ambition, because what we have been presented here is definitely a deterioration in the financial status of the Republic of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e7983	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8005	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are starting into a new future, into a good new time, and, Mr Klubobmann Kern, the change has begun. Who still believes in Austria today that you have ever been the Federal Chancellor of this Republic? Your speech has not contributed to this, Mr Klubobmann Kern! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We present a budget for the years 2018 and 2019, as it has not been in this Republic for 65 years. In 2019, ladies and gentlemen, we achieve a surplus of more than half a billion euros – and that is what matters, we owe our children to the generations to come: to decide a budget here, which includes sustainability, which takes into account the generations to come. It is a question of the house mind, ladies and gentlemen, that you can't spend more time than you take. We cannot do this at home in our single-family homes, in our farms, in our agriculture, and we must not do it in the state budget either, so this is a good budget with a surplus in 2019. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition, we reduce the tax burden and taxes for people – less debt, less taxes and more for people in this country! Let me give you two examples: One is the Family Bonus Plus, a project with 1.5 billion euros for 950 000 families in this country and for 1.6 million children. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 150,000 children...!]] Children are the future of our country, and we invest in families with children. 1 500 euros net per child per year – this is already achieved at 1,750 euros gross, ladies and gentlemen – is the biggest tax relief for families with children over the last decades, and we are implementing it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A second project is the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. This has already been decided in the National Council and in the Federal Council. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Let me give you an example – Mr Klubobmann Kern, you always have good examples: I was in Siezenheim at the Post Distribution Centre, where a few hundred people work. I went through the halls with the works council and also talked to the employees there. What is the success of this measure? – There, when people start working at the post office, they earn 1 508 euros for 40 hours a week, and precisely these people we relieve with this measure. Between EUR 1 350 and EUR 1 950 gross, ladies and gentlemen, people who, for example, work at the post office, who work in the hospitality industry, who work in the trade or also at the carpenters – and we relieve them on average at EUR 300 a year. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Where is the budget for this?]] You know, for these people this is a lot of money, and it's incomprehensible that you didn't carry this measure. We relieve the service providers in our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also spend more money on security. Security is a basic need for people, which is also illustrated in this budget: more police officers, 2 100 additional police officers, 2 000 additional training places. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... prosecutors! ... Judge!]] We are investing in the security of this country because it is important for us to give people safety. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and that also accounts for the future. I also thank all the executive organs in Austria, which do excellent daily work for our people, for the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also relieve the domestic economy. We reduce the rate of VAT for tourism from 13 to 10 percent. This is an important measure for our businesses, hotels, gastronomy companies – we are happy to be there with our families. Furthermore, plus EUR 200 million for digitalisation, 1 billion euros in addition to broadband expansion. Broadband development is the most important rural infrastructure project. I come from the rural area, from the Inn district in Upper Austria, and it is a very special concern for us to invest in broadband development. These are tomorrow's jobs, including in rural areas, which we must maintain and promote. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And we're saving in the system! Yes, Mr Klubobmann Kern, we are saving in the system: in the promotions, in the rental costs for the federal buildings. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, we also abolish actions such as the employment bonus and the 20 000 action, because we believe that we do not need to invest in a high-economy phase in addition to taxpayers if they do so anyway. And: If there are fewer refugees, we also have less costs; that is a question of the house mind. Because you have referred to the AMS, I feel asked to say a few words here as social spokesperson of the People's Party: The AMS budget was unanimously adopted by the Board of Directors, since the red trade unionists agreed. Why did they agree? - Because it's a good budget! We even have a little more money at our disposal in 2018 per unemployed person than we spent in 2017 per unemployed person; therefore, the red trade unionists on the board of the AMS agreed: because it is a good budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The change has begun, ladies and gentlemen. This budget is the basis for the next two years. We are also in good conversation with the federal states that we address the challenges we face here, such as in the field of care, regarding care rules. Thank you, Minister of Finance, for this next week there will be a round of talks with the national financial experts! We take our mission seriously, we work for people in this country under the aspect: less debt, less taxes, more for the people in Austria, for the citizens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] I would also like to thank the Minister of Finance, Mr State, for the head of government for this budget. Whoever thinks it good with the people in this country agrees to this budget 2018/2019.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8125	Mr Dr. Stroll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8146	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Yes, this week's budget decision: Double budget for this year and next year. That is to say, Minister of Finance, you are covering, and for yourself, this programme, which has been put into figures, with this budget, half of this legislative period. I see this as well as all the experts, like all the informed citizens who say that you do not use the favor of the hour in any way. What was promised very full-bodied, “time for new” was not respected from our point of view, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because you do not use the favor of the hour – the citizens are currently bringing a lot of money, also from the companies, i.e. sprinkling tax revenues, booming economics, falling unemployment, historically lowest interest rates – for real reforms; that is the real pain. It has, I believe, been recognized, Minister of Finance, that you are a differentiated person who is concerned with matters here and for himself with expertise; so it is all the more surprising to me that you are not dealing with reforms. I can only explain it by saying that in the background the resistances are much larger than is widely known that the shackles of the old system are not solved in any way, but that this was only rehearsed for the election campaign – as well as images in the background are rehearsed, Mr. Bundeskanzler, if you sit somewhere at a table and a photo of it is then published. [[Call the SPÖ:Punish!]] So you managed to move the population a bit far and somehow photoshop a picture during the election campaign, which was believed but increasingly turned out to be a trick. The fact is that you are obviously not prepared to take the reforms seriously. The pension reform was referred to by Sebastian Kurz as the head of the Young ÖVP a few years ago as a very high priority – and it is a priority! Why? – Because, between 2017 and 2022 alone, the costs – Mr. Federal Chancellor, you know these figures – for civil servants’ pensions and pension subsidies from the Federal budget rise from 18.2 billion to 23.2 billion euros. That's 5 billion euros of growth by 2022, that's huge sums. This is, for example, the science budget that we have set for all universities and colleges; only the growth block within five years consumes the entire science budget for 300,000 young people we want to train top in this country. There you go. You don't answer, you say: We don't need reforms, we're fine! – You know that you lie in your own bag. That's not fair, that's not unique fit, that's not future fit. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The same is true of federalism. Is there a federalism reform? - No, you don't even think about it, I have the feeling. Your own Minister for Reform is beginning to despair – at this point, of course, my serious wishes for a good recovery to Minister Moser. I understand his doubts because he does not have the backing in his own party because, after the elections, no one is interested in real federalism reforms. I'm prophesying, it's getting even worse. Next week the last country election is over, and then the princes of the country will come out of their hiding places with a new self-confidence and let things run as they do, namely, the Republic take off the pants at every negotiation. Before the election, it will be danced. For example, the abolition of the care rule: The federal states are able to do so, unanimously in the Federal Council. So either we have a Chamber of State and they think about it properly, or we don't need the Federal Council! – I don't think we need him because he's also hostageed by party politics. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] If the elections are over, they crawl out and say: We can't do that! And of course they're right, it's so not that you're hiding the real numbers to people and a few months later you realize you're kind of having a big problem. You can't do serious politics, you just can't do that. [[Abg. Rosary: Oh, that's all right with us! Very, very, very!]] – Not seriously, that is the difference, Mr Rosenkranz. You can make politics like that, but that's what you call national populist or something, but that's not serious; that's, people are rocking, but don't take it seriously. [[Abg. Rosary: Very! This is a very serious policy that is being pursued here, which has nothing to do with trees.]] Next point: Education. They're cutting down on education. At the Innovation Foundation for Education you go from 50 million to 2 million euros. The message is: We don't need any innovation in education, everything paletteti! [[Abg. Rosary: Working with us! We're not just making messages like you!]] Is everything palletti if 23 percent at 15 years of age cannot read after nine years of school? - No, there's not everything paletteti! [[Abg. Rosary:... perfect nonsense!]] This is a great-style robbery of the future. And then the national leaders come back to play: That educational reform you passed last year when you said: We are now making educational directives so that we can drive the educational agendas out of a cast!, has a significant tricky error, so we have not been able to go along with it. They say that the national leaders can make themselves the heads of these educational directorates by virtue of national law. And what happens? - Even worse: The Styrian national policy has now provided for it to retain a part of the educational agendas in the state government by virtue of national law. So it does not even want to accept the failed new education management as such, but for example retains the appointment of directors directly in access by the state government. That's why you have to ask yourself. Do you want good for the young people? – No, you want to bring party politics into schools, you want to continue ordering 6,000 school directors along the party book. And that's "time for new", Sebastian Kurz?- Oh, my God! Seriously? You can't be serious! [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Kolba.]] It was Christian Kern in the June Negotiation last year – and I have to add a bonus to him – who said: We don't do that at the education board! And it was the ÖVP new and old together who said: No, we need that! And in the back of the hand, the chief negotiators also said: We need this for our national leaders, namely party political access to school. The schoolbook is not relevant, the party book is highly relevant. These are things when I tell people, they just shake their heads. [[Abg. Rosary: Because they don't believe what you say! You don't believe what you're saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] And when we're honest: If we speak under four eyes, if each one of you follows the best knowledge and conscience, then, I say, you won't find in there five people who say that's right. [[Abg. Jarolim: Completely right!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Let's vote!]] No five people find you, no five people! [[Congratulations with the NEOS, as well as with representatives of SPÖ and List Pilz.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: I don't find five people for NEOS at home!]] If these new old ÖVPs – black is back – and FPÖs enter their qualified publics together, then the house mind and intellectual fairness evacuate, then again party politics reigns before what is really important to people – and that is what I owe, and this is also expressed in this budget. This is an error of attitude, which I believe you have here – more than a mistake of attitude, but also an error of attitude. [[Abg. Jarolim: More than a wrong attitude!]] That is why we will continue to devote ourselves to the issues that are so important to the country. We will continue to put forward our proposals. It is the task of the opposition to look at your fingers. Mr Minister, I think you can personally do better, and I encourage you to release the bonds and the catches of party policy. You still have four years, good for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8351	Mr Erwin Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8375	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Chancellor! Estimated government members! High house! Mr Strolz, you have been looked at: It's not quite easy to disapprove of a good budget. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: weak announcement!]] Let us take a close look at the starting situation and look at the facts: The fact is, our state, our federal budget has been doing little for 65 years, we have spent more and more money than we have taken. That's fact, the numbers don't lie. While it has been possible to achieve a general government surplus, it is said that the municipalities, the countries, the social security institutions, and then there has once been a general government surplus, but I believe that every local authority – a municipality, a country, the federal government – is responsible for its figures and has the task and responsibility to deal with the money it takes from the taxpayer carefully and also to try to deal with it. I believe that this is the responsibility of every local authority and also of the federal government. The fact is: Today we have a debt mountain of around 290 billion euros, that is, every Austrian, no matter what age, today has a backpack with around 39 000 euros. Fact is also – that's right – we have a good economy. The question is what to use this good economy and what to do in times of a good economy. Do you continue to live on about the conditions and perhaps do things you cannot afford, or do you lower the tax and tax rate, introduce reforms that you have rightly addressed here, and reduce the debt? – This is one way, the reduction of the tax and tax rate and the reduction of debt; the other means new taxes, new debts and continued life over the conditions. We have decided on the way to say today that we are reducing the tax and tax rate, depriving ourselves of debt and introducing reforms. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am sure that a large number of responsible Austrians will consider this path to be correct and will also support it. A corresponding budget is the basis for these reforms and gives the opportunity to direct reforms in the right direction, but the reforms can only be made in the individual ministries and through individual policies. However, the budgets for the years 2018 and 2019 are the basis for going in this direction. As in a company, it is also important here in policy that decisions are made. The last ten years have led us to see what is the worst, if no decisions are made and there is a policy of standstill. There must be no longer any such thing in this country in the future. We have, of course, discussions and there are excitements about how to deal with these reforms. Everyone who is affected is, of course, someone who needs to be convinced that this reform is right. Not all who are affected are absolutely happy with the reforms, but we must keep in mind that these reforms are socially compatible. It is simply necessary for us to make our state fit for the future, and we must reduce the burden on those who maintain this state, which is so important to us, so that we can live in it in the future and our children have the opportunity to grow up in this social state. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is also a fact that in the 2018 and 2019 budgets – many examples have already been mentioned – appropriate tax reductions are included, for example, for low-earners, although it is always said that we are not doing anything for the low-earners, namely in a total of 140 million euros; in addition, the family bonus, the amount of amortization per child: around 700 million euros; Reduction of additional labour costs: around 700 million euros. On the other hand, more money is spent: more money for care and social care: 800 million euros in the coming years; more money in the field of education and research – so it is not true that there is saving –: almost 2 billion euros. Everyone who works in the research field today, universities are very happy about this budget, because it is for the first time something that really goes in the right direction as regards the training and education of our young people. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you, Mr Kern, are taking the kindergarten as an example here today and are addressing day-to-day childcare as possible and important measures, I must say: Of course, this is an important measure, but then you also have to say that there is no federal competence for it. This concerns the competence of the communities. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have been in our community since 2004 with an all-day kindergarten with cross-age childcare from one and a half years to 15 years. We offer this to our citizens, to our families, and of course it is accepted. This is important, and it is necessary to give the relevant resources to the local authorities responsible. However, it is not the task of the National Council to discuss all day care because there is no competence for it because competence lies with the local authority. Of course, it is necessary to provide the municipalities with the appropriate resources by means of a corresponding responsibility for tasks, expenditure and financing. This has not happened in recent years, and I think that these measures must simply be taken in the next few years and in our federalist state we must create the appropriate framework conditions, Mrs Colleague, taking into account the individual regional authorities I think are very good, unlike Mr Strolz, who always accuses the countries, our national leaders here. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... the federal states! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is the removal of responsibility! Unbelievable!]] I don't think that's all right. They do good work; also every councillor and every mayor does good work, only he has to get the appropriate resources for his work. I believe that this is the task of policy, and this is the task we have to do here, and there will also be improvements in all areas. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As I said, there is the way: new taxes, new debts, about living conditions; but also the way: Reduce debt, reduce tax and tax rates and introduce the corresponding reforms. We are not only guilty of youth, which means the future of our country, but also of the older generation that has built up this social state. That is the right way, and that is why I would like to ask you, today and also in the next few days, if we are going to discuss this budget in detail, to go into it again and consider whether you should not agree to this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8474	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8495	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If Mr Löger says so, he has presented a great budget here. [[Abg. Rosary: Right, so is! Bravo!]] He's proud of it – it's a turn of time. But I tell you, we have looked very closely at the budget, we have analysed it, we have discussed it in the committee last week, and my findings are different; I will now present it. There can be no question of a turnaround in the government at all. The reduction in the deficit and the achievement of surpluses are, of course, not due to government action, but to two factors: on the one hand, to a very, very good economic situation and, on the other, to low interest rates. I remember what the government negotiators said at the beginning of November: They have said that the budget deficit will rise in 2018. No one understood that at the time. None of the forecasts submitted nationally but also by the European Commission have gone in this direction. The government negotiators simply and simply did not understand that a very, very good economy has an impact on the budget balance. And in the follow-up process, with the presentation of this double budget, you have corrected your opinion – late, but after all. However, there can be no mention of the change of time alone. [[In the list of mushrooms, as well as the Abg. Core.]] Approaching consolidation in times of good economic activity is certainly correct, but saving is not a self-interest, saving serves consolidation. Debt per se is not negative. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the FPÖ, it is about meeting the major challenges in the next few years. It is very crucial in this context what the taxpayers are used for – are they used for these challenges? – and who brings them up to what extent. Let me mention some of the major challenges: for example, the climate issue remains outside; the ageing of society – this is less about pensions, but in particular about care – is an issue that remains outside; the social question remains outside. In the climate question, nothing happens: The budgets are essentially cut down, the flight tax has already been halved in the last legislative period – this is what the current government is writing on its flags and at the same time presents a climate and energy strategy. In view of the ageing of society, care is a special challenge. And what is being debated in this government? – The care rules and the underdo awayment by the abolition of the care rule. The countries first put their demands on the table last week at the meeting of national financial experts. In this respect, Mr Finanzminister, there is a very clear subsidisation. In my opinion, however, the very decisive thing is the social question, and the social question shows the real, the real turnaround of these two budgets. If we look at the measures contained in these budgets, the family bonus plus, the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions, the reduction of the turnover tax for hoteliers, then we see that essentially so-called service providers are relieved – clientele of the ÖVP. ÖVP client policy of the finest is being carried out here! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] But those people who are also service providers in this Republic, the providers of low incomes, the beneficiaries of incomes that are so low that no wage and income tax is to be paid, who receive little to nothing. Let us take the family bonus plus, Mr. Wöginger: The well-earners benefit from this with up to EUR 1,500 per child, and the single parent who has a gross income of less than EUR 1 250 per month, with a maximum – maximum, Mr. Colleague, listen to me well! – 250 euros; this is just one sixth of them. Isn't every child worth the same amount? - It's me. I think that would be socially fair. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Of course, it must also be noted that those people who do not pay income tax and pay income tax, of course, pay social security contributions and, of course, pay VAT. When we look at the total tax burden, we see that we essentially have a proportional rate. That is, of lower incomes, you pay only relatively little less taxes than of high incomes – and this is forgotten in these two budgets. What we have here is essentially a redistribution from the lower-income third to the two upper-income thirds. I can prove this to you – you shake your head. Where is it shortened? – The reduction of asylum seekers, asylum seekers, school integration – a short time there does not mean saving, that will be a revenge – is more than 50 for the long-term unemployed. The good economy does not help these people at all, that is a structural problem. Further: In general, low income and low earnings are reduced. In the field of active labour market policy, it is shortened. The compulsory schools are reduced in real terms. And in the international context, development aid is also cut short. But where is not shortened? – Do not be shortened in the administration. Saving in the system is always called, but I looked at it more closely: For example, in your department, Mr. Finanzminister, staff expenditure in central administration is growing by 4.9 percent. That's what you call saving in the system? Do you really think that's serious? It's not much different with you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor: In your area too, staff expenditure is increasing as well as operating expenditure. - You don't save in the system. But you claim that you do. In fact, we're dealing with a phenomenon here, which means: Suction of hot air in the order of 1 billion euros. [[In the case of the Pilz list, the SPÖ and the Agg. Stroll.]] This is plumsy budget trickery, we know it from the past! Not at all saved are the high incomes or the rich, so that from the distribution perspective, I would like to stress once again that we have a redistribution from bottom to top. [[Call:]] That's the sad finding I have to make. This policy will continue, further steps will be taken. It has been announced that the reduction in corporate tax has been announced, a lower rate has been announced at lower rates – this naturally favours the higher incomes and not so much lower incomes, and those who do not pay a wage tax at all. The Hartz-IV problem: In Germany, we are talking about how to get away from Hartz IV. There is a serious debate about this, and we in Austria are making the transition from unemployment benefit to minimum security through the removal of emergency aid seamless. This will lead to a low wage sector, which will lead to increasing poverty. You just need to take a look at Germany, there you can observe it very, very closely. But where can you find nothing, nothing at all? – The structural reforms. Where is the federalism reform of Mr Josef Moser's Minister for Administrative Reform? – Let's hear withdrawal rumors. Where is the massive reduction in additional wage costs through an environmental tax reform? - Nothing to hear, nothing to see. Or: Where is the reduction in additional labour costs due to higher taxation of assets? - Nothing there! But where you are very likely to intervene in the structures, ladies and gentlemen, this is in budgetary law; I am now entering the Budgetary Support Act. There is an inconspicuous article 1, and you want to move the medium-term budget planning from spring to autumn. In other words, you are concerned that you need to discuss budgets with us here in this House too much about public budgets. I think that's unbearable. One of the arguments for moving the federal financial framework into the autumn that you used was that you said we want to create timely budgets. Then, Mr Finanzminister and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I ask you: Why is the 2019 budget now presented in spring and not only in autumn? If you want to create it in time, please do it in autumn! - So you're upsetting this argument yourself. However, what you do with it is the right of participation created with the new budgetary law 2013. If you do this today, you will abolish this House's right to co-operation in the production of budgets. This is a step backwards from democracy, and we do not want to take this step back on democracy policy, which is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why is this really a scandal? – An evaluation of budgetary law has been made, which has cost 200 000 euros, and you present the results of this evaluation to this House. And without need and without discussing these results here She simply debated the Federal Financial Framework in autumn. Unbearable! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] I'll get you together. The focus of the double budget in times of good economic activity on consolidation is correct, but the sad result is: We are dealing here with a neoliberal turnaround, a neoliberal turnaround that accelerates the trend towards a two-thirds society. It is not relieved where it would be urgently necessary for those who have had to lose real income in the last 15 years, no, it will be relieved above. Another point: Climate protection is completely ignored. Finally, let me also point out a point that has already bothered me very much in the Committee on Budgets last week: There was an amendment tabled by ÖVP, FPÖ, SPÖ, but also NEOS to increase the resources of this House. In part, the increase in funds, which from my point of view – given the reduction in other areas and given the reduction in low income – is unacceptable. For the reasons set out here, we will not accept this amendment or the double budget 2018/2019. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[9:58]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8669	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I now give Mr. Löger the floor to Mr. Federal Minister. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8694	Mr President. Dear colleagues! High house! Dear guests at the gallery! Dear spectators at home! I am pleased that today is again given the opportunity to look to a good future with the double budget 2018 and 2019. I am supported by the speeches of the first round and am strengthened that this budget is very likely to mean a change in direction in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is a clear commitment to an end to debt policy in Austria, it is a clear commitment to the discharge of Austrian citizens, and it is a clear commitment to savings in the system, in the administration. That's the foundation. And those from the opposition series who are now trying to conjure up everything possible and practice themselves in the voodoo language may recall that already in the first debate of this House on the budget, but above all in the discussions in the meetings of the Budget Committee, it has been made quite clear: We have realized that it cannot continue like this! I'm going straight to Klubobmann Kern, the ex-Bundeskanzler: If you boast the outcome of 2017, I say: Yes, the 2017 result was achieved in Austria on the basis of an overarching economy, which you had planned with 1.5 percent as forecast and ultimately reached 3 percent. Nevertheless, you have managed to push the result – revenue and expenditure – from planned minus 4 billion to minus 6.9 billion euros as a result. If you're proud of it, I can't understand. We will change this and we have taken a clear and new direction for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In the discussions we had at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets, and in the opinions of the opposition, I would like to say that: On the one hand, it's a threat picture that you're staged to create fears of the Austrians that are more than questionable in this form. On the other hand, however, it is the opposition that demands more: even more savings, even more in the sense of the favor of the hour. And so it is also a confirmation that we have found with this budget for 2018 and 2019 a reasonable, good approach and a stable basis for financial policy in Austria, which we will also consistently implement. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Debt Policy: I have also confirmed the fact that in Austria the problem is not that we have a revenue problem – that has been permanently commented on in recent years – but that we have an expenditure problem. It was interesting, however, in my opinion, to hear from the SPÖ that the question was asked whether there was a debt problem at all. That was to be heard in the first debate. In the Committee meetings, there was an exciting discussion about whether there are good or bad debts that we have. I say to hold this ideological discussion in Austria, that is necessary. We have much too high debt, we have built up 65 years of debt in a dimension of over 290 billion euros, 84 percent of gross domestic product as debt, over 33 000 euros per head and nose of every newborn child in Austria; that is too much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] We don't need to discuss whether these are good or bad debts. We will consistently reduce them, we will give Austria air again for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Yes, I do not deny it and have also clearly declared it: We all benefit from the fact that Austria is experiencing a particularly positive wave of economic activity. However, we know from the forecasts for 2019 and the following also that this economy will not remain at this level. This is precisely because the framework conditions are also good, we will work here consistently – also with the measures we have in the government programme. And we will ensure that this dimension of the annual debt burden, which burdenes us in the order of EUR 6 billion per year, can be used in particular for meaningful investments in the future, because we are reducing this debt burden, and since 1954 we will be able, for the first time, to lead this country with less expenditure and more revenue. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Savings in the system, savings in the administration: We have this basis, we want to reach EUR 2.5 billion in savings. These consist of around EUR 1 billion in direct administrative costs, elements that we have in all areas, where there is the possibility of saving in the form of efficiency increase, in the form of also meaningful reductions. This is a basis that we will not only see in the short term, but also in the form of donation reviews, a form of cost management, consistently continue in the coming years. This is our understanding of professional savings, of professional cost management, and we will not let that happen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I also draw a picture that Klubobmann has also put at the heart of the debate, where it concerns the withdrawal of pointless measures, precisely because of this positive economic situation, as it was already the case in 2017. You have also put in place measures which have already been called unnecessary and pointless by the economic researchers you are referring to today; [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: For example?]] They put it anyway. We have allowed ourselves to take back these actions, both the employment bonus and the 20 000 action. [[Abg. Core: You call that pointless?]] You meant that this would not be a saving, you took a world trip as a picture. Mr. Kern, I will give you the answer. Your policy was, in particular, striking last year, that you have always set topics, have decided something without having a refinancing, and you have said: Well, if we don't make the world trip now, then it's no savings! They have permanently booked for the future and have left others to find the appropriate measures. We put them in place, we save, and we lead Austria into a good, reasonable future. That's our foundation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the third point, to the honest discharge of Austrian taxpayers: You brought the picture today: from the left into the right pocket. That is exactly the trick that has been applied for many years. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: From the ÖVP!]] We have seen in Austria that permanent tax reforms have been declared as a discharge and savings measure. Yes, reforms have taken place, only the problem has been that the tax rate has remained a permanent dimension of 43, 44 percent in total over 15 years that I have analyzed for myself. That is to say, this foundation has led you to constantly pre-accumulate the Austrians to relieve them; in fact, in the past you have still pulled the money out of the other bag. We want to proceed with honest discharges through savings in the system, we will ensure that the tax rate falls to a first reasonable framework of 40 percent in the next few years. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You don't believe that yourself!]] This is the basis that leaves the Austrians at the end of the month more money that opens up the opportunity to give a further good economic impulse. This is our understanding of performance, which is our understanding of a constructive future policy in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this context, we must say: We will continue to work consistently, we have started measures, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What do they think about small incomes?]] You can do what you want, the topic is, we do not have a banking system in Austria, but we have a transformation system. By means of performance, the economy will generate our base of tax money, and this will continue to be ensured accordingly in the future by giving citizens the opportunity to have more money by means of benefits to finance solidarity and social security in Austria. It is not possible to finance social security on a permanent basis on a pump, just as it has been done for decades. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's not true at all!]] We ourselves must ensure that we have a functioning, secure system in Austria. This is the basis of this budgetary policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In order to preserve this energy for the future, we will not only take these first measures – the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions, the family bonus Plus, which is particularly important for this discharge – but we will also take further consistent steps with income tax reform 2020 and the following. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, is the honest basis for a government programme that will secure the conditions for Austria in the next few years, and this budget is the basis for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8868	Mrs Angelikack is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8889	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Now we are leaving Mr Rossmann's fantasy country and coming back to reality. Opportunities instead of debt as well as tax reduction instead of new burdens – this is the premise of our federal government and also of the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ. With this double budget, we rely on sustainability, on discharge and on future. The reduction in the tax rate is a central issue in this legislative period, some of which are already shown in the budget. Although Austria is one of the countries with the highest tax burden in Europe – for example, the Dutch pay 2,000 euros less taxes per capita than we do – the polemics of the opposition have already been raised again. In fact, old patterns of thinking do not mean that efficiency in government expenditure can finance both high social benefits and a reduction in the tax rate. In the private sector, we need to vote every day to ensure that we can provide our employees with a secure job. The error to which the opposition in education, social and economic policy is subject is the assumption that more resources automatically lead to better results. One can see this in terms of educational expenditure. Austria spends 9 600 euros per child per year on education, while the Netherlands achieves a much better result in the Pisa study with 8 800 euros and Finland with 8 100 euros. But I would like to say one thing: The claim that we are saving the social budget, we are saving social expenditure, is not only wrong, but also ridiculous. The fears created here by the opposition actually lead only to the narrowness of their thinking. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The fact is that half of our budget is spent on the social sector, which is because the government parties are aware of how important it is. The left have not taken the better conscience into account in the social field. This is reflected in the first action taken by the Federal Government, the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions at lower incomes. An employee who earns 1,700 euros will be in the future, starting from 1. More available on July 476 euros per year. I assume that this positive report is also communicated by the Chamber of Workers and the ÖGB to its members, the ÖAAB has already made this excellent. Action 20 000: This was not just an action at the wrong time, there are much better measures for integration into the First Labour Market, which is also in line with the dignity of unemployed people. From my experience I can tell you that I have had two clients of life aid in my company for five years, I take over on Monday from the BFI a participant who wants to complete a part-time teaching, and these young people have a real chance to find a secure job on the first job. Such opportunities will continue in the future to be expanded more. Action 20 000 did not, and it did not even manage to find a solution for those who do not want to work. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we clearly benefit from the good economy, but we benefit from it to increase the efficiency of public expenditure, to invest in education, to the social sector, to families and to safety. We use it to end debt policy, and we use it to reduce the tax and tax rate. Mr Federal Minister, summa summarum, you have presented a budget with heart, expertise and home mind, which will satisfy the wishes of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8946	Mr Arbitrator is speaking on behalf of the PPE Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e8968	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have just heard, of course, the positive words of the Minister for Finance about his budget. If you just listen, you believe that too. However, in the last week the budget-detailed discussions and the detailed work with the individual breakdowns here in the house have partly brought quite a different truth to light, namely that not everything that is beautifully colored here is really so beautiful. This is similar to what your great party chairman Sebastian Kurzmacht is doing, because hardly a photo appears somewhere on Facebook and he does not like the image on the wall in the background, is re-touched. [[holding a panel with two photos, on which Bundeskanzler Kurz, sitting at a table, can be seen in front of another picture hung on the wall]] There was still Markus Wallner who was supposed to be afraid that he would also be rehearsed and replaced by Sebastian. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That's incredible!]] Just like this, which is not only a fun, but, of course, a great scandal when the Federal Chancellor of this country tells the head of state Vorarlberg: I don't want the background of your Facebook contribution, please color it and turn it around, and this one does it, just as your budget policy, Mr. Finanzminister, is. [[Call the FPÖ: What does this have to do with the budget?]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Höbart: You can do this more precisely at the Renner Institute...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If you say on the one hand, you save in the system, then it turns out on the other hand, you budget under a wrong budget item 15 million euros of basket money for the vice chancellor and 51 million euros of basket money for Federal Chancellor Kurz. In addition, 166 planning posts are added to Federal Chancellors and Deputy Chancellors for Advisory Staff. That's not saving in the system, that's real fat to tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What to do But you are in health and care? – They require AUVA to save 500 million euros. As Christian Kern said in his speech, she has an administrative budget of 90 million euros. Even if AUVA saves its entire administration, over 400 million euros remain in terms of performance reductions, insecurity and less health care for the people of our country. That's wilful crushing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The The same applies to the labour market. If you say it is pointless to do something for older unemployed people, then, I would tell you, you also have the courage to say this cynical sentence to a more than 50-year-old who is standing at the employment office and is happy that he has a chance that you have taken away from him now! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Rossmann.]] They also save on the future of our youth. You cut down in school, you hesitate to expand the whole day school programs further. They reduce child care from millions to only 1 000 euros. They introduce access barriers to the university. They delete the court year for the Jus students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] They delete the Youth Trust Council for the apprentices. – All these are measures that offer our young people less opportunities in the future. This is the wrong way for our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Students can make a court year?]] They endanger the interests of workers. They endanger the future of children. They're risking health care. They endanger the care of older people who are provided by their families. They destroy the economic location, because you have also shortened the SME, and you have shortened the start-up support. [[Abg. Höbart: You can't even write economy!]] And the same happens to the rule of law when you look at what you have done to judges, prosecutors and the like for a disaster. [[Abg. Hoebart: Friendly business!]] Now listen, then you also have an indication of how you can do better! What we demand is to raise the minimum pension to 1,200 euros already next year, 2019, and not as you have pushed it out on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, we would like to see an improved account of child care periods for the pension in this respect. We call on you to take action against long-term unemployment and to continue and reintroduce action 20 000. [[Abg. New builder: Have you ever worked something?]] We demand from you that there be a guarantee that the care rules will not be reintroduced through the back door, but that their abolition will be financed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We call on you to maintain investment in education, to keep the expansion of all day schools on schedule according to the Education Investment Act and to continue the digitalisation offensive in schools. We ask you to issue here today in the house an inventory guarantee for the AUVA, the accident insurance institution, and their services.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9164	Mr Gudenus is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9186	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted today about a very lively debate on the budget of this House and the next year in the House. In the last few days, we have also been able to discuss the various breakdowns in the committees. I should like to focus briefly on the contributions made by my previous speakers. I wrote down a few words – for example, Mr. Kern’s word “for the future”. I can now come to his address as Federal Chancellor two years ago: He wants to clean up with the “potency and oblivion of the future. ” – I don’t think he did much in the one and a half years after that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He's still talking about it. He speaks of "Voodoorhetoric" and the "own figures" of the Federal Government. I said a few weeks ago at the last speech: If reds count, it'll be dangerous. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] But let us come to the “Voodoorhetorics”: Mr Kern and Mr Schieder, as regards your speeches, I come back to our input dispute. A few months ago, Mr. Kern quoted the “Hexen one-time” from “Faust”. You know the “Hexen-One-time” from the “Hexen Kitchen”: “You must understand! Make out of one ten, and let two go, and make three like that, so you are rich. Lose the Four! From five and six, so says the witch [...]” – and so on and so on. I don't want to quote everything. [[Mr Drozda and Mr Rädler.]] However, you also know, Mr. Kern, because you are persuasive – in “faust” – what Mr. Faust is replying to the Witch’s statement: “I think the old one speaks in the fever.” [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] The same is the case with the speeches of colleagues Kern and Schieder. If we have a budget, which for the first time introduces a trend change, a paradigm change that looks at the Austrians, the families, then you can't talk bad, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a good thing, and I can only call on you to agree. This is a budget with heart, brain and house mind. This has not just been expected in some way, but is of course also intended for the Austrians, for service providers, but with a social view. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We don't let anyone down who thinks it's good, but it's bad. These people will not be abandoned, ladies and gentlemen - certainly not! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know exactly what we have experienced in recent years, but one under a SPÖ, a red German chancellor was actually just getting the money out of the bag. Now we have a budget for the first time, by which people get money back to the wallet at the end of the month and of the year, just feel that they are relieved, and that is good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] This will be felt by the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The government is going to reorganise the budget, debt will be reduced – this is clearly stated in the budget – and citizens will be relieved at the same time. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, the word relief is apparently a foreign word for the SPÖ – a foreign word! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] You're talking about the citizens being burdened, but you haven't done anything else in the last few years. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] There is now more money for the families, the family bonus Plus, which is 1.5 billion euros more for families, 1.6 million children, 950 000 families are affected – and you're talking about burdens! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not all!]] There are reliefs from the families, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Objection to the SPÖ.]] There's more money for security. There is more than 190 million euros in the federal army. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] That too is good, ladies and gentlemen. There is more money for the police, for better equipment and also for the officials, both the police, the federal army and the judicial guard, because they should hold their heads for our security every day and have a sense of appreciation. As a turquoise-blue federal government, we do this with Vice-Chancellor Strache and Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz. That too is good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is more money for the people involved in small and medium-sized incomes – that is perfectly clear – up to 311 euros more for the people involved in small incomes. This too will be made possible. [[Abg. Krainer: That's 10 Euro...!]] There is more money for social and care, more money for education, science, research, broadband expansion, digitalization. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] This, too, makes this new federal government possible. We're just keeping what we promise. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] And we also keep what we promise when we say: We want to save by limiting social immigration to Austria, reducing or reducing the magnetic effect. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We are saving the area of immigration into the social system. We save asylum seekers and asylum seekers – yes! When it comes to equalising the minimum guarantee, we will also do so, because it cannot be done, Mr. Kern, that your comrades in Vienna continue to raise the minimum guarantee to a maximum, so that immigration into the social systems can continue, and that the Viennans – or in other areas the Austrians – are downgraded to second-class citizens. This will not continue, Mr Kern and colleagues from the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Vogl.]] There will also be much less family aid paid abroad. The new Federal Government is setting in motion the indexation of family aid. And, of course, it also leads to a reduction in administrative costs. We're saving in the system. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Vogl.]] To sum up, you can say: That must be budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. It is precisely that and no different that budgetary policy must be. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Let us return briefly to the subject of security: There is more than 250 million euros for the police within two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] This could never have happened before: More than 250 million euros within two years. We get more 2 000 police officers, we get 2 100 police officers and 2 000 jobs for training places more from the police. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at SPÖ]] That's good, ladies and gentlemen, because it takes more presence of the police in public space. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It takes more presence if women in the dark no longer trust in the street alone, for example at the Praterstern or in other railway stations, in Linz, in Innsbruck, in Klagenfurt and the like. We will get through this, ladies and gentlemen, first by more police and second by rigorous deportations and subsequent detention. This makes Mr Kickl possible. We ensure security and order – and that is good, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Haubner and Mr Schwarz.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, I may call you to do so if there is still a little bit of home mind and heart to agree to this good budget at the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9423	Next item is the report by Mrs Karin Doppelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9445	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear citizens! We are celebrating the High Office of Parliamentaryism this week. It is about the Republic's budget, about policy cast into figures. Mr Finanzminister, you have presented this House with a double budget for the years 2018 and 2019, which contains a lot of work. I would like to thank NEOS on your part and the employees of your home very much for the work. I would also like to thank the staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate for the perfect implementation of the budget weeks and not least for the budget service of Parliament, which has always been impartial and objective to us Members with their expertise. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS, as well as representatives of ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Now I come to the content: What this budget lacks is the necessary courage. At first glance, the budget doesn't seem spectacular and, so to speak, you hear it from many sides – even fine. I feel a great pain, because in fact this Biedermeier budget is highly risky in its political inactivity. Why? – Because we first have historical framework conditions – high economy, high tax revenue, low interest rates – in order to address the necessary reforms. That is, we lose two years, almost half of the government period is estimated. Therein lies my pain. This double budget is evidence of the inaction of the new government. This double budget is the framework for two out of five years of your government period, which you do not use with this Biedermeier budget. What are you waiting for? They comfort us in 2020; and I really wonder: What will be better in 2020 and why don't you get in the way? Keeping only the status quo is at the moment, in times of change – we all know – highly risky. Now let's look at what you're doing in the next two years! I'll get a few points out. You said you wanted to save in the system. We looked at this well. We see you spend more money in each department, except for migration and asylum. Despite the family bonus, they want to generate a budget surplus of 500 million euros. After the calculation of experts, the Family Bonus Plus costs 2 billion euros and not 1.5 billion euros a year. Furthermore, you have charged a refund from Bavaria of 800 million euros in the budget 2019, a special payment. I'll get you together. They are probably spending more than 500 million euros next year, it is more than questionable if this 800 million euros will flow, so the risk is a total of 1.3 billion euros. That makes your surplus look really pale and slip into the minus. Ladies and gentlemen will address each chapter of the budget even more precisely during the week. In addition to these lost two years, however, I would like to look at something else, namely the broken promises. It is clear to me that complete agreement on a budget here in Parliament and in a coalition is not possible, that is not to be expected, but what would have been expected is compliance with what ÖVP and FPÖ have promised in the election campaign. Mr Financiary Minister, as I am disappointed, does not concern You personally. Your competence is undisputed, and you have not yet been in office at the time of the election campaign, but at the latest you have taken responsibility with the Angelobung as Minister, and this responsibility is in keeping with what people in our country have been promised in the election campaign. This is the abolition of the cold progression, this secret handle in the money bags of all of us. Where is the effective debt brake in the constitutional order in favour of the subsequent generations? Where was the pressure on countries to fill the transparency databases in order to counteract wasteful handling of funding? Where are the investments in the future, in education, digitalisation, environmental protection, infrastructure? Where has the reform of the budget and the accounting system been required by the Court of Auditors for years, almost to say: for decades now, in order to create more transparency for taxpayers? Where can the reforms of the structure be found to bring together tasks, revenue and expenditure at one level? Where are the reforms for pension, care and health care? Where does the Federal Government take honest precautions to safeguard our rule of law? You know, I am talking about the sufficient dosage of our justice, one of the three pillars on which our violent democracy is based. We don't see all of this in the budget. Another important point is the too high expenditure in this country. Austria spends money in many areas without really checking the impact of these funds. Traditionally, our governments have a policy understanding strongly influenced by the input side, free of charge according to the motto: More money also means more performance. But that's not necessarily right. If costs are compared to performance in the various policy areas, it becomes clear from the international comparison that we have significant potential for efficiency. It turns out that many countries achieve even higher levels of performance at lower costs, such as social security, education, administration and health. The savings potential is enormous. Studies show the following: If we were as good as the best countries in Europe in these four areas, this would have a savings potential of EUR 25 billion. To raise these potential efficiency is unrealistic – this does not happen overnight – and perhaps not necessary everywhere, but if only the approach were to address these issues and exploit the potential, the reduction of the tax rate to less than 40 percent would be tangible, and that would be emphasized without deterioration of performance levels. We must therefore be very clear about the best countries, the most efficient countries in the European Union. As has been said, it is not to be expected that we in the House will be completely agreed on all the issues concerning the double budget to be decided. Such an agreement is only possible within the government in difficult negotiations and in a tough struggle with the ministers. Mr Finanzminister, after the discussions in the Committee on Budgets, I have been given the impression that you have come to the best of your knowledge and conscience. However, the result is disappointing for me; and, ladies and gentlemen here in this House, I do not have a glass ball, but I think you will decide the budget more or less exactly as it is here. They rely on the maintenance of the status quo, and this is negligent in times of change – and we are losing valuable time. However, if this week's Parliamentary deliberations were to be improved, this would be a testament to a self-confident Parliament and a vital democracy in our wonderful country. Let's try this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9533	The honourable Member's head has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9554	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the request of my colleague Werner Amon, I would like to begin by welcoming the students of the secondary school in Germany to our house, of course. – Welcome! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I was on the stage of a discussion of the industrial association a few days ago, among others with colleagues Krainer. Although it was about the capital market, it was not possible to avoid that, in this discussion, of course, we would also be in favour of taxes, state influence and all these partly ideological issues. The Minister of Finance was also there. Mr Krainer has completely correctly observed that the tax rate and, of course, the debt ratio of a country at the end of the day is an expression of the state's claim to influence the design of people's lives and to use their money for it. But then the commonness has already ended, because of course it goes very quickly into the very basic world's illustratives, when you discuss the question: How strong is the state to regulate people's lives, to take taxes on them, to provide for people in all situations of life, and to take a piece of personal responsibility out of their hands? We believe that we have too much state in this country. We believe that in this state we have too many taxes, too high taxes, we have too high debts in this country. In fact, this budget means a change in the direction of politics and the question of how we understand politics and the design of this country, namely less state, less taxes, less debt, more money for future projects as well as security, and finally and finally more for the people in that country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] At the end of the day, less state means – and this is not an easy task – to seek structural reforms – the Minister of Finance has already mentioned it – in the administration, that is to say, to spend no more money there than is necessary for the administration of this country to advance structural reforms in social security and also to question expensive prestige projects such as the 20 000 action or the employment bonus. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What is it about at the end of the day? – It is not a question of saving for the sake of saving, but it is at the end of the day to create room for future projects that this country of course needs. It has been called broadband development. More money for research and development is included in this budget, more for education, more for childcare and so on. But it is also a matter of relief for people. In my opinion, we have a tax and tax rate at the border to undermine people's ability to do so, and this is also combined with a social system, which in some places is also inclined to reward non-performance rather than those who do it. This is not supposed to be a fixture, and even no kind of perplexing, but we need more room for relief from people. I mention here only the family bonus, I call the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, the forthcoming tax reform 2020, which is being worked with intensity and high pressure, or the forthcoming increase in the minimum pensions in this country – all things that are to benefit people and not to be purely system-financing, of which no one has anything. This means a clear change in direction, less government, less taxes, less debt, more for future projects, more for security in this country, and above all more for the people in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9624	The next item is the report by Mr Fuchs, State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9645	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! I have the right to speak to Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Duplicate builder replicate. We have often discussed this in the committees. This federal government is now in office and dignity for the fourth month. We have already made numerous promises in the campaign, particularly in the area of taxes and taxes. The family bonus Plus has already been mentioned, we have introduced a reduction in unemployment insurance contributions for the low earners, and we have also reduced the VAT on accommodation revenues from 13 to 10 percent. These are great successes. These are promises we have already made within a very short time. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why it is not really true, Mrs Colleague, if you accuse us of the fact that we have still not abolished the cold progression of which we have promised in the election campaign – both parties. We're in office for the fourth month. There is a clear roadmap in the government programme. We will start a major tax reform by 2020, and we will end with the cold progression by 2022 at the end. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] A note also to the colleague Schellhorn. [[Abg. Schellhorn: I haven't talked yet!]] . I know, but because you are always interested in it, Mr Colleague, and you are from the area of tourism: Of course, we will also shorten depreciation periods and also introduce a degressive depreciation, as we have promised. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] So, now on the matter: The framework conditions for budget development are favourable, the economic upward movement continues, improvements in the labour market and also a low level of interest rates have a positive impact on the federal budget. However, this alone would not have been enough for Weitem to achieve an administrative surplus and an end to new debts for our children and grandchildren in 2019, for the first time for 65 years. Instead, the new Federal Government had to stop spending-side measures, which were decided in 2017, such as the employment bonus or the 20 000 action, and which are no longer necessary in the current good economic situation. Balanced, but quite restrictive, requirements for the different ministries have a further cost-absorbing effect on expenditure development. The consistent consolidation will create confidence and thus contribute to the economic recovery. A stable level of expenditure and a consistent reduction in the deficit are the basis for a sustainable tax structure reform 2020, which is implemented in particular by the re-codification of the Income Tax Act, EStG 2020. However, this structural tax reform should not, as often in the past, be refinanced by new taxes, but rather by savings in the system on the part of expenditure. The state saves itself and not the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We want to fundamentally reform and simplify the administration in the state, and this includes reducing double-tracks and defining clear responsibilities. Because there are always concrete examples of administrative reforms, savings in the system, I can give you a concrete example of reform from the financial administration, UG 15, in terms of the structural simplification of staff billing. There is a need to harmonise the wage tax base and the ASVG contribution base, but also the basis for DB, DZ and municipal tax, a radical absence of special and exceptional provisions and a massive reduction in the number of social security contribution groups. With regard to the additional wage costs, there will be a uniform service provider charge, which will combine DB, DZ, the share of the service provider in social security and the local tax. In the area of wage accounting, however, there will not only be substantial changes in content but also in the form of massive organisational changes. The examination of pay-related charges is currently carried out by the financial offices and local health telephones, each of which examines all taxes. In addition to this, there can still be a review of the municipal tax by auditors of the municipalities. This means that entrepreneurs are currently dealing with three different authorities: the Financial Office, the Regional Health Fund and the Magistrate. For the purposes of carrying out the examination, the Federal Tax Code currently applies to both audit organisations as procedural law. But when the examination is completed, we suddenly have two procedural regulations: For the financial offices, we continue to have the Federal Tax Code and the General Administrative Procedure Act for the local health phone. That is to say, the entrepreneurs and their consultants have to deal with two different procedural rights at the moment, although this is only a single examination. So if you want to bring an appeal here, you have to do it not only with two different procedural rights, but also with two different legal remedies, on the one hand the Bundesfinanzgericht and on the other hand the Bundesverwaltungsgericht. It is therefore not really clear why a single authority should not remove all paid taxes, distribute them to the other authorities and also examine them. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This would make a lot easier for entrepreneurs. These organisational changes require only more of a single procedural law and only more of a single appeal authority. These changes in content and organisation, which mean a long-term administrative reform in this area, could make the state much more slender in a sub-sector and would save entrepreneurs a lot of effort and, in particular, costs. As a result, there would only be a single point of contact for entrepreneurs on all questions of departure, examination and recovery of pay-related charges. These changes in content and organisation would bring about administrative reform in a sub-area from which everyone would benefit. That's saving in the system.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9731	Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9752	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. This debate is fad and it is boring. [[Cheerfulness in the list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: But you do not contribute to the fact that it will be different!]] Although we are talking about millions and billions, I nevertheless consider the debate to be a fad and boring one and would also like to tell you why. [[Abg. Bösch: We already know your sayings!]] Today, we will adopt a budget accompanying law that will amend just under 30 laws, and if I make a survey among you which laws we change here, I am sure that hardly one of you could just mention these laws. We'll do that anyway. The budget accompanying law is traditionally something where the rulers hide something; and an example is worth mentioning. We remember that the government is in great haste with the Federal Ministry Act in § 7 para. 11 Secretary-General. I understand that the crew on the government bank is not that they wanted to leave them alone, and they have brought political commissioners to the balance, at least a little bureaucratic expertise. [[Abg. Jarolim: That's what many say!]] The beauty of these Secretary-Generals is now, if you look at § 2 and above all § 4a of the Procurement Act – the members of the government will all know it – that these positions would have been written out. Did you write them out? – Of course they didn’t write them out. They wanted to provide arbitrary workers who had the right to order in the house to all the officials of the house for the ministers until they could learn something so properly. That's why we're 19 years old. On March 2, a statement of the facts sent to the prosecutor's office because, for us, the appointment of Secretary-Generals whose positions would have been written out would have resulted in the suspicion of the abuse of office according to § 302 StGB. [[Abg. Krainer: Right! Right!]] The government has already come up with it, and this is precisely the reason why Article 17 of the Budgetary Accompanying Act, which all here in the Chamber have certainly read, now retroactively amends § 82 of the Procurement Act, retroactively with 8. January 2018, because the ladies and gentlemen of the government and, obviously, here in Parliament, the representatives of the government groups have now come up with, in fact, this is not the case. There is a ministry that has described this position: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There the position of the Secretary-General was declared in conformity with the law. What is done here in the Budget Support Act by the retroactive amendment of § 82 of the Procurement Act is in reality nothing but a retroactive penalty for those ministers who have occupied the positions of the Secretary-General without tender. If we are already talking about millions and billions in the budget debate, I ask you to look again at the Federal Ministry Act, which has not been put into figures for the time being. In fact, there is – in § 9 para. 2, if I remember correctly – that the Secretary-General or ‘contract staff responsible for the management of a General Secretariat, a Section’ or similar ‘to be included in the public service relationship’ must be included at their request’! This is then no longer a matter of the authority to decide whether this person becomes an official or not, for they have been granted the right, through the Federal Ministry Act, without any call for tender, to act in an orderly manner against the entire official apparatus and to become officials themselves. This is in reality, ladies and gentlemen, the hyperlative of the lurking of the rule of law, and you are responsible for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9896	Mrs Svazek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e9917	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! To the list of mushrooms I don't lose many words now. You have, I think, to fight with your own pistondriver. That's enough you're busy with. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[He welcomed FPÖ and ÖVP as well as SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Dear Mr. Klubobmann Kern! Perhaps you can still remember your 2016 budget speech. At the time when you were German Chancellors, you asked your own government: “A little less conversation, a little more action”, please! Perhaps you also know the other lines of this Presley hit, where it says: “A little more bit, a little less bark” – a bit more bit, a bit less bell. That's really better for you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of opposition with bite you can't really see much, but I think the Federal Government can also take note of it: Dogs who call don't bite. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] As a young, enthusiastic person, who has gone into politics out of idealism, I am dismayed by what verbal slippers you afford, like recently again, when you called ÖVP and FPÖ “two B’s open”. [[Abg. Noll: You are not a true Salzburgian!]] Fortunately, we do not belong to the same party; I grant you opposition rhetoric, but I honestly tell you, as a young person, I am ashamed that you are making such a call to this entire profession with your verbal slippers. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Mr Drozda and Mr Rendi-Wagner were cheerful.]] You may not care at all about how this profession is seen as a public politician, because you are waiting for an offer from the private sector, if that may come sometime, and you are not giving any attention to how we all stand in the public. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Do you have anything to say about the matter?]] [[Abg. Drozda: Do you have anything to say to the budget?]] They run through this country calling, they're frustrated that no more cock crows after you, and carry it on the back of all of us. This is insolent, and it is not for a Member of this House. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If you continue like this, you will be sitting there for many, many years, where you are sitting now, and bored staring at your tablet. [[Abg. Erasim: Do you know your survey results?]] Families, safety, education and care – topics in which the Federal Government does not save, topics which this Federal Government accepts. With the family bonus, we finally managed to dispel the politics from the living rooms of the families and allow the families to decide for themselves what they do with the money we give them back. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of security, our Minister of the Interior is doing great work every day, and he has to make up for the failure of your government in recent years. [[towards SPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Why don't you mention Sobotka?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Yes, it may be incomprehensible to you that you do not have to save people in order to achieve a balanced budget, but that you can relieve people like that. They can be relieved by the fact that one saves where it makes sense, namely in the case of the bloated administrative equipment in this country, the bureaucratic thickness of this Republic, in double and three-track structures, which in part also you have created. What to do You from the SPÖ? – They frighten people, you run through this country, handle semi-truths and untruths, handle them by closing hospitals while your top candidate is running around in Salzburg and wants to make everything free again. Yes, we do not bring together a proper budget if the Social Democrats in this country want to make everything free again. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Your posters are not better either!]] This federal government has given a guarantee that we do not save people, but everywhere else, where money is to be collected: in the administration, in the bureaucracy, in the promotions, and that this money also comes back to the families, to the low-earners, to the middle class, to our seniors, to the patients. [[Abg. Rossmann: What are you talking about?]] We also hold this guarantee, not only in the double budget 2018/2019, but also in the following budgets. The SPÖ doesn't have to like that, but what's really important is: The Austrians must feel this in the most positive sense, and they will!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10106	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10128	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! You can talk incredibly much and quickly, but you can't say anything, Mrs. Colleague – the best example. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] Today I – I don't know how you are – have heard an incredible number of fairy tale contributions from the government parties, so with poetry and truth you don't seem to take it exactly. You speak half-truths here, you leave something away and forget to put facts on the table. I can now tell you the following four facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Number one: Since 2015 – listen carefully, Mr. Rädler! – gradually reorganises the previous government with this budget, and that is why it is now the same as it is, a rehabilitated budget. But this government can't do anything for it! – First fact. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Second fact, ladies and gentlemen: The still stable society in Austria, which has proved to be stable for decades, has been invested for decades, because investments in the social system have been made, which, as far as possible, provide a bit of quality of life, you are now destabilizing. – That’s the second fact that you’re half silent. They divide this stable society, with a cool smile of the special class. Knallhart, leghart divide society, take the little one and give the big one and don't care about people's achievements. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Women and men, ladies and gentlemen of the government who have low incomes, do not count for you anyway. There are also people in this country who make too little money to pay taxes, and for these people you have nothing left, because they don't even get 1 cent over the family bonus, which you allow and which we respect, no question. [[Abg. Neubauer: You don't belong to that!]] But if he does not apply equally to all children in that country, then that is again one of the facts you have washed up, and I think that is disrespectful to the children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Number three: Some of your promises are not even budgeted; they have also referred to previous speakers before me. 1 000 euros, say nothing, for the extension of childcare – and then a colleague from the FPÖ comes here and says that this is the case of the municipalities. Where does the money come from? – The money comes from all taxpayers – that is once the one fact – and, secondly, the money is distributed, 305 million euros in the past years, from the federal government to the countries, from the countries to the municipalities. And now, should all of a sudden, the communities alone be responsible for it?- Oh, my God! – So this is another half-truth you go home with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They also postponed the expansion of all day schools to the year 2032. The kids they need won't have anything of it. If you give up your children somewhere else, it may be your business, but the children who need this kind of care because, for example, the parents can't afford to help themselves will have exactly nothing of it. And: You finance, you don't even budget the entire abolition of the care regimen. How much do people have to fear now that you have too little money budgeted and that care rules may be reintroduced? Number four: It's not just that you don't budget things, no, you'll also cut budgets, not just the AMS budget by abolishing a wonderful action, which you say would have been a great deal of fun, although 4 400 older workers thereby got a job, a promoted job, which would have allowed them a new perspective. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, you have already reduced the already very low female budget by half a million euros. That's really bad! On the other hand, you promise 100 places for women in need, but have not budgeted them! In 2020, the Minister of Women told us, perhaps there will be money for it. Promises are given, but very little to nothing of them will also be implemented! You do not invest in the great people in this country, you invest in the large industry in this country. This may be your philosophy, but Mr. Federal Chancellor and Mr. Vice-Chancellor are not interested in it for a long time. [[Call the ÖVP: We don't need them, do we?- Oh, my God!]] I wanted to say, here's a turquoise blue ice block that doesn't care about people, unfortunately I have to say: [[pointing to the Intergovernmental Bank]] Here was a turquoise blue ice block, which has already disappeared and is completely no matter what the people with low incomes, the well-being of many children, because not all children will benefit equally. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] And the achievements of women, the great achievements of women? – At 40 years of work, if they were unemployed, if they had children if they were sick, they will never and never benefit from this increase in the minimum pension. At least it takes the billing of child rearing times, Mr. Rädler, it takes the billing of child rearing times so that at least some women have some of them. [[Abg. Rädler: Why didn't you do it?]] Another placebo you sent to the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that it is time to meet people's achievements very respectfully, to deal properly with them and to appreciate them. You don't do that – we're going to try it in return to your ice age policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10262	Mrs Dr.in Maria Theresia Niss is speaking on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10283	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the beginning the government created a budget, and it was good. [[Oje-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] We have now managed for the first time in 64 years that we will have a budget surplus in 2019. In this respect, the criticism always comes that this is not a piece of art in times of a well-running economy, so let me take a look at the past. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Blasphemy!]] In the first 20 years since the last budget surplus, from 1955 to 1974, there were only two years in which we had below 3 percent of GDP growth; in most cases growth was even more than 4 percent. And even over the next 44 years, we had only 18 years with a growth of less than 2%, nine of which were in the last 11 years and three more after the crisis in 2000. And yet, over the last 64 years, we have never managed to have a balanced budget. So we're finally looking forward to this great trend change and that we finally stop making debt, dear colleagues! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The government has already made substantial promises from electoral and government programmes in this budget, in this double budget. First: We're saving in the system. For the first time in many years, expenditure has fallen nominally, rising less strongly than inflation. We haven't done that before. Secondly, We relieve people. The tax and tax rate will fall, and this will finally bring relief into the hands of the people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Family bonus Plus: the discharge for families. We have not managed to reduce unemployment insurance contributions with low incomes and, above all, no new taxes. And with the rise in the age of two years at the age of two, another point of the government programme is implemented. We are finally able to adapt the actual to the statutory retirement age, and that is a good thing. I could list many more positive measures that have been included in the budget, such as the strong focus on future investment, but I appreciate that: Don't spend more money than you take! This is actually an old wisdom, but it has so far found little rainfall in Austrian budget planning. Thank you, Minister of State and Secretary of State, for this turnaround! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I should like to make another amendment tabled by the Members of this House to the Budgetary Accompanying Act 2018-2019 on the amendment of the General Social Security Act. Required photo on the e-card: This will be postponed by one year for technical reasons, and the cost replacement to the main association will be regulated. The Health and Food Safety Act is also amended. The obligation to pay a pharmacy of 3.5 million euros is not limited to 2022 euros, but is limited until 2019. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[11:08]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10539	The amendment has been explained in its main guidelines, is also available in writing and is thus properly submitted. Next speaker: Mr Karl Nehammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10563	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! That's a good day today, it's a budget of change. [[Abg. Jarolim: Who should believe that?]] We take so much that we will be able to spend less and invest again with the surplus. Where do we invest? – We invest in education, we invest in the families, in the children, in the parents who make a significant contribution to the growth and continuation of our society. That's a good day today, that's a good budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Even if you don't like to hear: We spend more money on security; we have more police on the street. We also spend more money on education and research. And this is an investment in jobs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, Secretary of State, thank you very much for your work, for your commitment! I know how difficult the negotiations were. The government team worked together as a whole, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, all were involved in the negotiation of the budget in such a way that it brings about a generation-righteousness, a new social justice for which this federal government stands. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Now, as I look into the ranks of the opposition, I see as so often a well-known picture: The party president of the SPÖ is not present. [[Call at the SPÖ: Where is the chancellor?]] The party president of the SPÖ has entered politics and has said that he wants to meet with one another with propriety in politics. What are the derailments in recent days, Mr Klubobmann Kern, that you are no longer here? What are the derailments? What are the attacks? What are the interrupts? What are the untruths? – That corrupts politics, we reject this style! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] All the emotion you have would be positive if you were not to continue our offer for dialogue, you would go along with the way to bring Austria to the top. What are you doing? – You turn to the newspapers with untruths, you insult this country, this republic and democracy by comparing this government with a dictatorship! That's unworthy politics! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A editor-in-chief of a large daily has today written the following: ‘Dialogue instead of stupid sayings’. – This invitation stands, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! This invitation stands, do not beat out the hand we give you, we are bringing Austria to the top together!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10640	Next item is the report by Mr Kai Jan Krainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10664	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have never experienced that anyone complains of the lack of another party president, while his own is not present. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Double farmer.]] This is for the first time, but perhaps this has been overlooked in the excitement. [[Abg. Rosary: This has often happened, you have never been careful!]] We are now discussing the budget. My colleague, Mr Kopf, referred to a discussion earlier, while keeping a lot of it right. Of course, the tax and tax rate depends primarily on what we make up here, what we jointly regulate and what everyone does in private. [[Abg. Rädler: (because of the tone of the speaker, which is calm compared to the previous speaker) don't shout like this!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] - Thank you for the note. Of course, this is true, Mr Kopf is right, and you can simply reduce the tax and tax rate by saying, for example: We privatize the health system, we close the AUVA, for example, in the event of accidents everyone has to somehow clarify the situation for himself! [[Abg. Gudenus: This is a layerer, please!]] So you can quickly reduce the tax and tax rate, but that is not the way we want to go. We believe that we need good public services, that we need a good health system, a good education system, a good pension system – and not cuts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Why have you always built so much shit in recent times?]] However, Mr Kopf is of course right to say that it is necessary to reduce the debt. Something that could be worked out in the Committee on Budgets this week is that the debt fell in 2017, nominally. The Minister of Finance himself has said that the debt has fallen by 7 or 8 billion euros, I think. So please, if you are now making a turnaround in the so-called debt policy, what do you want to threaten us with that? – That you again allowed a rise in debt, now that we have finally rehabilitated the state and have a falling debt ratio again?- Oh, my God! [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Gudenus: He was good!]] I hope not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kopf is also right when he says that taxes are too high for some in Austria, namely for those who work. Yes, we have reduced taxes and taxes in three steps over the last ten years, but they are still too high, especially in comparison to taxes, the millionaires and all those who have wealth. In other countries, the ten, twelve times as high taxes as in Austria would have to pay, while those who pursue a job pay less. [[Abg. Rosary: North Korea!]] Yes, we want to change that. We want to reduce taxes on work and end the tax gifts for millionaires! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] If we say that the budget is the policy cast in numbers, then we want to look at what that means; then a few things from the budget accompanying law that are to be adopted today, and I am not even sure if you know all of this. We have a problem with wage and social dumping. Yes, we have a problem with undeclared work because no taxes are paid by employers, so that people are paid under collective agreement, and so on. [[Abg. Rosary: I hear this for the first time today from you, colleague! That's incredible!]] For this there is punishment today, and that is a great punishment. If someone's got 100 people illegally, he'll pay a hundred times, because we don't want any black work to be worth it. We do not want it to be worthwhile to conduct wage and social dumping. What does the government do now, what do you want everyone to decide? – If 100 people are illegally employed, don't pay a hundred times, but how often? - Once! What you do is make it attractive to conduct wage and social dumping in a large-scale way, and that is what you call debureaucratisation. – No, that’s not debureaucratisation, that’s a shame for Austria, so you’re creating problems! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] We asked all the experts, the Minister and so on: Is there an international example of how to teach German with fewer teachers in the future? Do fewer teachers mean better German skills? – No one can confirm this because everyone knows that would be absurd. But that's exactly what you're doing: They reduce language support at Austrian schools by approximately 450 teachers. Will this make Austria better, will this improve the German knowledge of the students in Austria? - No! You create problems, you don't solve any problems. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Strolz and Mr Noll.]] Something I haven't experienced in this house for 15 years, these special pots and special budgets you're creating. Of course, it is in government negotiations that we increase budgets and also say clearly what the money is used for. This must be said to the Ministry of Finance by the departments, and the Ministry of Finance must report to us this to the honourable Member, to Parliament. As we were able to work out this budget week, with the individual ministers, Chancellors will receive 50 million euros of special budget – completely unclear, for which the money is to be used – plus 40 posts in addition. Mr Kneissesl, the foreign minister, is expected to receive 30 million euros – I quote – “for free.” Minister Moser is expected to obtain about 130 million euros in 2018/2019 under the title of difference between payment amount and political agreement. Mr Kunasek – this is the best formulation I’ve ever read on budgets – is supposed to be EUR 60 million under the title “Feel Free”, i.e.: Do with what you want! Mr Strache is expected to receive 15 million euros of special budget plus 40 posts. Mr Köstinger is to receive 55 million euros, also under the title of difference between political agreement and payment amount. I have not yet experienced this in Austria at any budget, not even Grasser has dared to present such a budget and such figures here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] If anyone asks, What are 60 million euros, what are 50, what are 30 million euros?, then I note: The women, the equality of women is worth just 10 million euros! Almost all ministers get a multiple and can do with what they want – Feel Free, for free withdrawal, for free, however it is called. This is not a budgetary policy, as we imagine it. Another final sentence, Mr. Strache – just there he was, now he's gone; I'm telling you anyway –: On Sunday the marathon race takes place; this is a very big holiday in Vienna. There are a lot of care stations, and I have been able to organize a care centre for several years, namely those at the Cardinal Nagl Square, 100 meters away from where Mr. Strache grew up, 100 metres away from where I went to school. At the end of the 1980s, at the beginning of the 1990s, there was also a girl who distributed water to the runners – something you can now see again on Sunday. This girl was a refugee child. She came to Austria at the age of four, and her development is a success story: She is top integrated, has studied medicine, is doing gymnastics training, is also involved in politics and is now becoming the perfect example of integration as deputy district leader in the 1. ==References== This woman has only one “disadvantage”: It has a dark skin color, and when it was presented, it has been given by the FPÖ, by politicians of the FPÖ incredible postings, racist, sexist postings, and for this the chairman of this party should finally apologise. Because she grew up right there, she played exactly where he played as a child, she grew up in the same area, in the same neighborhood – in Erdberg in Vienna – as he did, and that this child is insulted by your functionalities racist and sexist, you should be ashamed of that. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incredible!]] Mireille Ngosso becomes deputy district leader in the 1st century. District; we like that. We are pleased that we live in a country where, when children come as refugees, these professional football players can shoot for Austria goals such as Junuzović, become doctors and operate our people, and we are also pleased when they become politicians and represent our interests. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10865	The next item is Mr Johann Singer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10889	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now discussed a very, very good double budget very intensively. Lock Finally, I would like to refer to two details of the budget accompanying law relating to housing. In Austria we have a healthy mix of commercial and non-profit providers in large-volume residential construction. In particular, the members of the community fulfil the important social mission to create favourable housing for the population, and they do so well. In total, there are about two million Austrians living in non-profit housing and in order to make these rents cheap, it is necessary that we use housing funds, i.e. tax resources, in this area. Therefore, what has been generated by the public has to flow back into the supported housing and must in no way flow. Unfortunately, there have been and are always attempts to acquire nonprofit assets and then to sell profitably. We propose these attempts with a legal clarification in the framework of the budget accompanying law. I would like to address another point, namely the housing investment bank, briefly called WBIB. Also concerning these, a clarification is made in the budget accompanying law, namely that the WBIB should be embedded away from the federal government into the structures of the federal states. A few basic findings on the WBIB: Yes, the interest rate environment is currently favourable; Money is currently cheap, a lot is being built – you just need to look around – and that is good. However, interest rates will not always remain low, and then you will quickly see the benefits of the WBIB, as the WBIB guarantees a particularly favourable, low fixed interest rate over a period of 30 years. For example, if variable interest rates were to rise to 4 per cent, a non-profit rental apartment could be rented more cheaply by around 100 euros per month, i.e. 100 euros less per month. It would not be possible for me to imagine that the benefits of WBIB financing will not be used. What many also do not know, ladies and gentlemen: The WBIB is a special credit institution and as such is not subject to the strict capital formation requirements as the other banks. – Good arguments for the housing investment bank, which will also contribute in the long term to sustainable housing. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that the budget discussed will reduce the debt, I am very pleased that it is for families and for security in our budgets. Country gives more resources, I am very pleased that we are creating a change of direction, and I am looking forward to a good future for Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e10938	No one is reporting on this. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall be voting on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Budgetary Accompanying Act 2017-2018 in 91 of the Supplements. The following additional or amendments have been tabled: Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Rossmann, Mr Dipl.-Ing.in Double Bauer, Mr Krainer, Mr Colleagues, and Mr Dr.in Winzig, Mr Angerer, Mr Colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Dr Noll and a request for a separate vote by Mr Mag. Loacker. Therefore, I will first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and the request for separate vote, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Rossmann, Dipl.-Ing.in Double Bauer, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the deletion of paragraphs 2 and 3 in Article 1. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of this. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 17 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken, and I am therefore doing so. The voting papers to be used are located in the Chamber of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the designation 'Yes' and 'No'. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Article 17 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report to vote in favour of the 'yes' vote, those who oppose the 'no' vote. Please make sure it's just a vote! I now ask the author, Mrs Mag.a Steinacker, to begin with the name call; Mrs Lueger will replace them later. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11045	The vote will end. I would like to ask the House’s agents to do the counting now under the supervision of the scribes. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11083	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. I'll start the interrupted session again. I announce the results of the vote. Members cast: 175; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 108, No votes: 67. Article 17 of the draft law, as amended by the Committee's report, is therefore adopted. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amesbauer, Amon, Angerer; Baumgartner, Berger, Berlakovich, Bösch; Deimek, Diesner-wais, Dönmez; Engelberg, Eßl; Fichtinger, Fürlinger, Prince; Gahr, Gerstl, Gerstner, Gödl, Count Martin, Count Tanja, Grand Bauer, Grünberg, Gudenus; Hafenecker, Haider, Hammer, Hanger, Haubner, Hauser, Herbert, Höbart, Hofinger, Höfinger, Hörl; Jachs, Jeitler-Cincelli, Jenewein; Kainz, Kaniak, Kassinger, Kaufmann, Kirchbaumer, Kitzmüller, Klinger, Kopf, Krenn, Kugler, Kühberger, Kumpitsch, Kuss-Bergner; Lasar, Lausch, Lettenbichler, Linder, Lindinger, Lopatka, Lugar; Mahrer, Marchetti, Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Nehammer, Neubauer, Niss; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pewny, Plasolm, Povysil, Prince; Rädler, Ragger, Rauch, Riemer, Ries, Rosenberger, Rosenkranz; Schandor, Schimanek, black, black, singer, Smolle, Smodics-Neumann, Sobotka, Stark, Stefan, Steger, Steinacker, Strasser, Svazek; Tashner, Tschank; Wagner, Aquarius, Weiding, Little, Weaving, Worm; Singer, Zarits. Members voted with ‘No’: Antoni; Bacher, Bayr, Becher, Bernhard, Bißmann, Bures; Cox; Double farmer, Drozda, Duzdar; Ecker, einwallner, Erasim; Feichtinger Elisabeth, Feichtinger Klaus Uwe, Friedl; Gamon, Greiner, Griss, Gruber, Hammerschmid, Heinisch-Hosek, Hochstetter-Lackner, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Holzleitner, Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff; Jarolim; Keck, Kern, Knes, Kolba, Kollross, Kovatec, Krainer, Krisper, Krist, Kucher, Kuntzl; Laimer, Leichtfried, Lindner, Loacker, Lueger; Margreiter, Muchitsch; Noll, walnut; Plessl, Preiner; Rendi-Wagner, Rossmann; Sandler, Treasure, Scherak, Scherak, Arbitrator, Stäger, Strolz; By; sub-railers; Vogl; Wimmer, Wittmann; Yildirim, Yılmaz; Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11279	We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr.in Winzig, Mr Angerer, Mr Angerer, Mr President, concerning the insertion of new points 1a and 1b in Rule 21. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Dr.inck, Mr Angerer, Mr Cots. Whoever gives his consent, I also ask for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to the draft law, to a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Education Investment Act and the Housing Genuineness Act, including the title and entry into 90 of the Supplements. Who speaks out for the draft law? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who also gives his approval to the draft law at third reading? – This is the majority, so it is also adopted in third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and receipt in 67 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. I would ask those Members who, at the third reading, give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority, and therefore the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[11:43:48]] 4. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government template (64 and 64, B.C.E._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2018 to 2021 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 are passed (102 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (13_Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2018 (Federal Finance Act 2018 – BFG 2018) together with investments (103 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (14D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2019 (Federal Finance Act 2019 – BFG 2019) together with investments (104 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11398	This brings us to points 4 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I am speaking to the rapporteur, Mrs Angela Baumgartner, in order to make a print error correction on item 4. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11422	Ladies and gentlemen! I shall present the following print error correction to the report of the Committee on Budgets in 102 of the Supplements: The Committee's proposal is as follows: “As a result of its deliberations, the Budget Committee therefore makes the request that the National Council should give constitutional approval to the draft federal law presented by the Federal Government, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2018 to 2021 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022 (64 of the Supplements), taking into account the related amendments (Appendix).” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11444	Thank you, rapporteur. The rapporteurs on Agenda items 5 and 6 did not report. [[11:45:48]] UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery UG 17: Public service and sport
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11519	We now proceed to the negotiation of subheadings 01 to 06, 10 and 17. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. First of all, Mr. Dr. Johannes Jarolim. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11546	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers and State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! I've been in the house for a long time now, but it's by far the most important budget I've experienced in the last legislative periods. I should like to draw on the brilliant statements made by my predecessor Krainer, who has also explained this. In summary, you can say: It is an unrealistic budget, it prefers wealth, it is disadvantaged, it is worsening education, and it divides society deeply as we will experience in the next few years. [[Abg. Hauser: You split society! You're doing this!]] That's the short brand, we just don't want that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say, however, that in the past, in the last legislative period, these revenues have been generated by the government, which is the core and also the middle-rest – the middle-runner, Mr. Bundeskanzler, who, from my point of view, have been politically disposed of in a very unpleasant way in order to sit down on his chair, and who is now disappearing more or less in history here. [[Abg. Rosary: I didn't know that Mitterlehner was Federal Chancellor at all!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: He means Faymann, I think!]] I consider this to be inconvenient, I do not think it is remarkable, but that is certainly your work, Federal Chancellor. But I can tell you one more thing, that's what our clubman Schieder has already explained today, and that kind of fits in with it: It is always a bit of an attempt to make use of something not to be quite as sincere. When you look at these pictures from yesterday – they have already been shown today –: [[keeping a sheet of paper printed on the front and on the back, on which Bundeskanzler Kurz and Vorarlberger Landeshaufmann Wallner, sitting at a table, can be seen in front of another picture hung on the wall]] There is a photo of Mr. Federal Chancellor with Mr. Wallner, which shows in the background the image of a lady who smokes; in the media a beautiful picture, a landscape picture, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hauser and Mr Mölzer]] There is also an ÖVP homepage on which it is called Yes to honesty, and you might be able to put it online as a flagship there. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] But I wonder, Federal Chancellor, if you do not like to see the popular desire that opens up in such small things as a cigarette-smoothing woman – even if you do not like to see it now – if you form such things there, what do you do in the case of more essential things? What are we supposed to be afraid of? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] It is precisely on the question of security that we have now been pre-existed. In the election campaign with your colleagues on the part of the FPÖ, you have put the subject of security to the very foreground: It needs more security, we need to do more for security! – And now what do we see in the budget? – Justice is completely ruined, ladies and gentlemen, and today, in 10 minutes, at 12 o’clock, in the Palace of Justice, there is a protest of judges, prosecutors, Supreme Court Presidents – I think the last time it was the case among Bohemians – which cannot be assumed by God that they are left-left or radicals and revolutionaries. [[Abg. Rädler: Can you go?]] This is your work. What do you have to represent here? – They have deleted from the judicial system, which is in force in all joints, 42 posts, 42 judges and prosecutors. [[Abg. Deimek: Do you really believe that? Do you really believe that? ...Plaedoyer!]] They have deleted 216 law firms, ladies and gentlemen, these are those who are supposed to do the work for the judges. They're supposed to do it themselves, ladies and gentlemen. What Expects You're there, aren't you? You have saved the educational budget, i.e. by 40 percent, ladies and gentlemen, this is an absolute scandal, and you have reduced the digitisation of 42 million euros to 29 million euros. That is, the electronic act in which citizens should be able to understand is no longer available, the analysis tools for large-scale criminal proceedings are not coming – that is a warm gift for crime – and you have also taken in many other things that are insane; You have almost completely ignored that we have an increase in disputed procedures by 50 percent. We've rarely experienced that. The judges will give you a clear answer, the citizens outside will also give you. Mr. Vice-Chancellor Strache, we have to say, has understood this in the budget negotiations, he has also signaled us an improvement, he has also granted it, but there are no staff positions to do so, because Mr. Bundeskanzler Kurz has fallen into his arms there. I very much regret this, Mr Vice-Chancellor; I must say that you have made it clear that you want to support it. By the way, the Minister of Justice has also expressed it, and all the colleagues who were in the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights have done nothing but help it. 3 hours after the Committee on Justice's debate on the budget, the Minister was then in the hospital, a tragic development; I hope he returns, I hope he will take up the fight again, because it is so certainly not possible to leave it. Security was your topic in the election campaign, you have brought uncertainty to us – people will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11694	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Wolfgang Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11718	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte, Mrs. Volksanwälter! President of the Court of Auditors! We are now discussing the chapter of the supreme institutions, that is Parliament, that is, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court, and here we are discussing the Federal Chancellery. That is why, Mr Jarolim, I am sorry, under your dignity what you have just organized. [[Abg. Rosary: Well! Come on!]] [[Abg. Bösch: That's it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] That wasn't what we could have expected. Justice only comes in three chapters later, then you can get out again. So to stick to the parliamentary timetable would be something, Mr Jarolim. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I speak of the supreme organs, it is always about separation of violence; the most important chapter in democracy is separation of violence. The first thing I want to highlight is Parliament, Parliament as an important instrument of control over the executive on the one hand, and as an instrument of legislation on the other. It is therefore so good that there have been four parties here that want to strengthen Parliament accordingly. I am particularly grateful to the opposition, the SPÖ, which is ready to strengthen Parliament, and the NEOS, who are also willing to strengthen Parliament, in the sense that we support Parliament's public work on the one hand, at events for the commemorative year, at events such as women's elections – we are celebrating women's right to vote in the near future and we are celebrating 100 years of Republic in the near future. To do this, we also need appropriate publicity – thank you very much. On the other hand, we also use the money for Parliament for Members, not simply to consume it, but to strengthen it in its activities as regards anti-corruption measures, so that it cannot be influenced by Members so that they can get the appropriate deliberations by the Parliament's management. We also use the money in the field of control by reserveing more money for committee of inquiry. It is necessary for Parliament to receive this money so that parliamentary control of the executive, says: the government, is also possible. [[Abg. Rosary: Why does that not want the list of mushrooms?]] Last point: We also need money for Parliament's TV. There were funny comments, yes; but if we look at the legal background, we see how important it is. At present, Members' speeches are only available on the TV library, and in the future they should be available here too. Why is that necessary? – If we put our speeches online for more than seven days through social media, that would mean that we violate the rights of the ORF under copyright law. It is therefore necessary for us to be able to send them as our own contribution. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellery at the head of the Executive is always a model for a government, and therefore the Federal Chancellor's Cabinet has started as the first: Stop all contracts of employment that were ever present in cabinets in the Federal Chancellery! In the previous government, there were six contracts of employment in the Socialist Federal Chancellor, which will no longer be available in the future. This saves the Republic 44 000 euros per month. We reduce at the top and are therefore a model. Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler, for this clear attitude. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We not only save on staff costs, we also reduce representation costs. These have been increased by the then Federal Chancellor from almost 300 000 to 454,000 euros in 2016 and 2017. We will reduce them again by 30 percent in the future, that is, we will make the cabinet smaller, we will reduce the representation costs, and we will save ourselves the high cost of the employment loan contracts. – Thank you very much for the executive. If I speak of separation from violence, I still have a point regarding the judicial: I would like to highlight the legislative procedures. Last year, 2017, there were 189 party applications for legal proceedings, saying: It was examined whether the laws we passed were also in accordance with the Constitution. All two of them were called unconstitutional. This is a sign of our quality, which is also a sign of control by the Constitutional Court. – In this sense, I thank you very much and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11799	The next item is the speech by Mr Nikolaus Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11820	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary – welcome takes longer today! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Dear People's Lawyers! Mr Finanzminister, briefly to your previous speech, because I have noticed this several times: They always look in the hall and say: They've been blaming the people to get rid of them. You say you played this left-hand pocket-right game. – I may need to remind you: Their predecessors, Grassers, Molterers, Pröll, Fekter, Spindelegger, Schelling, were already all ÖVP members; if, then they played this left-hand pocket-right game and pre-glowed something, but it certainly wasn't us. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I am glad, however, if we do not do it anymore, I will in principle give you the right. Mr Gerstl has already mentioned this: We are talking here about many different breakdowns. An important part is the federal legislation, the money for Parliament. I also believe that we have achieved a compromise here that strengthens Parliament, and you know very well that Parliament's work is very important to me and that I will always work for it. But we also know that there are even better possibilities than what we have done now. It is a good step, but there are better possibilities. We have visited the German Bundestag together with the President of the National Council, and especially the German Bundestag is an example when it comes to the scientific service, through which completely non-party scientific expertise is provided, because it is also about the fact that as Parliament we can compensate for the knowledge that the government has logically in many areas. That's something we're going to do in the future, I think, much more, and we should go there, too, at the German Bundestag. We are talking about the budget for the People's Procuratorate, the Parliamentary budget, the Supreme Courts, and, of course, Mr Gerstl, what Mr Jarolim has referred to is already understandable, at least in practice, because it is a fundamental question. It is about how we deal with the rule of law in Austria, and for many years, especially in the case of the Supreme Courts, we have repeatedly had the problem that the budget has just ended. And we've got it. Similar now belongs again: It is still going on, Mrs Bierlein has told us. President Thienel said it was even less likely. This is precisely this fundamental question, which has also been raised in connection with the courts; the judges are of course rightly protesting, because it is a matter of principle. And if we start to save where it is so important, namely on the rule of law, then in principle we can already think about how seriously we take the whole thing. If we start to save on one of the essential conditions of democracy, namely the rule of law, we have a serious problem from my point of view. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] Mr Gerstl, you have said that the Federal Chancellor's Office is exemplary in budget creation. – I see this naturally, at least in parts, a little different. On the question of these special budgets: The Federal Chancellor has said in the Committee what he intends to use it for. In the sense of budgetary truth and transparency, it would have been more logical for me to put the posts into the budget. I am now confident that the funds will also be used for this; I hope it is. I'm sluggish about why you can't prove it. I would expect that in connection with the budget. One last point, because I always hear, we want to save in the system – Mr Nehammer said that in the Constitutional Committee, and it is such a basic mantra of this government: we save in the system –: This is a funny thing in connection with the promotion of the parties, which we are willing to discuss only on Friday, namely the suspension of the valorization of the promotion of the party, but it is already a fundamental question. As NEOS, we would like to see more financial resources for Parliament – just as we will decide today or in the next few days – but also a reduction in party funding. Mr Nehammer has explained to me that we want to save in the system, and that is why Valorization will be suspended for a year now. First: It is forgotten to say that valorization is only exposed at the federal level and is not affected by the fat party funding in the federal states. Secondly, It is unthinkable to save in the system, once you suspend something, because you can change the system, the classification, that you constantly valorize and increase, only if you abolish the valorization; that is, this in-system space that you display in this context is nothing but a cheaper pocket player trick. If you really want to save in the system, then finally reduce the party promotion and stop valorizing! That's really saving in the system, and not that cheap dirt you're selling to the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11902	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Harald Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11926	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Mr State Secretary! Dear Representatives of the Supreme Institutions! I may now refer briefly to colleagues of Scherak; he has just spoken about the impossibility of saving in the system when saving on the system. It was not said that you are making any reduction in the long run. Even if one makes a reduction once or does not perform an increase, it is also saved in the system and therefore saved in the system. So I don't think so – I'm sorry, I can think that even if that's not possible for you. [[Abg. Scherak: Well, it's not because the system...!]] They meant to change the system. But it is also saved in the system if once – and this is debated on Friday – the increase in party funding at the federal level, nothing else can be decided here; They criticize that it does not happen at country level – suspended. I think that is even a very good step to show that we are not doing this valorization. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Similar is the issue of sparing in the top organs. Mr Scherak has now said that it is a problem if the rule of law no longer works – that is not a question, that is very important, that access to justice must work, that justice must work. We have, however, noted in the debates on the highest institutions – we are talking primarily about the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court – that there have been slight increases in staff in recent times, and secondly, the President and the President have said quite clearly to us: It's okay. We asked specifically: What about the financial resources, the tasks can be fulfilled? One has to say that the Constitutional Court has recently extended its tasks or that they have been extended, on the one hand, as regards the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court in connection with the caselaw, and on the other hand, with regard to the examination of applications relating to investigation committees – so the Constitutional Court has an even greater effort. The issue of asylum, which is always the most important point in the process, is always the subject of asylum. This is particularly true of the Administrative Court. There is a very strong increase: 43 percent more cases in 2017 and 15 percent more in 2018. This concerns practically only the asylum applications that come to the Administrative Court, so in reality there is the big problem. But even that's where the administrative court says: Yes, we will deal with the given budget and with the staff until 2019. It is a good approach to say that you don't have any more money at all – I suppose that's also a typical NEOS approach, at least I thought so far – and not primarily to demand more money, but to see if what you have to do with the existing financial resources is going to be done; then, of course, you will have to restructure internally and, of course, also accept this challenge. But if it comes out, you will not only be able to do so because it sounds better to ask for more money or to get more money, but only in the necessary framework, and that is what we do, and that is what the highest courts also confirm us. I think that's exactly the right way. If you just want to be economical or want to save in the system, you also have to do it, and this makes the highest courts happy, so this is a very useful approach. The strengthening of Parliament, the federal legislation, has already been mentioned. I think this is very important. I think that perhaps there should be even more possible in the future, because it is indeed the case that there is a very strong imbalance between Parliament on the one hand and the ministries on the other, with regard to the possibility of taking legislative measures and so on. We have already discussed this in the past, but it is now, at least here, a step in the right direction, that one recognizes the fact that one says, yes, one wants the clubs to act in their possibilities, and also strengthen in terms of public relations. Of course, this is always an important point. I therefore see in this budget that it is ensured that the highest courts function and that parliamentaryism can develop further – that is to say, very positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11969	Next speaker: Mr Dr Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e11990	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A particularly sophisticated method of saving in the system has been achieved by the government in connection with the budget for the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has been able to pay 3.6 million euros through savings and good economies, which is the reserve. A reserve, we know, is primarily used to maintain the operation if the economic situation becomes uncomfortable. Now, as we know, the economic situation is more comfortable, but the Court of Auditors must resolve a little less than half of this deposit this year and a little more than half the next year. This means that it will no longer have any reserves in 2020, and that, in turn, means that, in order to maintain the holding, it will be necessary to do so properly by 2020 at the latest. Madam President, at my request in the committee, I said: 2.3 million euros. Well, there can never be saved in the system, but then there are no reserves anymore, and that in turn means that there must not be any economically untiring times on us. Let's hope for the best! In any case, this is saving in the system – in fact, a short-sighted and quite shield-bourgeois budgeting. Now the Court of Auditors is an instrument of Parliament, and we could actually do anything to prevent budgeting. But what is Parliament doing the other way round? – It does not save itself, and the Court of Auditors, which is an instrument of Parliament, does not have the opportunity to work fully. Parliament, on the other hand, is financing its expenses; that is, we are giving ourselves. We are the only group against it, all others are in favour of supporting ourselves properly and better than before. This is called strengthening Parliament. We would have been in favour of strengthening Parliament, and we have made very concrete and meaningful proposals. But now it's different. Now, for example, it is called strengthening Parliament! – the fees of MEPs increased by 25 percent. That's where I ask you: Who of you – of those who have already been Members – has not yet come to terms with the fees? – This is a suggestive question, because I have been in Parliament for 14 years, and I can tell you that I have never been able to complain about it before. That's all right, and I'm always good at... Come on. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] – I know I’m probably doing too little, and you need more because you can do it better, of course, these are the rhetorical flakes, already clear. I'm telling you, that's really unnecessary! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] It is also unnecessary that we approve additional trainings, for example, in order to avoid somehow getting into the suspicion of corruption cases. To that end, I say: These trainings should actually be financed by the party academies or by the actually budgeted club funding we all receive; each club has money for exactly such purposes. In addition, additional employees, of course, are more important for the larger parties than for the smaller ones. I have repeatedly told you that if – and not because I am in a small party myself, but only logically – the smaller parties need more work, because they have much more tasks that Members alone cannot handle. Well, the big parties, where much in addition to every single area that is to be negotiated, are three or four times occupied, also need a lot, much more employees. It's a logic of its own. I could now tell you a lot about saving the system, too, that the President of the National Council – unfortunately he is not here now – wants to have another 600 000 euros on his 1.4 million euros budget, which he already has for events. Now I can tell you from the cultural company that there are organisations and associations that are going through with 120 000 euros for events including the payment of employees and make a hundred different events a year. But this is something that in Parliament outside this budget is guaranteed by the employees anyway. I cannot help but consider whether the President of the National Council would like to be something like a principal, a theatre director who likes to programme plays that he likes to order, as he did as Minister of the Interior, and for that I have little understanding. He should rather go to Lower Austria and ask the head of state if in St. Pölten a place would be free as an intentionant of the theatre. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] So I can also blame the other two opposition parties in this context for nothing but greed. Otherwise, I cannot explain why these expenditures should be more important than those of the Court of Auditors, which is our most important instrument of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12066	Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurztzus has spoken. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12091	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Estimated President of the Court of Auditors and Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome the students who are here today and follow the discussion in Parliament – voluntarily or perhaps also involuntarily, but nevertheless. I am glad that you are here and take a picture of the debate on the budget here in the House! I don't think what's surprising is that the opposition criticizes the budget. I have to admit honestly, if that were not the case, we would have to worry about our democracy very slowly, but you calmed us down, we don't have to. You are of course taking advantage of the opportunity to criticise this budget, to see it from your perspective and, of course, to be profiled by the debate. What makes me very happy about this budget, and I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, is that it has definitely started a change of course. We spent more than 60 years in Austria than we took. We have made debts in the Republic of Austria for over 60 years, whether the economy was just good or bad. One thing was always the same: In the end, we spent more than we took. I am glad that the Minister of Finance, together with all the government's ministers, has ensured that in 2018 and also in 2019 2.5 billion euros are saved per year and that it is thus possible for the first time after over 60 years to spend less than we take, i.e. to achieve an administrative surplus. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It has been said in many speeches about social justice before. I would like to stress at this point that the most unsocial thing that policy can do is debt, not only because it goes at the expense of the next generation, but also especially because overindebtedness always leads to saving especially among the poorest of the poor. We have experienced in Greece the situation that the debt ratio has reached 180 percent of GDP. And what happened? – It has not hit the great or the top earners, it has especially hit the poorest of the poor. Pensions were reduced, social benefits were reduced, and sickness benefits were reduced by 30 percent. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Kolba.]] It was the social weak and the poorest of the poor who first paid for it when debt policy increased to the immeasurable. That is exactly what we do not want, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore a great deal of thanks to the Minister for Finance that he is going another way here in Austria, that he has started a change of course. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you even know what you're talking about?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Whether you see the budget positively or not, you have to admit one thing: We're doing exactly what we promised in the election campaign. We are implementing exactly what we have been elected for. We invest – as we promised in the election campaign – more in safety, education and care. We do not make new debts, and we reduce the tax burden for working people. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Rossmann.]] We have already launched in the first 100 days that we implement the family bonus: 1 500 euros of tax relief for working people who have children, per child, the greatest relief for families that have ever given it in this Republic – I am glad that we have set this up in the first 100 days. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The second major discharge measure is a relief for small incomes. Why? – Because the people we want to relieve in particular. [[Abg. Rossmann:... that's not true again, Mr. Federal Chancellor!]] Our focus is on families, small and medium-sized incomes. I am glad that, with the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions for small incomes below EUR 1 950 gross, we have achieved a discharge which has also been required by other parties in the past. [[Abg. Rossmann: You know exactly that's not true!]] The difference is, we're not just demanding it, we're putting it into practice! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, saving and achieving a balanced budget is not a self-evident. It will bring us the scope we need to make further discharges possible from 2020 onwards. That is what we promised in the election campaign, and that is exactly what we will implement. I am now allowed to lose a few words about the UG 10, i.e. to my area of competence in the Federal Chancellery. You know, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, the novelle to the Federal Ministry Act has brought many changes: the Federal Administrative Court, the Constitutional Service, Data Protection, Public Service, Digitalization have migrated from the Federal Chancellor's Office to other departments, and at the same time the EU's agendas, the affairs of women, youth and family and other topics have been added to the Federal Chancellor's Office. A budget of 343 million euros will be generated for 2018 and a budget of 311 million euros for 2019. One of the major budget items is the EU Presidency with 43 million euros in 2018. In addition, we have tried to act very sparingly in the Federal Chancellor's Office and also to counteract some areas in which there have been wrong developments in the past. I am glad that, for example, we could agree together – the two ministers in the Federal Chancellery and I – that there should be no employment contracts in the Federal Chancellery, in the cabinets. In the past, there have been numerous employment loans with social democracy, with the social democratic economy, especially in the Federal Chancellor's cabinet. We have reversed this and ended these employment contracts in the cabins. This brings massive savings in the Federal Chancellery, for example in my cabinet a savings of 44 000 euros per month compared to my predecessor. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, we have also decided to return, for example, the representation expenses to the level that was common among Werner Faymann, and the increases that took place last year to reverse. This and many other steps are measures we are taking to save in the system, to become slimmer in the public service. Thus, only every third office in the Federal Chancellery and in the other resorts will be re-occupied so that we can ensure slim, efficient management, more economical handling of taxpayers' money, achieve a balanced budget and at the same time reduce the tax burden on working people. That is what we have done, we have been elected to do, and now we are implementing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12198	Mr Hermann Gahr has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12222	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The 2018/2019 budget is a budget of change, a budget of responsibility and a budget of reliability, and for this I can thank our Minister of State and his State. We have a turnaround here. Debt policy will end without new taxes. We do not make savings at the expense of people and at the expense of the next generations, but – our Federal Chancellor has just carried it out – we save 2.5 billion euros in the system. We save on state subsidies, and we save on personnel costs. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl mentioned the budget for the Court of Auditors in 2020. This will be discussed, Mr Zinggl, if it becomes due. Today we are discussing the budget for 2018 and 2019, and this is a stable budget as regards the work of the Austrian Court of Auditors. As far as we are concerned, Mr Zinggl, we have to see this from two sides: on the one hand, as a Member of Vienna, than one naturally has less travel expenses and less budget costs, on the other hand, I can also ask for an understanding here that all Members from the regions have simply higher costs in this regard – and I think it is fair and fair that we can also pay for these costs. [[Abg. Loacker: I don't come from Vienna either, I come from the country!]] – Commissioner from the country, yes, perhaps you have other costs, then you may also be able to dispute that. But I think we need a few minor improvements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the double budget for 2018 and 2019, the Court of Auditors has available 33.5 million euros for 2018 and 34.9 million euros for 2019. As a result, 0.04% of the total budget is available to the Court of Auditors as a whole for its work. Growths compared with previous years are being used specifically in the field of index adaptations in the field of personnel and property expenditure, second in the case of necessary post-employment, and thirdly, the Court of Auditors is investing in data security and IT. Reserves will be dissolved for this purpose and the reserves will be transferred and continued to 2020. With this budget, the Court of Auditors can carry out its tasks – auditing and consulting, up to various special tasks. I believe that the Court of Auditors will have a stable and decent budget for 2018 and 2019. We have currently occupied 277 planning posts in the Court of Auditors, and in the future 288 planning posts will be occupied. Madam President Kraker has also focused on citizens. For example, there are 100 suggestions for the Court of Auditors on public projects directly from citizens. In 2019 there will be a new homepage. Finally, we can say that the present double budget can carry out the tasks. The Austrian Court of Auditors has high standards in international comparison, does good work and can guarantee this with this budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12265	The next item is Mrs Angela Lueger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12289	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I find it exciting that the Federal Chancellor is here and says that this has been the first budget for 60 years to spend less than you take. But it is exciting that in the last 30 years, there have been black finance ministers in 30 years of it. [[Abg. Schrangl: Rudolf Edlinger?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It may therefore be possible to look at one's own ranks on this issue. [[Abg. Listen: You don't have it with numbers! 30 years?- Oh, my God!]] But I would like to speak to UG 17 now – the UG 17 is nothing but the public service. If I look at the numbers here, Mr. Colleague, I have to say: One is always talking about the debt, but I would like to hear something about the assets facing it. To this end, I would like to give you the following figures: It's 81.9 billion euros in debt, yes, but it's also large-scale public assets – and that's far more than debt is available. Therefore, in order to have a proven balance, you also need to look at both of them in this way. – By the way, this is from the Austrian statistics and we have not come to mind. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: (in the direction of State Secretary Fuchs) Hubert! And the wealth's throwing off extremely high interest rates, huh?]] But now to the public service and to the sport: There 161 million euros are available for 2018 and 165 million euros for 2019. By the year 2022, as we are now hearing, there are 3 191 new planning sites, which I think are very unevenly distributed, because although we have a plus with the police for internal security – yes, quite important – but a great minus – my colleague Jarolim has already said it – with the justice, and one also saves on the financial administration. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been shown that, especially in the financial administration, those colleagues who are employed in large-scale business audits are paying up to twelve times their salary – up to twelve times! I therefore think that this is the wrong approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, however, I would like to say something about the discussion on planning posts and staff: Plans, that's a number game on the paper. Plans are distributed on paper. So, and now, according to this budget and also according to what is planned by 2022, there is a plus of 3,000 planning points. On the other hand, however, there is a staffing position which has dropped by more than 8 800 employees from 2010 to 2019. How's that going? Mr Vice-Chancellor, you have said that you want a reduction in staff, you want to save on officials, you want an efficient administration, and even the black president of the official union has told you to re-occupy only every third release, that is completely non-reality. You then have to save on quality, and that is, I think, something you certainly do not want. If you now say that we need to simplify the decision-making structures and strengthen transparency, I wonder why you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and the chancellor now have more at once 166 planning points, make a complete reconstruction in their own premises and both of them somewhere a basket money – you get of only 15 million euros, the Chancellor at a level of 51 million euros. [[Vice Chancellor Street: That's where you have wrong numbers!]] This 66 million euros could be used beautifully for education, for work, for pensions, health and care. And the turnaround, yes, it is given: away from the poor, to the rich!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12389	Next, Mrs Petra Steger speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12413	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Sport in Austria: over the past few years, far too much disdained, underestimated and treated in a stepmotherly manner, an undesirable attachment to the defence of the state. – This and no other way, one can sum up the sports policy of the past years under socialist leadership. But with that, thank God is finally finished. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this budget of 129 million euros, with this government programme, the most extensive sport ever seen, with this Minister of Sports, the long-awaited turn in Austrian sports policy was finally launched. Instead of being an attachment, the sport has, as it were, become the head of the Vice-Chancellor's Office – with someone who is very likely to appreciate the importance of the sport. Sport has much more importance than most believe, because sports affects everyone in Austria in some form: Either you did sports yourself, you run sports, you have a family member who does sports, you volunteer in clubs and associations, or you're just a fan of a team. Or there is an indirect impact on the cost of the health system, because each euro invested in sports saves 5 euros in sickness costs. Since there is now the first generation living shorter than their parents, it is necessary that there is at last more investment there. Sports is also a billion-dollar business. It is a huge tourism factor with an annual positive effect of over 217 million euros. Sports successes and major sporting events have an incredible radiance far beyond the Austrian borders, and as a cross-sectional matter, sport has a very positive effect on many areas of life. But instead of collecting this potential, instead of realizing it, there has only been a standstill and a lack of reform in recent years. What has been achieved in sport in the last ten years under socialist leadership? – Inflated structures have been achieved, structures with countless associations, associations, organisations where everyone has long lost the overview, structures that are urgently reduced. Everyone knows that in sport, the main problem is that the money doesn't come from the sportsman because it's sluggishing into these structures. Moreover, due to lack of transparency, there is no targeted support – with double funding, with multiple funding – with no clear strategy of support. There have also been several sports scandals in recent years under SPÖ leadership – Multiversum keyword, Schladming keyword. There was also a targeted disassembly of the section Sport, where you have outsourced everything you can in order not to have any responsibility and work. What happened last year was then even the crowning. Before the election, a Federal Sports Promotion Act 2017 was quickly implemented, so that Federal Minister Doskozil could quickly put up with some reform and attach it to the flags, which, ladies and gentlemen, did not, however, bring any improvement to the sport. And just before he left, when he knew he was going to Burgenland, he quickly made a few arbitrary payment promises, which also partially tied our hands to us in this budget. In short, there are a number of old loads to be rehabilitated and those that must be prepared by this government, by our Minister for Sport. However, ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing is that much of the general sport promotion has not been paid out and so countless projects have not been implemented in recent years. That means that it was budgeted much more for the sport, then it was deleted, and then this deletion was sold as a sparing. 110 million euros of deposits have been created – money that lacks sports today. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a scandal. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kühberger.]] In addition to that, according to § 20 gambling law, there should have been a valorization of the special sports equipment – that is the 80 million euros – and also the There was no, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is a scandal. I can assure you that I can promise that in the next few months all this will be carefully examined and updated, what will happen to this money. In addition to these changes, there are many other financial changes that we will be addressing. We will ensure that in future not only the lotteries, but also the online betting providers will have to pay a tax on sport. This would bring sport a rich plus in millions. We will reduce VAT on those charges that associations and associations pay for the use of sports equipment to 10 percent, as is already the case in many other EU countries. We will also ensure that in the future sports sponsorship to associations and associations can be tax-deductible in comparison to culture and also to disabled sports. In addition to these financial changes, there will also be a comprehensive, comprehensive sports strategy for the first time – a framework that covers all areas of sport promotion, from broadband to top-level sports to health sports, at all levels of administration, from the municipality to the state level to the federal government. There's never been that before. And we will also invest meaningfully in and promote women's sports for the first time – in contrast to SPÖ, which for many years has been committed to equality between women, but in sport not a single finger has curved. We will also act there – unlike you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. Austria is not yet a sports nation – I stress: still – but it can become one at any time. For the first time I see light at the end of the tunnel: I see a good budget as the basis for the next steps. I see an excellent government programme with sensible and good measures that are urgently needed. And above all, I finally see a minister – with an excellent team in the background – who not only speaks but also actually implements.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12500	Mrs Irmgard Grisszu will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12525	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! For a government that – we have just heard from the Federal Chancellor – wants to have a slim administration, a slim public service, the Court of Auditors is an indispensable support, because the Court of Auditors checks the efficiency and effectiveness of the entire state economy. He checks whether the right things are done and whether things are done properly. The Court of Auditors is therefore a control body and at the same time has an important advisory function. It would therefore be assumed that a government that has taken on major reform projects also has a very strong interest in providing the Court of Auditors with even better, so that the Court of Auditors can carry out its important control task even more effectively, even more effectively, and can also take a stand as a consultant to the government and, of course, to Parliament. But a look into the budget teaches a better person, he is disillusioning: Although the Court of Auditors will receive EUR 1.72 million in 2018 and EUR 1.4 million in 2019, it will not be able to finance the recruitment of all posts in the Court of Auditors. President. — I call the Group of the Dentin of the Court of Auditors has said in the Committee that it will be possible to finance 86% of the posts. It must now be assumed that the bodies listed in the establishment plan are not included as fantasy figures, but rather that they reflect a need that exists in the Court of Auditors. It must also be taken into account that in recent years, the Court of Auditors has been entrusted with highly personalised new tasks: Audit tasks under the Media Transparency Act and according to the Party Act. In the case of these audit tasks, the legal framework conditions are not such that the audit by the Court of Auditors actually brings what is meant by the laws to create transparency in the important area of party financing and in the important relations between policy and media. Therefore, there are two things that need to be: The Court of Auditors needs better legal framework in these areas – we have already made a request in this respect – and sufficient resources are needed to enable the Court of Auditors to actually occupy its posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12564	Next, Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12588	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about People's Procuratorate. As an independent control body, the public prosecutor has the task of examining maladministration in the administration, since 2012 it has also been responsible for the protection and promotion of human rights, and since 2017, it has also been responsible for the implementation of the Home Victim Pension Act. The public prosecutorship is of great importance as a legal protection institution for our people, because it offers low level of access and has a high level of competence. This is evident in the fact that last year more than 20,000 citizens brought their concerns, their difficulties with the authorities and the abuses they suspected in the administration to the public prosecutors. This has increased compared with previous years. A total of 10 333 test procedures were initiated. The public prosecutorship, of course, seeks to become even more familiar, especially in the area of young people and women, so that they can become more aware of them. Within the framework of its role as the protection of human rights, the Public Prosecutor's Office in Austria controls some 4,000 institutions in which people with disabilities, but also those with no disabilities are accommodated. I would like to thank you very much for the special report delivered by the Public Prosecutor's Office on children and young people in public institutions, because such reports encourage improvements. On the basis of a decision of the National Council, in 2017, the People's Procuratorate set up the Independent Pension Commission for the compensation of home victims and is responsible for doing so – it has been very active up to now – that the victims receive compensation. The People's Procuratorate always reports on all these tasks here in the National Council and also in the Federal Council. The public prosecutor's budget reflects their tasks and also correlates with the public prosecutor's objectives. The focus of expenditure is, of course, 60 percent in the personnel sector. There are Compared to 2017 a plus of payouts amounting to EUR 0.843 million, due to the Home Victim Pension Act and the salary increases. In concrete terms, 11.48 million euros are available to the Public Prosecutor's Office in 2018 and 11.36 million euros in 2019. There is an additional compensation for 2018 and 2019 in connection with the Home Victim Pension Act. As an ÖVP interlocutor for the People's Procuratorship, I would like to thank the people's lawyers – who are here today – and their employees for their work, for they are those who listen to the people and do great work for our people. – Thank you very much for that and all the good for the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12634	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Alfred Noll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12655	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! So that you do not generate to acquire for yourself other means at a time when, as you claim, saving is the highest virtue of government policy, is really bizarre. [[Congratulations with list Pilz, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: A meaningful use of money!]] You do not need these funds, but you want them, you want to raise the club and you want to increase the representation possibilities for the President here in the house. In fact – and now I come to the topic of top organs in this country – Madam President Bierlein and President Thienel are not particularly fighting people. Therefore, on request and demand, they have made rather silent statements: Yeah, we're going through with what we've got. If you talk to them after the committee meeting, you can easily find out that it burns there. You have written in the government programme that the acceleration of procedures is a very essential concern, and you have said and repeatedly demonstrated that, especially in asylum matters, cases should be handled much faster. [[Abg. Höbart: Absolutely, yes! Important!]] What would be closer than to the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court to strengthen resources in such a way – perhaps only temporarily – that this acceleration can be realized? But you don't. What you do instead is to buy more money for yourself. Instead of using the Constitutional Court instead of the three previous scientific staff, for example, four people are employed at the Administrative Court for more temporary staff, you want to have more money yourself. That's just cynical at a time when you're undisputed, oh, how economical we have to be. [[Abg. Jarolim: Yes!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12722	Mr Heinz-Christian Strachege has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e12747	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Dear People's Lawyers! Ladies and gentlemen! As a few terms like Mr Jarolim's expression today have already fallen on our part, Mr Jarolim, I would suggest a little self-reflection, because that was not necessarily what you gave of yourself. [[Abg. Wittmann: He's right!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: I tried hard!]] [[Abg. Wittmann: He's right!]] It seems that social democracy is already a bit offended that it has no longer been confirmed as a Chancellor's Party, but has been elected at the last National Council election. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If you go to the content, you have to remember that others talk, but we act, and we act very concretely. At the beginning, I would just like to hold on in general – because this was also the subject today – yes, the tax relief for families has been a heart concern for us liberals over 13 years. I do not know how many attempts we have made here in the House to finally implement this tax relief for families. For 13 years, God’s displeasure has been rejected by previous governments, and all requests have been defiled. Now comes the biggest tax relief for families of the Second Republic, and that is good and right. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is always noted that we do not treat families with children fairly. Family and child benefits are of course the same for all children, but when it comes to tax relief, of course you have to place where taxes are paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda]] This is not possible otherwise, and this is also an essential and important step for all working people in this country, who earn more than EUR 1 050 per month, and that is not much. That's not a millionaire. The Socialists have produced themselves today and said this concerns the millionaires. No, with a monthly income of EUR 1,050, you're not a millionaire. It is good that we relieve these people of up to 1,500 euros per child per year. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The vast majority of working people today earn their money as full-time workers in this segment. Moreover, people who do not pay taxes will not forget, but in the sense of social fairness and justice, we ensure that those who are only slightly employed and do not pay taxes, because they do not have full-time employment, receive a relief of up to 750 euros a year. This is fair and fair, and it is important to work it out. Even if in the lower and middle levels of incomes we guarantee a relief from unemployment insurance, I hear intercessions repeatedly, I do not agree. It is true, of course, because up to a net income of EUR 1 100 per month, you are fortunately not paying unemployment insurance today, and thanks to us no longer up to a monthly net income of EUR 1 600, or you experience flattening and reduction. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] It relieves working people. These are not millionaires; on the contrary, these are those people from whom society is living and benefiting today, who are doing good and hard work every day from the lowest salary segment to the middle salary segment and are finally getting more net from gross, and that is good and right. And yes, even at the minimum pension – then I come to my own place, but that is also important to me – we need justice and fairness, and of course we will prepare a law and make an increase in the guideline for those who have worked for 30 years and are moving in the lower part of the directive today. This usually applies to women in retirement. [[Abg. Drozda: 2019!]] [[Abg. Cashier: Better than never!]] Of course, we will ensure that those who have worked for more than 40 years – including enough women, my mother, for example, many mothers who have worked for 40 years and who do not have a pension of 1,200 euros per month, but who do not have a pension of nearly 1 000 euros per month – that we ensure that for those people this minimum pension of 1,200 euros net per month at over 40 years of work, during which they have been paid into the social system. [[Call the FPÖ:Often less!]] [[Abg. Höbart: To shame what the Social Democracy has caused there!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yes, we have taken this double budget into account, on the one hand, to save in the system and not to people – and on the other hand, we have made sure that no new debt has been incurred for the first time since 1954. [[Abg. Knes: Yes, bla, bla!]] This is always played as ridiculous, according to the principle that this is something easy in the economic situation that you are experiencing right now. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] We have experienced decades in which we have had a much higher economy in this country, and unfortunately it has not been possible to save the children and children new debts; on the contrary, we have had a high economic development in the last decades and – according to the motto: is still sausageed, we do not pay anyway, will be unloaded on the back of taxpayers, namely our children and children – nevertheless new debts. It is precisely with this non-social policy that we cease and for the first time since 1954 we have been able to avoid making new debts. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lightenness: But this is not serious either!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Androsch.]] That is why I should like to thank the Minister of Finance and his Secretary of State, both of which are responsible. And yes, I realize, of course, that the opposition sees this critically and perhaps there or there – that's its good right – but that doesn't necessarily match reality everywhere; that's what you have to mention. Today it has been said that there is a basket money or a play money, as it has always been ridiculously put into the room over the past few weeks, but the facts have long been put on the table. [[Call the SPÖ:66 million!]] [[Abg. Lightness: Yes, what is it?]] [[Abg. Knes: What is it?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The only game money that my ministry has gratefully comes from the Lotto-Toto revenue, and these 80 million euros benefit directly from the sport. That's right and important. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We therefore want to continue to generate competitions for sport in this segment, especially by putting on online bets, as Mrs Colleague Steger rightly mentioned earlier. Yes, it needs additional revenue for sports. In the online world there is a need to reduce VAT to 10 percent. For entrepreneurs who are willing to invest in sports, we also want to ensure that they receive tax reliefs similar to art, because this is important and also the right step. [[Abg. Lightness: What about the 66 million?]] It has been mentioned that this budget, the EUR 15 million, is not comprehensible to you. I have already told you several times in the Committee on Budgets: It's easy to understand. Not only do I have five locations with my new ministry, which has been formed from different areas, but of course it has also been formed a new cabinet. There are also developments in investment, which have already been budgeted by previous governments, but have not been spent. It is about investing in IT, changing tablets and much more, and of course it is also about setting up and investing in a Federal Sports Museum in the future. That is quite clearly understandable. Again and again, the 40 planning sites are placed in the room, although it has already been explained x-fold, which in fact are nothing but an authorization that can or cannot be used. These were, by the way, decided by the previous government. [[Abg. Gudenus: Look here!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Well, we have it now!]] The 80 plant sites have been parked in the financial resort, so to speak, and 40 of them have now moved to my newly created resort and 40 to the Federal Chancellery. These 40 planning sites, which are partly also awarded to other departments, were decided by the previous government in the form of an overrun authorisation. So this is a completely comprehensible process, which is constantly being explained, but one does not seem to want to take note of it. [[Abg. Rosary: I place a strong intellectual problem if you have to explain it all the time!]] There is no mention of 160 new planning posts, which Mrs Lueger spoke of earlier, since she was somewhat mistaken about the figures. I took over 200 planning posts from different areas to my Federal Ministry of Public Service and not 160 additional. This is simply incorrect and has been clarified once again. Mr Jarolim says that we do not keep our promise in the field of security. [[Abg. Jarolim: Yes, leader!]] So, Mr Jarolim, what we have already brought on the journey in the first 100 days towards implementation is more than the last 13 years have come from the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] I might just have a few points to make: As far as the planning sites are concerned, we have defined very clearly where we do not save, namely in the field of safety and education. This is an essential step. In the field of executives, we have made sure that 2 100 additional posts and 2 000 training plans are created. [[Call at SPÖ: Where is the competent minister?]] This is a very important step because there is an under-employment there and we have to counter it and because 2021 has a large pension wave on us, where up to 48 percent of officials will retire in the course of the public service. We control the old-age structures we have in part with new, additional planning sites that we occupy with young people in time to intercept them. We have also ensured the same in the area of judicial guard, where 75 planning points would have expired due to the decision of the previous government in 2018. We have now made sure that these do not expire, but that the judicial guard is preserved, and that 100 training centres are also secured for the judiciary. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is, of course, just a first step. We need to take this into account after the double budget – if the planning posts are properly occupied by the executive and we have also implemented the future positive establishment plan there – of course also for the years 2020/21, as we can also ensure for the area of the judicial guard, the prosecutor or the judge there or there some additional planning site. I'm here with you, but that's a process. First of all, we are rightly starting with the executive, because from one and a half years to two years is going on until that takes place; this is not happening from today to tomorrow. This, of course, is part of sustainable and correct planning. Yes, we insist that we set clear priorities in the areas of security. The Criminal Law Task Force is an example of this. We want to send a clear signal that violent criminals and sexual offenders are being punished more severely than we have before, because there is no tolerance. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of asylum law, we want those who claim to have left their home country because they are being persecuted there and then fly on vacation in that country where they are supposed to be persecuted to lose their right to stay. Yeah, that's what we're talking about, because that's an abuse that's been done up to date. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And yes, we also want to evaluate the mobile data of asylum seekers, because you can see from where someone who throws away a passport comes and communicates with whom. There is a certain need. And yes, we also change past developments that, as an asylumist, after six years of stay, we are automatically handed over citizenship by raising it to ten years and providing for the corresponding implementations. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And yes, we also want a financial participation of asylum seekers in the process. And yes, we want to be a follow-up to criminal asylum seekers, so that they will be systematically pushed off after this pushing. These are security measures that we have promised and that we will implement in concrete terms. One can be of a shared opinion, but we are convinced that this is the right way. Ladies and gentlemen! I come back to the budget of my resort: There are many investments to be made, of course also regarding the EU Presidency, which cannot be forgotten, of course also in the field of digitalization, in the course of the course the eGovernment, which is about solutions for the easier access of citizens to state services. Many, many additional costs are incurred as a result of the new ministry. There is no increase in my PR budget at all; on the contrary, my office and I as Vice-Presidents have 800 000 euros at their disposal. There you can see how economical I am. You can face my department, including with the cabinet staff, all the vice-presidents and will see that I don't have these planning points, this PR budget, in the first place, these sums; on the contrary, I save in my resort and deal responsibly with the resources. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The sums estimated for my range of resorts have already been found, I will not repeat now. But, as I have mentioned, we have an upcoming wave of retirement in front of us, up to 48 percent of officials will disappear from the public service over the next 13 years. We compensate for this now, which means more planning points, as you have correctly established, because we do not handle this in accordance with the lawn mower principle, but recognize the responsibility that we first need to train and train young people in old-age structures, then make the structures more efficient and slimmer, in order to be able to implement exactly that in the future, only every third planning site will be re-occupied. These are gradual steps that are necessary, for everything else would be irresponsible. [[Abg. Rosary: They don't understand that!]] The proportion of women in the Federal Service – also interesting – is very, very high compared to the private sector. That is positive. The number of section heads has increased particularly strongly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] As far as the retirement age in the federal administration is concerned, it is also possible to say that one can be proud of it, because at 61,9 years this is higher than that in the private sector and is also gradually approaching the legal age of entry. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] At this point I say a sincere and warm thanks to all the officials in the public service, to all the officials, since these are doing great things and do not deserve to always be shaved over a comb. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Many would be in demand in the private sector and could also earn more than they do in public service, but still they work with heart blood in public service. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reserves in the Ministry of Sports, which were created in recent years and intended for budgeting, were not spent – how much money that really is, we are currently evaluating. There is talk of different sums, we have now discovered 78 million euros, 30 million euros are missing. Now I'm going to look for the missing 30 million euros and explain why it can't be understood that these have gone down towards the Ministry of Finance. I've almost suspected that they might have flown somewhere else instead of finding use for sports, and that wouldn't be nice. You have to look at that. [[Abg. Rosary: There we have to ask the Doskozil!]] 78 million euros in reserves that were budgeted and have not been spent, we have found, these have gone back to the financial sector, yes, but the rest have not. That's where I wonder what happened. [[Call the SPÖ:Accommodations!]] That's still to be evaluated, and that's exactly what we're doing. In the field of sports, the Court of Auditors is currently working, and there is a lot of old-age work to be done. We will ensure that before the summer. Ladies and gentlemen! Sport is an essential area, which I do not just want to do by the way in my department, but it has a very, very important social importance for me. I think we're a sports nation. Austria is a sports nation, but we need to see that we do not lose the connection, that we are getting better above all and do not rest on the laurels there or there and that, when it comes to general sports promotion, we are setting new accents on the large-scale sporting events, about wide-ranging sports. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] We will develop the sports strategy Austria before the summer in order to define the goals and then be able to clearly define how we become more successful. Yes, the day-to-day sports hours in kindergartens and in folk school is a very important concern for us, which we have also foreseen in the budget. It is precisely there that we want to start, of course, with the claim to be able to implement it at higher school levels in the future, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. This is a cross-sectional matter, but of course we need additional budget resources from the health and education sectors; otherwise it will not be possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The largest budget items in the sport are the sports promotions of 80 million euros, which come to the Bundes-Sport GmbH. The new sports facilities are each budgeted 6,5 million euros, South City, Maria Alm, Kitzsteinhorn and other areas. You always have to see one in your sport: It is an incredible factor for the economy and tourism. We have a volume in the field of sport, with which we are clearly above the EU average. The economic costs resulting from inactivity are directly more than EUR 2.5 billion, and the gross value added of the sports industry in Austria is more than EUR 17 billion. 350 000 people are employed in the sports industry, and there are incredibly many who give their best daily volunteers in this area with heart blood. Of course, we must try to ensure that sports promotion does not simmer into the administration, but the sporteuro really comes directly to the sportsman as possible. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the challenges we will face, of course, to win the young people for sports and to inspire sport. But of course we also need the area of inclusion. We have made sure that more planning sites are made available in the area of military and police sports. In addition, I am currently reviewing an increase in the prize money for the successful participants in the Paralympic Games, so that they will be equal to the medal winners at the Olympic Games in the future. This is a step towards equality between athletes, who have earned all great things and deserved this equality. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] A total of 207 000 euros are raised in disabled sport from 2018 to 2019. Of course, we have also planned support measures in sport, including improved insurance systems for educators in the event of an accident, improved working conditions for exercise coaches and collective agreements for professional athletes. The aim is to extend the house of sport to include a sports museum in which we want to make visible the Austrians who have done great things in the sport. We want to ensure that young people are able to see their role models more closely there. It is also important to enter schools with our top athletes in the framework of projects to make it visible to schools who went to which school to show the children who are going to this school today, in order to confront them positively and to achieve a model effect. In the field of anti-doping measures, we focus on the planning and implementation of blood and urine controls, on the analysis of new substances and on the testing process as well as on the prevention by training measures. Of course, the financing of major events relating to these events – including through my predecessor – is fixed in planning: We support the forthcoming World Cycling Championship, for which we have guaranteed EUR 3 million, and the World Rowing Championship, in which the League contributes a third of the total cost of EUR 8.7 million. That is, we will, of course, continue to deal responsibly with these events in line with the budget resources we have. Overall, this is a good budget for this area and a budget that meets exactly the criteria that we have set ourselves, namely fairness, progress, tax relief and also justice. The aim is to generate even more resources for sport with legal optimizations, which I have mentioned to you today, and to ensure that in the future, sport will receive its importance, which it does not have completely in society. Sports must not be a stepchild in politics, on the contrary, it is more at the centre of social policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13199	The next item is the speech by Mr Schrangl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13220	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. This budget has started a trend change. For the first time in 60 years, this government has been doing what every Austrian has ever had to do: to spend only what one has taken. That is what we promised in our election programme, and that is why we have been elected by the people. We have promised to invest more in the field of security. Our Vice-Chancellor told us earlier, that is not only because there is more money for equipment, but also because of human resources policy. More than 2 100 planning posts for police, more than 1,000 security training places, for police students in Austria. This is really a great signal for security in this country. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But we also promised to do more for education. There, too, is not saved, but it is invested in the formation of the young Austrians, because education is our future. Only through education can we maintain our high standard of living, which we have established in recent years. Relief for families: It is not only spent more but also returned to people. Liberation for families – this programme we, the FPÖ and also the ÖVP, had in the election programme, for which we were elected. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, even though you are still yelling so loud now – I have to admit, you do very well, you shout very loud and get a lot of contradiction – you shout loud and evangelical false claims. [[Abg. Gudenus: False and with enthusiasm!]] For example, this problem – or what you always play in such a game – with the game money: Mr Vice-Chancellor has really explained to you – I would not have done so – in the committee what he needs, and he has explained it to you again today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Please tell any of you who have not yet understood this – you may have to tell it after the committee – that this “play money” is spent, for example, for technical modernisation, for computers. I admit, computers may sometimes be used to play – perhaps you should do a bit less and work more with the computer, then you would have heard what Mr Vice-Chancellor has to say. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've learned something today: The SPÖ is always attached to its flags to be the party against real estate speculators. In Vienna there is someone who bought a non-profit housing cooperative around 6 million euros. This is not the poor man, but that is exactly the one Mr. Millionaire has mentioned today. Today, in our application for the housing benefit law, we have taken account of the fact that non-profit housing is protected. And you didn't agree. Did you notice that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With our request, we have ensured that cheap living space for the people who need it remains secure and protected by protecting social and non-profit housing from precisely those real estate speculators you roll out of the red carpet in Vienna – the red carpet; as funny as I can see right now: the red carpet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We protect non-profit housing from property speculators. You don't agree, you roll out the red carpet. Think about it again, whether it's really that hot! Take measures, or vote You're up to our project! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13294	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittmann. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13338	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the HTL Saalfelden, who took place at the visitor gallery. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am amazed, Minister of Finance, how you are moving about your predecessors. You said you looked at it for 15 years – it still falls: Bowl I, bowl II – that nothing was done. I know Schelling wasn't good, he wasn't my friend either, I'll give you right, but as bad as you do, he wasn't either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's only out of the way that that guy deals with Sobotka. He's still bickering those, but otherwise you're already pointed out how you're dealing with your predecessor. I think that's unique. [[The speaker's phone is ringing.]] [[Vice Chancellor Strache: Your mobile phone, Mr. Colleague!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: That was the stretch!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Vice chancellor Street: And once again!]] - Kickl called. The form of dealing with the predecessors is left to you. I am only wondering how things are going in the ÖVP if one can be mistaken about the previous ministers. I understand Kickl, how he draws over Sobotka, because I also thought him a very bad minister, I don't think he's the best president either. I am of course in agreement with my previous speaker, Mr Gerstl, who said that we should strengthen Parliament. I am also in favour of a positive decision and that we agree, but I regret it now, because the President's representation costs are also increased – and now there is a prayer breakfast for the increased representation costs. [[Abg. Martin Graf: What Presidents...?]] I don't think that's the job of a president of the National Council. I believe that the separation of the state from the church needs to be observed. [[Abg. Gudenus: A bit more confession would...!]] If he does this as a private person, it's all right, but as President, to make a prayer breakfast, I think it's completely wrong. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] The question that arises here is of course whether the Minister for Economic Affairs is also invited as a learned shaman. That is a question you should ask yourself. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: This is your resort, the shamans! Hospital Nord!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What does that mean, “learned shaman”?]] - She's supposed to explain. To the UG 10, I would like to say one thing: The Committee felt like it was on the Internet in #answer how short, because it did not get an answer. The basket money was addressed and first denied twice; then it was admitted that there are 31 million euros in the International Position, with only a concrete measure that does not cost 31 million euros; but with 31 million euros you could serve all prosecutors who are never too many, you could serve all the judges who are too few. And then 20 million euros will be added, those amounts that have landed for digitization in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but have not been charged to the Federal Chancellery. That is, 51 million euros of basket money. ‘Body money’, it referred to the APA and so it referred to the ‘profile’. [[Abg. Singer: That's the ultimate truth, what they write, gal?- Oh, my God!]] You, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, have received 15 million euros of basket money. The beneficial difference between you and the chancellor was: You have said what you do with the money – I go d’accord, everything okay – the chancellor has not said it, he reserves it for his private advertising purposes. That is, I believe, something that the people do not want, namely a staged truth, which is already expressed in the pictures that Mr Schieder has shown today, namely, always dizzying a bit, it is not always the truth. To say that in his cabinet, 44 000 euros are saved, I think that this is something dizzy, if you want to say it kindly, because there are ten more people in the General Secretariat who did not previously have to be assigned to the Chancellor as direct staff. There are seven more places to be attributed to the chancellor, and there are four places in the think tank. That is, instead of 20 people, as the chancellor had previously in his cabinet, he now has 41 persons. Speaking of sparingness, I really think it's a chuzpe, because it has nothing to do with sparing, not at best. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I now make a request that I can read to you: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Bravoruf and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: I suppose you were at least so economical in Wiener Neustadt!]] [[13:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13600	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Ofenauer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13625	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear Seers! I think it is very exciting when Mr Wittmann speaks of ways of dealing, especially when he looks at the ways in which former top representatives of the SPÖ are dealing, which are called underground and definitely worthy of improvement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thank you. Just as in part the debates on public service, which is a very important element in the budget debate this week: On the one hand, there are too many planning places and too many staff and on the other hand too few staff, or there too little and there too much. Obviously, this also works according to the motto: The location determines the position. The fact is, the number of public service planning posts will increase with this double budget, and a focus this time is on security. Because of the world's policy, the security situation, it is very important to make priorities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] In the future, we will face another problem, Mr Vice-Chancellor said: The demographic development, the demographic change will not stop before the public service and leave its mark there, because in the next few years many retirements are on, and a wise post-employment policy must ensure that the built-up knowledge is passed on and that there is no brain drain. Savings, wherever possible, can not only be done by saving staff, but also by increasing efficiency potential and above all improving processes. Public service is the backbone of a functioning rule of law, and the debate must be conducted very sensitively, I think, because we are already facing major challenges: digitization, the demand for an ever-increasing, ever-increasing efficiency and, above all, ever more complex areas of activity. We clearly need a job reform, a task critique to define who does what and, above all, why, and it is important to eliminate double-tracks. The state needs to be kept slim in order to ensure efficiency for citizens and, above all, the efficient use of budget resources. It is clear that there must, of course, also be a lack of competence, and I place great hopes in the new Federal Government, which has attached itself to its flags and stands for an efficient state. Unfortunately, it is often so that it is really confusing for the simple citizen, farmer or trader, who is responsible, because sometimes even several are responsible. For example, if one wants to build a private bridge, it can be that construction authorities are responsible and it also falls within the area of water law, and one approves, the other fails to grant permission, so that one no longer knows: Can they be built now or not? Deregulation, unbundling and clear competences are important, because then the financial resources provided to us by taxpayers will also be used efficiently and a sustainable public administration will be established. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, any reform also needs the appropriate foresight in order to meet the future challenges. Public service will contribute to the reduction of debt and to the planned zero deficit, because at the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen – and this is an old wisdom – we can no longer spend more than we take. This double budget will put an end to the policy of debt making, and our grandchildren will thank us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13691	Next word reported: Mr Loacker. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13712	Madam President. Estimated government members and other honor rations! High house! What we have been presented in the context of the division 17 Public Service was, carefully said, a disappointment, I would say it was a bad shame. The Minister of Finance has stated several times that in the future only every third post will be re-occupied in the public service. If you see that in Austria 15.9 percent of the working population is active in the public service and in Germany only 10.6 percent, you can see: There's still air. The inclined audience, even the less inclined media, has taken over your fairy tales that only every third station would be reoccupied. For example, the “Wiener Zeitung” wrote of the “Sparstift in the Administration”, but there would have to be a decrease in public employment. He doesn't do that – it's just a shame. The number of planning posts will increase by 1 160 in 2018 and by 804 in 2019, a total of 3 500 planning posts by 2022. Mr. Vice-Chancellor called this proactive personnel policy in the Committee, so in 2018 we already hire people for those who might retire 2021/2022. And, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, if you say that in 2021, up to 48 percent will go to pension, so that is - - yes, over the next 13 years, but you can't even hire the people you need to replace over the next 13 years. [[Vice Chancellor Strache: The next 13 years!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Gudenus.]] [[Cheerfulness of the vice chancellor Strache.]] So all this is a big shame. I asked you in committee, Mr Vice-Chancellor, when the staff level will fall back to the level of 2015; and You said you can't say that yet. It is obvious that what the Minister of Finance says – it's only going to be re-occupied with every third position – is simply a marketing insult, as this government in many cases does. The Committee has now also discussed the right of service of public servants, and several improvements have been envisaged, such as the acquisition of the part-time reintegration, which already exists in private labour law, into public law, and various other things. – Yes, I like that, I like the same right for everyone, but that must not be a one-way street. Then I want to have the same right for all during the lunch break, and the officials must also book their lunch break as a normal employee. That would be courage, it wouldn't be a shame, but it's a lack of courage.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13774	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13796	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the top organs! I'm amazed, it happened for the first time after over 60 years, which nobody believed in: We will write positive figures in 2019, half a billion euros plus there has just been over 60 years no longer, and God is [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schellhorn and Mr Vogl]] Thanks to this mismanagement of red and black is over. The reds are so ideologised that they can only see any number more red, there they are world champions: to pull the money out of their pocket, to put it in their own hands, to finance projects close to the parties, or to finance projects that are empty, only so that you can put some people back there, to which you can turn the red party book. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You've done that for years now, and that's thank God now finally over! This government is now no longer red-black, but turquoise-blue, and the felt breaks out, the crust of the old system breaks up. [[Cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the SPÖ.]] The people see light at the end of the tunnel, get a little fresh air, breathe it up because your system is over. Turquoise Blue is the future, and that for many years, I am sure! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This government creates clear priorities in this budget: Security offensive; consistent deportations of people who become guilty of us or are getting a negative asylum notice – one of the greatest wishes of the population you have permanently pushed to the long bank –; more money for care, more appreciation of this government especially towards the older generation; quite an important element, we have been demanding for many years: first German, then school, so that our children will no longer be on the road in the public school; [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Vogl]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] broadband initiative, digitalisation; Reduce the tax and tax rate so that the working and performing people in this country will finally be left a little – which you have put out of their pocket for years; [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] Delivering small and medium-sized incomes, where you say, is all stupid. We have been demanding this discharge of the middle class for many years, in fact it should be your constituency client, but it can more to blame us; but please, understand who wants to, I don't have to do it anyway, and I'm also glad that I don't do it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] This government will reduce double-tracks and introduce reforms, and we are now in the chapter which I would like to take very short notice of: the Court of Auditors, which shows exactly these double-tracks and the need for reform in numerous of its examinations over and over again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] At this point, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to express my respect and appreciation for you and your staff and auditors as Parliament's most important assistant body for the activities carried out. You have also referred to it in the Committee, you have found that with this budget, you can ensure that the Court of Auditors' core tasks are fulfilled, in other words, the advisory activities and the carrying out of audits. They have set themselves the goal of making 20 cross-sectional tests, together with all the individual tests and follow-up tests, and one has to start there precisely because they show the interface problems, the problems of competence we have in this country. I am very, very glad that this number can be increased again. It is personally foolish for me to be able to vote for a budget for the first time after almost eleven years in Parliament, because it makes sense because it includes action and because this fiscal disbursement policy of the Socialists is finally over.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13895	Next item is the report by Mr Drozda. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13916	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Estimated Volksanwälte! The Federal Government claims – and I would have liked to address the Federal Chancellor personally – that is unfortunately not possible – that they are saving in the system. – Listen well, just don't! The opposite is true of: You save people and you're losing the system. The basket money – mentioned several times today, discussed several times – is 51 million euros, 15 million euros in the Vice-Cancellor's Office. That's where we know how Peter Wittmann really found out, at least what's going on with it. It is amazing, however, with which nonchalance you have approved 100 new planning sites in the Federal Chancellery. What should this be like if you have 51 million euros more basket money and 100 additional employees? These 100 additional staff include, for example, the General Secretariat with six employees and the office of the government spokesman with ten employees. We discussed all this in detail in the Committee on Budgets, also questioned the new think tank. The Federal Chancellor has given an interesting answer to the question of how many employees work in the think tank. He said: four pieces. He spoke of piece, not of people, not of persons, not of employees, but of pieces, and I believe that this division forbids itself. [[Abg. Little: Yeah, great, right! Kindergarten is this!]] - That's the way it is, Mrs. Colleague! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Assuming men and women: The Federal Chancellery spends around 2 million euros on highly qualified persons whose desk is empty. They are all parked in the Amalientrek of the Hofburg. This concerns, among other things, two section heads, secretariats of section heads, a head of staff – the list can be continued for a long time. I would just like to hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Chancellor would not call this list a piece. It is cynical and false to let highly qualified staff walk and take away work and thus part of their identity. This is the one – if you want to do so, the ethical and moral side. The other side is the economy, economy and effectiveness. This shows that you double the structures, which is certainly not in the interest of taxpayers. I would like to address another subject briefly: the media. 51 million euros for the Federal Chancellery were not available, the funds for a meaningful increase in press promotion, which would have cost about 8 million euros. In this context, it is quite clear where the priorities are: not with a meaningful media promotion, but with the message control, with the expenses for the speakers, with the costs for the Secretary-General. As a rule, the chancellor and the minister of the media hear little, and if, then, the subject matter, like the postulate of the disarmament of the words. I am also very much in favour of disarming the words, but I would like to point out who has actually upgraded. The former vice chancellor of this Republic and current Stiftungsrat Norbert Steger has recently upgraded. However, apart from the derailments he has made, I would ask you to really judge to the Federal Chancellor that, from my point of view, Mr Steger is neither suitable as the Council of Foundations nor appropriate for the Presidency of the Board. He has completely disqualified himself through his activities and is unbearable for the most important supervisory function in public broadcasting – and if he does not apologize directly and clearly, you as a government must no longer order him. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e13978	The next item is the speech by Mr Schnoll. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14000	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, a few words from me to the budget in general: Even if the opposition does not like to hear it, I think it is quite remarkable that we are able to achieve an administrative budget surplus and we are finally able to repay debt once again. I think, especially as a boy, you have to say that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Herbert.]] But back to the sport: As a sports spokesman of the People's Party, I am particularly pleased that a very ambitious budget has been achieved. I think there has been a lot of success with the right focus from school sports to broadband to top sports. I also believe that the fact that sport is located directly with Mr. Vice-Chancellor gives him much more importance than in the past, when sport has been understood as a bit of a minor matter and politics has often treated him as a biting mother. Sports don't deserve that. I think the sport deserves our full attention. Why do I believe that? – On the one hand, because sports are essential to our health. Every euro we spend on sports is a euro that we save for health. I believe that it does not only need budgetary effort, but above all it takes a general social awareness-building to integrate sport into our everyday lives. What do I mean by that? – An example: When you come here by metro, you can see the Men's grape lift in Herrengasse station, the people stand up for 3 to 4 minutes to get into the elevator. At the same time, one would probably have been faster over the stairs. I believe that if you are going ahead with good example, you can do something for your own health and also show example for our children. Anyone who treats the sport as a bit of a side-end, I think he's wrong. The economic data – quite exciting figures that Dr. Helmenstein has collected – show that in Austria, sport contributes 4.12 percent to GDP. This is almost twice as much as in the EU section. This is especially true of tourism. 58 percent of all nights in our country are sport relevant. With this number, we are European champions, and if you look at it, you can see that sports tourism in our country is as strong as all tourism in Poland and Croatia. I think, however, we must also ensure that our domestic children find pleasures in winter sports again and that sports tourism in total gets a higher priority again – keyword Schulskiweek. I don't think many parents can afford to send their children there anymore. We need to become active so that at least every child is standing on the slopes once. When we talk about the movement of our children, it is especially important to highlight the honorary ministry. 576 000 volunteers who are active in sports who volunteer for sports for 2.2 million hours, that is really unique and deserves our recognition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Our children need role models. We have countless top athletes, and in order to remain the same, we need, I believe, a sports venue strategy that deserves this name. Austria must also remain a country of major sporting events. I would just like to mention the rowing World Cup in Ottensheim, the cycling World Championship this year in Innsbruck and also the ice-cream championship in Graz 2020. Finally, one last comment: I was very pleased that, together with Mr Steger, we have achieved that a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Sports Committee, namely on an annual sports report. This shows that the importance of sports as a whole is increasing and that one thinks beyond the party boundaries so that the matter is in the foreground, in the sense of the economy and in the sense of our health. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14063	Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14084	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Chancellor! Mr Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate and Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Mrs Steger spoke earlier about a turn of events in the sports budget. I think that's a little exaggeration. In sports policy, there is a difference to - - – in the budget I definitely do not see the turnaround. [[Abg. Steger: Said old loads from the SPÖ block the budget!]] The budget is in the final effect a continuation of everything that has been there so far. From my point of view, you have also mentioned it relatively little, Mrs Colleague, in the gambling law, nothing has happened in terms of § 20 for years, and nothing has happened in the budget either. You would have been able, in any way, to picture the surplus revenue that the Minister of Finance would have received, but would actually have been partially due to you, and actually have to, because if you have more revenue – and you say you are fighting for it and you want to get it – then you should also picture it somewhere. In principle, however, it is to be said that the topic of sport promotion is generally rethinking. I also very much welcome the fact that you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are already taking a few steps or are saying that you want to do a lot of things, as we are currently in the situation that the funding simply does not arrive where they belong and toll. For example, you have just answered a question about women in sport. With this we have been more concerned about how many women there are in sport, especially in the boards of the sports associations, since it was a goal of the old Federal Government and the sports ministers to achieve a certain standard in this area and in 2018 a share of 40 percent. At the end of 2016, we were 16 percent of all sports associations across Germany. This is a serious difference, and you can see that sports promotions do not help to achieve the goals we set ourselves. Let us look at the handball club as a very concrete example. There we had a funding of 60,000 euros in 2014, currently we also have 60,000 euros, and to this day there is no single woman on the board. This is, of course, not a very positive symbol, and we have to think that the promotion does not come where we want it to go. That is to say, for us the question of where this money is going partly, since it is not quite understandable whether these projects are really being made, and we believe that we finally need a reform of sports promotion, which frees us from the party clusters and structures of the parties and finally brings us to the point that the individual athlete has something of it at the end and that this is not lost in the system. Finally, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[13:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14179	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mr Werner Herbert. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14208	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Madam President. Estimated Volksanwälte! Yes, if Mr Loacker brings us here once again his already often shown disapproval and also ignorance of the public service, then we are not really surprised. Surprisingly, however, Mr Lueger's negative statements on the impact and functionality of planning posts are interesting, since she has a non-essential role in the field of spokespersons in her group and would have to know that a planning site is not simply numerical macularity, but the defined job of a staff member, from which not only his duties are derived, but also his remuneration status and which is therefore of particular importance to him. There we are on the subject of public service, and I would like to address the SPÖ colleagues once again, because this one was not really spoiled in recent years when the SPÖ held the Chancellor's Office, the Chancellor's Office, but also the State Secretary responsible for the public service. [[Abg. Loacker: If you already blame me for ignorance, you must already say what's wrong!]] When I think of the many cuts in the public service, when I think of the zero wage rounds in the public service, when I think of the many service reforms with many negative effects on public servants, I have to say that the SPÖ has a clear, though negative track in the public service. [[Abg. Easy: Leave it!]] But this is changing, as I am very pleased to see the distribution of the public service into a ministry of our own, not only in the Vice-Cancellor's Office, but also in the form of a special appreciation for the public service, but also in the form of an important symbol effect for our contract staff, for our officials. This path is not only characterised by an organisational change, but it is also reflected in a number of content components, namely a clear and independent detail budget, which – as the vice-channer has already done – is transparent and comprehensible, contrary to all unacknowled appeals from the opposition, with infrastructure innovations, whether in the IT field, whether in the security field or in the field of building renovation. These are all things that have remained under the SPÖ regime in recent years, or it has simply not been worth your support to our officials and contract staff in carrying out their work in accordance with logistical terms. However, it is also a new, clearly defined budget, with clear objectives for the next few years, in which areas and with what priority we use them. All of this shows the new path that this Federal Government and, above all, the public service under the direction of Vice-chancian Strache, which, as I think, will not only be a path crowned by success, but which – and there the vice-chancer can certainly be – will be honoured by the officials in the public service and greatly appreciated. In this way, I should like to join Mr Vice-Chancellor in thanking my group as a member of the public for their daily work for our country, for its place of business, but also as an important service and as an important execution engine for the Republic. I think that despite all the unmistakables, public service is an important factor in fulfilling the tasks and activities of the Republic. In this sense, I would like to thank you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14258	The next item is Mrs Greiner's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14280	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Chancellor, you said you were saving in the system, you were saving over your predecessor. How many employees do you have in your cabinet? – I hear, 41, Christian Kern had 21 employees as German Chancellor; that’s about 20 more. That's saving? - Well, yes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's not true, that's the wrong number!]] Before devoting myself to the Court of Auditors, I would like to address the Minister of Finance briefly: Mr Finanzminister, you are saving in the system, you delete action 20 000, and you are talking about this action as a mean action and as a pointless action; you have emphasized this again today. Mr Finanzminister, do you have any idea how the people concerned are doing, how a family father is more than 50 years old, to whom you have taken the hope of working? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the financial side of the Court of Auditors: We have heard, both this year and next year the reserves have to be dissolved, and according to the report, there have been some difficult conditions in the commitment of the Ministry of Finance. But how does it look for 2020? Having also discussed this in the Committee's deliberations, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, I would like to make an appeal here to the Minister of Finance or to your interest in ensuring that the Court of Auditors can carry out its duties to the full after 2019: Mr Finanzminister, please have an open ear to the Court of Auditors! Finally, I would like to take up a point because it is positive and, as I believe, very important for all of us, including for citizens: The Court of Auditors' recommendations are being implemented to a very high degree, especially in the municipalities, which is more than 80 percent. Why do I emphasize that? – Local authorities receive comparable data, and citizens in particular know whether public funds are used sparingly, economically and effectively. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why it is so important that the Court of Auditors also has financial planning security for the next few years that we can assume that public funds are used with due care. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14329	Thank you very much. The President of the Court of Auditors is now speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14354	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister for Finance! Estimated members of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me begin by making a few basic comments on the Court of Auditors' budget. It has already been discussed a lot about it, And I can say here that with these budget proposals for the years 2018 and 2019 we can also finance the tasks assigned to the Court of Auditors. Why is that? – We owe this to our own reserves. We can rely on the reserves and have budgeted them accordingly, thanks to the negotiations also with the Federal Minister for Finance. But – and now it comes –: For the years after that, as from 2020, an adjustment of the expenditure ceilings is urgently needed in accordance with the federal financial framework, because the annual budgets and the staff plan are very different, and then we have to be able to plan again in a congruent manner, because it is ultimately about ensuring the financial requirements of independent external financial control also medium-term and sustainable. These financial requirements relate primarily to the solid minimum human resources for the Court of Auditors, which is the financial disbursements which fix our budget annually. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is also in your interest, in the interests of democratic control of the House, if the Court of Auditors can guarantee its well-founded auditing beyond 2019, at a high quality assurance level. He has already done this well-founded test work and we are therefore at your service. I would therefore like to express my thanks to all the political groups who have repeatedly given me positive signals of support for the work of the Court of Auditors and also to the staff. We try to speak and answer here monthly in the Court of Auditors and to contribute to the state's further development. I should like to focus very briefly on the objectives and projects of the Court of Auditors over the next two years. We have set four objectives of action, which are the strategic priorities you already know from the previous year. This is about the effective advice of the National Council and also the landing days. It is about creating transparency in the use of public funds. We want to create transparency on the issues of equality and diversity, and we want to work well with other control institutions and cooperate nationally and internationally. We have updated the indicators and measures, and I call them a few priorities. We have set the test focus on three years. You know this, I am concerned with the quality of public performance, and the focus is on citizens' benefits. This is the focus of the Court of Auditors' work. We therefore plan to devote half of the examinations from the current year to this audit focus in order to have a well-founded basis here and to make general statements. In addition, we are of course constantly examining major construction projects and infrastructure projects. Secondly, I am concerned with developing key, relevant recommendations on the basis of audit reports, because I believe that this is very important for your parliamentary work so that you can draw the right conclusions from it. The topic of cross-sectional examinations has already been discussed. Cross-sectional checks are comparisons between legal entities, across the borders of local authorities. We can make such a benchmarking and see where there are structural weaknesses and deficits. Finally, it is very important to me that, in terms of current qualification of the examiners, we are really up-to-date with the technology that we are constantly developing, because this is the most important basis for a high-quality work of the Court of Auditors, and also a corresponding quality management. As Secretary-General of the Intosai, I also, of course, value the sustainable development goals of the United Nations. The Court of Auditors supports this through its own audits in Austria and also at international level. In this context, I am pleased to be able, together with the People's Procuratorate, to organise an event within the framework of the EU Presidency, which will also be held by the President of the National Council and which can take place in these premises. This is about good public administration and citizens' benefits and about the contribution of parliamentary control institutions. This event will take place on 25 May. September of this year. The Court of Auditors' internal projects concern the internal organisation, a modern development. It is about technical possibilities that we implement to provide comprehensive electronic reporting, to save printing costs, and to modernise our own homepage, because we are publishing all our reports. Very briefly, the figures of the budget: We have 33.5 million euros available in 2018 to disbursements and 34.94 million euros in 2019. Budgetary withdrawals are included in these two years, this year 1.3 million euros and next year 2 million euros. By the end of 2019, the reserve will be used up to around EUR 415 000. This means, of course, that the current financial framework has a budgetary undercover for the years 2020 and the following. We have an extensive portfolio of tasks to deal with: examine, advise, special tasks you all know. The Court of Auditors itself has in the past observed strict budgetary discipline. This is demonstrated by a decrease in the number of planning posts or full-time equivalents financed from around 290 in 2013 to an average of 273 in 2017. This is a proportion of about 85 percent of the staff plan. This path cannot continue in the sense of high-quality and well-founded control, so it is my goal to raise the actual staff input back to around 89 percent, 90 percent of the staff plan – truly funded – in the medium term. This is a minimum human equipment, because we need targeted post-retirements in the newly defined and also identified test fields as the basis for our test work. Therefore, I think that this argument is justified, comprehensible, and I am seeking your support. I thank everyone Ladies and gentlemen of this House, for their willingness to always stand by my side for strong and effective financial control in Austria. I also very much understand financial control, which is based on improved legal frameworks – as the committee president Griss has mentioned – and perhaps there is a development process here too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14427	Thank you very much, Madam President. The next item is the speech by Mr Berlakovich. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14451	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Representatives of the Court of Auditors and Public Prosecutors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Greiner, you and your group colleagues have now repeatedly compared the cabinet of the current Federal Chancellor with that of the previous, and you are making absurd numbering games here. The fact is that the present cabinet of Sebastian Kurcin is about 40 000 to 44 000 euros per month is cheaper than that of the predecessor. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would ask you to use the right numbers, otherwise your argumentation will be exposed as a party-political maneuver. However, I am allowed to comment here on the topic of Austrian ethnic groups. These are an important part of the linguistic and cultural identity of Austria, but also of the European Union. Finally, there is movement at the European level, because there are about 340 autochthonic minorities in Europe, which count in about 100 million people, half of them live in the European Union. There has recently been an initiative, Minority SafePack, a European Citizens' Initiative, whose concern is that the European Commission should focus more on this issue. 1.2 million people have signed it, 10,000 people in Austria, with European relevance, and the European Parliament must deal with it. The concerns are important, because it is a matter of ensuring the uniqueness of our continent in Europe, which includes, in addition to many other advantages, linguistic and cultural diversity. This distinguishes us from other regions, and it is therefore worth supporting those concerns which are of priority to the protection and promotion of just this cultural and linguistic diversity. However, it is also about supporting small language communities to the legal equality for stateless minorities, such as the Roma. However, it is also about support in the audiovisual sector and state support programmes to support Europe. This is important, and I hope that the European level will address this issue accordingly; we must be concerned because in Europe, even here in Austria, our groups are at risk. Even if there are legal safeguards, we need new impulses, so it is important that about 3.9 million euros are secured in the budget for 2018 and the same amount for 2019. We know that the Austrian groups expect something more, for example a valorization. This is not possible at the moment, but certainly an aspect of the future. It is important, however, that Minister Gernot Blümel has already been given support. Was it so far that funding for groups of people was paid only by the end of the year – that was a major problem for the associations; They had to pre-finance, pay for employees, take credit – this has now been stopped; the funding will be paid before the summer, which is a tremendous relief for the ethnic groups associations of the six indigenous groups that we have in Austria. But it goes on: Recently, there was a meeting with the representatives of the Austrian ethnic groups on this subject in the Federal Chancellery. They have expressed concerns that are supportive. One of these was that the press promotion of the ethnic groups is ensured. The language is the central means of communication. If it is no longer used or used, the ethnic group ceases to exist. This is therefore an important aspect. Another concern was education. Today, members of Austrian indigenous ethnic groups live in the metropolitan area, in Vienna, in Graz and so on, due to the circumstances of life outside the autochthonian settlement area, and they too should receive support for what is going on in the field of education; I think this is important. I also support the efforts of the ORF Public Council, which are also supported by the groups, to increase the number of broadcasts in the ORF. People's groups are being designed because it is important that the language is preserved as a means of communication. Last point: At the invitation of Minister Blümel, there will be a meeting in the Federal Chancellor's Office at the beginning of May, to which representatives of the ethnic groups will be invited for the first time on a large scale and in which there will be an open discussion, in which areas can be set up to ensure the existence of the ethnic groups in Austria but also in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14518	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is the report by Mr Knes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14542	Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated People's Procuratorate! First: Dear Ms. Sieglinde Dörflinger from Sankt Veit, who you are particularly interested in with your ladies' round, I welcome you here and welcome you to 80. Birthday wishes! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to support the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors. If you read the budget carefully, you can see that the funds for the Court of Auditors will only be guaranteed through reserves in the next two years. Staff costs are to be kept at 80 percent, which is at least about 31 million euros, expenditure on buildings and rents is 1.6 million euros, and how slender the Court of Auditors must work, although matter is important. Thankfully, the President mentioned how valuable it is to have a Court of Auditors. I can still remember other times – and I'm now looking across the corner of the FPÖ. For many years it has explicitly called for the Court of Auditors to be better equipped, but it also has the objective of making it easier for us to make savings in the municipalities, but also in the federal government, and we would have to make the financial resources available to the Court of Auditors. – Behold, now you are in the government, and I am unfortunately not seeing God in the next two years. Thankfully, we have with the reserves, which is right, a slight increase, but of efficiency or increase in performance in the Court of Auditors as far as auditing is concerned, nothing can be seen at all. I also looked very closely at the numbers. If you look at where the Court of Auditors' reserves are actually coming from, you can see that in recent years there has been a massive reduction in staff, which the President of the Court of Auditors referred to. There are currently around 323 people employed, and see, nothing will change over the next two years. That's why: Thank you, Madam President, for doing so anyway! A request to the Minister of Finance: If we are already able to examine effectively and rinsing money on the Confederation, we must, of course, provide the Court of Auditors with the necessary financial resources. There are enough examples of this, I would just like to mention one: If, by preventing tax relief, you could play 375 million euros a year, but the financial does nothing at all, it is also interesting. This will be debated here in the next three days. A proposal to the President of the European Parliament and to all political groups: The purpose of discussing and debating a double budget for three days is totally out of my mind. It's an insanction to talk here for three days about something that's going to be decided anyway. There would actually be ten people across borders to discuss this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14585	Next item is Mrs Schimanek's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14606	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated members of the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to speak on the subject of public prosecutors, since I am the chairman of the People's Procuratorate Committee, and I must say that the People's Procuratorate is certainly the smallest, but also the most economical, top organ, which in Austria enjoys a very high priority and appreciation among the population. I would like to thank all the public prosecutors and my group's lawyers for their excellent work. According to budget estimates, the Public Prosecutor's Office has available around 11.6 million euros in 2018 and around 11.5 million euros in 2019, which means an increase of almost 1 million euros in the public prosecutor's budget compared to 2017. However, according to Parliament's budget service, 60 percent of them are at the expense of the staff needed to control both the administration and the preventive control of human rights. The main tasks of the Public Prosecutor's Office are to carry out the main tasks: checking administrative control, carrying out the checks concerning OPCAT and the UN Disability Convention as well as the new Home Victims Pension Act. We have also talked about this in the Committee, and the Volksanwalts have reported that 1,356 acts have already been made in connection with the Home Victims Pension Act, 137 of which have been dealt with and 106 cases have been dealt with positively. However, the Home Victim Pension Act does not include cases of abuse in hospitals, in private institutions or in the SOS Children's Village. On the side of the People's Procuratorate, the suggestion was made to include these cases in the Home Victim Pension Act. I also believe that at the next meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, there will be a large majority in favour and that there will be good, constructive discussions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Maintaining the high quality of the public prosecutor's examination as well as the formless, free and easy access to the public prosecutor's office is highly appreciated by the population in Austria – that is one of the public prosecutor's objectives – and the complaints can be filed in writing, by fax or by e-mail and you can make an appointment free of charge and go directly to the public prosecutor's office. In the Committee, the speech was addressed in the countries. It was discussed that there are very constructive discussions with the countries, but there is still a little air up in the cooperation with the country of Lower Austria, but I think we will also do that, so that the People's Procuratorate in Lower Austria gets a better priority. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we in Parliament continue to cooperate well with you. I can assure you that both I and my group will always have an open ear to your concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14651	The next item is Mrs Gruber's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14673	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, in advance, a few words on Mr Steger's speech. The framework conditions cannot have been as bad as they were: With all the appreciation of your personal sporting successes, without association, without promotion, it is impossible to make it so far in sport and achieve such successes. I would therefore also like to break a lance for the good work of the associations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Children are our future. After Mr Vice-Kanzler has repeatedly referred to the importance of more movement among children and young people around the budget, it is time to take concrete measures. A daily hours of movement or gymnastics would have the effect of bringing the children and young people back to the sport, to the joy of movement. Children who enjoy movement and find a corresponding offer, live healthier, stay fit longer, social skills are promoted, the head becomes more freer for taking up the learning material. The tourist resort also has its part to contribute in the implementation, because these are our future guests. Especially in tourism, it is becoming increasingly clear that many children, for example, no longer learn to ski and have no interest in sports, as there are far too few offers in kindergartens and schools. Many countries, many mayors as school owners already offer excellent opportunities for children and families, but only if the framework conditions are created throughout the country will there be a noticeable positive effect. The competence of the roof associations is undisputed. They carry out their tasks perfectly and are part of the whole but not used for the implementation of the daily turn hour. Cross-border links and positive effects should be reflected in the budgets of the individual departments, thus ensuring funding. Now policy is required to implement additional offers such as the daily turn hour. All studies confirm their need. If it fails to finance, a good tip for me is to use Mr Vice-Chancellor's basket money worth 15 million euros for our children and young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14716	The next item is Mrs Fichtinger's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14737	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Dear Members of the People's Procuratorate! President of the Court of Auditors! High house! The budget for the years 2018 and 2019 is ahead of us. We have had a lot of discussions in this regard last week and we are dealing with a lot of things. I can make a brief comment on the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has been very, very long. He was already born in 1761 by Empress Maria Theresia was founded as a control body. So he has been working for a very long time and can look back on success after 250 years. The Court of Auditors is primarily an independent body. He examines the federal government, countries, municipalities, gives an overview of the financial situation, about the public budget, and he also makes recommendations, which is always necessary to improve one or another. As a member of the Committee on the Court of Auditors, I should like to thank the staff and also the President very much for the good cooperation. It is important that there is good planning, a good classification, which, as the President has already said, is very important in the future. It is very, very important that the Court of Auditors should continue to be equipped with sufficient resources in the future so that it can continue to fulfil its tasks and in the next few years, good work will be ensured. Thank you very much for the good cooperation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14777	The next item is the speech by Mr Leichfried. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14798	Madam President. Federal Minister! President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! - A very nice one! [[The speaker places two tables next to the speaker's desk.]] [[Call the FPÖ:A schön’s Sculpture!]] The Federal Chancellor has some interesting properties. One of them is that within four months he managed to produce two very interesting hashtags on Twitter: The one was the hashtag #answerlikekurz – that was when he actually did not answer in the last question hour – and the Second was the hashtag #retouching how short. There are so nice pictures. We've already seen some. [[The speaker holds a panel in the height, which shows a photo on which German chancellor can be seen just before a framed image, twice in comparison. In the first photo, the frame contains the portrait of a smoking family of an indigenous ethnician, on the second photo a panda.]] I think that's the best thing about Panda. It's a sweet viper. [[Abg. Gudenus: No, we've seen that!]] [[The speaker holds a second panel.]] That's where you see it bigger. That's where he even wept! Really hearty! - I don't know why you're so upset. [[Abg. Bösch: A little more serious, please!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] He's over there anyway. [[pointing towards ÖVP]] The question is: Why does he do that? Does he only do this with pictures or does he like to do it at all? Does he like to make sure that what is true, but doesn't fit him, is retouched, ladies and gentlemen? – I think that is the style of the Federal Chancellor, and this style is to be rejected! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What happened to the Presidency? – The cost of the Presidency is also the subject today. At first it was 35 million euros, then it was retouched when it came to the conclusion that it did not fit – 41 million euros – and further up to 51 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the last Presidency cost EUR 90 million, and that was in 2006, when everything was a little cheaper. I'm curious about how to retouch. Next: the debate on the budget of the European Union. We don't pay anymore, even if we need 15 billion more. - That was the first one. Second: Yes, we may pay grossly more, but not net. Ladies and gentlemen, when retouching is over, we will probably pay more than we have ever paid before. This is the style of Mr. Kurz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What concerns me the most: Retouching is not only a matter of numbers, it is also a matter of viewpoints. It has begun with the finding: I'm a promoter, I'm a democrat! Ladies and gentlemen, those who make themselves in common with the Orbáns, Kaczyńskis, Putins are neither a pro-European nor a democrat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Gudenus, please speak to your group. You're not going in now! [[Abg. Gudenus: Is Hungary not in the EU?! Didn't you learn anything? You have no idea of doings and bubbles!]] – With the European Group, yes! This style is the style of Mr Kurz, ladies and gentlemen. The truth sometimes hurts, you have to deal with it, but retouching it is not worthy of a federal chancellor! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14934	The next item is Mrs Grünberg's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e14955	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! We all know the saying: Whoever's racing, the rust. We notice this to ourselves when you feel rusted and beaten because the movement has been missing for a long time. Even if this may seem strange to you now, but also to me – in the wheelchair – I also need movement and training to stay alive and mobile, in the head as well as in the body. As a wheelchair driver, I probably need the regular movement even much more than you all do to avoid rusting. In this context, two aspects are particularly important to me: On the one hand, there is a need for more exercise and sports opportunities for people with disabilities. Austria already has a good reputation for professionally disabled sports. I strongly support the fact that one continues to confess and invest in this area, for example by increasing the positions for athletes with disabilities in military sports. The Austrian participation in the Paralympic Winter Games in Pyeongchang was also seen. You can build on this, but you must continue to invest. Overall, the budget for disabled sport is 2.6 million euros for 2018, which is fortunately more than in the previous year. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] What I think needs even more attention is an inclusive broadband sport with low level of access. Often it does not take much to make movement and sports offers accessible to disabled people, but unfortunately this is still too rarely thought in many sports clubs and generally in sports activities in cities and communities. In addition to the preventive character, sport has an essential social, inclusive component. On the other hand, it has been shown that as early and as young as possible movement should be started, in children with and without disabilities alike. The model effect of the environment, primarily of course that of the parents, plays a key role in the Practice and get used to regular exercise units – from around outdoors to club sports – is an essential part. Children want to make exercise tasty, so you should ideally start in the parents' home and continue it in educational institutions. For this purpose, investment should be made. The children's health project proposes exactly this notch and looks at 155 000 units in kindergartens and public schools per school year, just to give an example of what you see in the sports budget. The overarching goal of a healthy lifestyle and the achievement of well-being through sport and exercise is also to be promoted under the slogan “Moving in the Park” through free range of activities for all ages. Here, in turn, I stretch the bow to more accessible offers, because this starts at the playground and is a topic for every municipality. Children with disabilities sometimes need other or at least adapted play equipment to play with other children and, above all, to play accident-free, because life is movement and movement is life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15012	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15037	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Minister of Sports! Mr Finanzminister! Mr Finanzminister, after hearing some speeches today: If I believed the media, I'd have to ask you now: Where's the basket? If one compares – which is claimed or even to believe experts – how much money one or the other minister has collected, then I have to say that the Sports Minister has caught the smallest basket. This is actually something I don't like – if it's true – but I don't want to stop for long. The fact is: The federal sports funding has not been increased since 2011, nor has it been valorized, although it is known that everything has become more expensive. [[Abg. Jarolim:... the wrong basket...!]] The demands on sport have always failed to reject the respective Minister of Finance, so I understand the criticism from your side to your predecessors and can understand them. Ladies and gentlemen! The sports associations in Austria, the whole sport in Austria needs more support, not only financially, but also in general with regard to the importance of society, in infrastructure – not only in terms of new sports facilities, but also in terms of the increased use of school sports facilities – in training in principle, in research and technology, in health sports as well as in top sports, starting from kindergarten age to old age. I therefore call for creativity and intensive effort from the responsible ones to enable new forms of funding, for example – we have already heard today – to favour sports sponsorship tax, as is possible in the cultural field. Mr Steger and Mr Sport Minister Strache have raised a lot of issues today and also in the Sports Committee in the Budget discussion, presented ideas and announced what they would like to implement. I think it's very encouraging. Addressed to the colleague Steger - I don't see her now -: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] There have probably been initiatives for women in sport in the past. I only remember the 100 percent sport association, which was co-initiated by the Minister of Sport in 2010. This is a very important institution, it is the competence center for equal opportunities in sport, does perfect work with high commitment, as well as the constantly growing women's sports association Mamanet Austria, which was founded almost two years ago with the help of the Ministry, an excellent initiative, President, Secretary-General, Federal Trainer perform excellent work. The Minister of Sports even mentioned Mamanet positively in the Sports Committee, which I am very pleased with too. There are still many such initiatives, you just need a little bit of good will, then you can actually find these sports activities. In the meantime, we have had several discussions with the Minister of Sports. I can see efforts and willingness to give sport more importance, appreciation and support – I assume that this is now also happening in the Ministry of Finance; then sport would certainly be helped – but many have said that already. Minister of Sports, you have been the seventh person responsible for the sports sector since I was allowed to be in the House. I hope that another essential step will be taken in the right direction for sport. We will observe this closely, follow how things develop, and always be a loud, but constructive, critical voice for sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15079	The next item is Mrs Friedl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15101	Dear Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the screens! The People's Procuratorate assists those people who do not feel fairly treated by an Austrian authority, no matter what nationality the complainant is, how old he is or where he lives. Companies, economic operators and associations can also use this help, and they do. Since 2012, the Public Prosecutor's Office has also been responsible for the protection of human rights in Austria and therefore controls wherever there can be restrictions on personal freedom, such as in judicial institutions, in nursing homes, as well as in homes where people with disabilities are accommodated. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Every year, the 20,000 people are approached by the public prosecutors because they have massive problems because they do not know and are urgently seeking help and support, which they also get there. In the case of about half of these complaints and requests, a test procedure must be initiated which is often lengthy and time-consuming. The problems that people are dealing with and which they are reporting are quite different and extremely diverse. Whether it's about the disability passport, the canal benefit fee, the construction police, land ordinations, over-retirement fees or also the integration aid for children: All that and much, much more are topics. ==References== July 2017 is also about reimbursing debt. The People's Procuratorate has taken over the processing of requests for the Home Victim Pension Act, a very difficult task, which requires much understanding and, above all, a lot of time for processing with the victims. Many have already reported to claim their pension rights, some will still do so, and that is a good thing. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know what the 78 employees of the People's Procuratorate reach year after year for the people. This, of course, is about people getting to their right, but also about getting money that is due to them. - Thank you for that. However, it seems to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that this institution will be deleted in two years' time and will, of course, be given the opportunity to support more people seeking help. My colleague Schimanek said earlier that the People's Procuratorate is the smallest unit we have. That's nice and good, but just this smallest unit still takes away something, that's, I think, already infam. However, they can push the 96 new planning sites from the chancellor and the 70 new planning sites from the vice chancellor to the eye. In addition, there will be 66 million baskets for Mr. Vice-Chancellor and for Mr. Chancellor. One explains what he needs, but the other remains guilty to us until the end. That's what you can put on the eye? Ladies and gentlemen of Schwarz-Blau, that is not all right, I think. That's what you want to carry, and that's what you're going to carry?- Oh, my God! Today, Mr. Wöginger said: “The change has begun.” So this is the new, promising way of the government, your parties: to get help from people, to take away important support and possibly money from them? This is your budget with heart and brain. Really? That's cold, that's computing, that's heartless, and that's especially embarrassing. - We won't carry that.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15159	The next item is the speech by Mr Einwallner. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15181	Madam President. Mr. Volksanwälter, Volksanwälte! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I will also refer to the public prosecutor's office and I can say that the discussions on the public prosecutor's budget in the Budget Committee were very constructive and also very factual. This shows, on the one hand, the broad acceptance of the People's Procuratorate – not only here over the party borders, but also in the population – and, on the other hand, how strongly this institution is anchored and recognized. The total budget of the Public Prosecutor's Office is EUR 11.4 million. This commutes in 2019. However, if you look – and I believe that is the important thing you have to do – at the budget path over several years, you notice that from 2020 there will be a decline in budget resources, which cannot be explained and cannot be comprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. Allow You're telling me: I have the feeling that in this Federal Government, the case figures of the People's Procuratorate will not fall, but rather rise if you look at how this government works. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] With a budget structure so stored that more than 60 percent of the total budget is spent on staff, you can see how important good and sufficient staff is. This is the key to ensuring that the public prosecutorship can continue to maintain the services it now provides with high acceptance. My colleague has already referred to the disappearance of the planned posts: In fact, it was planned that there would be four additional plans for the completion of the Home Victim Pension Act. Three have then become through a joint effort of the College of Public Prosecutors, but they are limited in time, only until 2019. If you compare this with how else you deal with planning sites – we have heard more often today how bloated the cabinet has become – then you should also say here at this point: Plans need to be re-occupied. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me conclude by saying: A good and independent public prosecutorship must be ensured in the medium and long term. This can only be done if we continue this budget path over 2018, 2019 and 2020 and the reduction of funds, as is now planned for 2020, does not come about. We can only call on you to refrain from doing so and to equip the public prosecutors with budget and staff. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15226	Mrs. Brinek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15247	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President, Mr Kraker! My two colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! They have listened very attentively to each other for many hours now, including the representatives of the Federal Government, so that I would like to thank the first, but heartily, for the supportive words for the work of the People's Procuratorate, especially for those of the employees in our office. I would also like to thank you. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Anger.]] In view of the advanced hour and your concentrated discussion, let me summarize: Failure to comply with human rights, taking into account the concerns of people with disabilities, is intended to ensure that the action of public administration, the action of offices and authorities is carried out. The processing of requests for special pensions should also be examined quickly and carefully. We do this in individual testing procedures and in official testing procedures. We do so, however, just as it expresses our objectives as a self-obligation, in particular efforts, specialist conferences, publications, reports, international exchange. With the national prevention mechanism, we are considered a role model and an international model, including with a view to efficient use of resources. We live by the use of resources and the use of independent, highly qualified staff. We hope that, even in the case of the non-taxability of most of the complaints made to us, we will also have the necessary staff for all these tasks in the future, beyond 2019. We are ready to think to Parliament about new tasks for us, only: with additional money, with additional, good staff! We see this as a legal obligation, we see it as moral and also as a humanistic commitment to the motto: first the people, then the paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15290	Thank you, Mrs. Volksanwalt. Next speaker: Mr. Volksanwalt Fichtenbauer. - Please, Mr. Volksanwalt.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15314	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. My dear colleagues! I can save myself from addressing in detail the numbering work, which is based on the budget. I would like to refer to the very valuable statements made by Mrs Schimanek and also by Mr Einwallner, and I should like to remind you that the People's Procuratorate and the Court of Auditors are an auxiliary body of the National Council. The People's Procuratorate is responsible for examining any misunderstandings of the administration, the fulfilment of the Opcat mandate and home-sacrifice matters, which the National Council has decided valuablely last year. In connection with the entire budget geography, I can repeat that we are the smallest body. Nevertheless, the public prosecutor's office probably cannot find a flaw in the performance of the legal tasks. On the contrary, we should be proud to have a very broad parliamentary and public acceptance, even with regard to our officials. Since we are the examining relief body of the National Council, I do what I have been able to do more often in the High House: There is a test gap, and it must be called again to close the test gap. What do I mean? – We have around 150 distributed legal entities, from large to small, asfinag, ÖBB et cetera, et cetera, in which the federal government is involved to 50 percent. The Court of Auditors is valuablely responsible for the distribution of legal persons, but not for the public prosecutor's office. I can point to this House again – if I may call it so – defect. Perhaps in the course of this legislative period it is still possible to close this gap. It is an advantage that the House should win. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15351	Thank you very much, Mr. Volksanwalt. Next speaker: Mr. Volksanwalt Herbs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15376	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to add a few comments on the necessary reform of the Home Victim Pension Act. Indeed, thousands of children and young people have been abused and abused under unimaginable conditions, in care families, in homes, in church institutions, even in hospitals – and this is the gap in the Home Victim Pension Act that does not include those affected and victims of hospitals. There can be no reparation at all. This suffering cannot be remedied, it can only be a recognition, a gesture. However, the 300 euro monthly pension is often very, very important for many of the people concerned at a higher age, so that after a very loaded life that is often disturbed by these traumatisations, they will be quite well overturned. Budgetary: We also expect a few hundred cases in the Home-Sacrifice Pension Commission. In terms of content, we have already sent all the details to the Ministry of Social Affairs and also to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the political groups. My appeal is therefore that the meeting of the Committee be held on 29 October. In May the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the to take the form of the Home Victim Pension Act on the agenda and to implement a decision. It's about tall, often seriously ill people. Two applicants have died; this is particularly tragic, which have not been able to experience this recognition anymore. Many things are important in politics, in Parliament, but I believe that this is a very special task and a very special responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15415	Thank you very much, Mr. Volksanwalt. The next item is Mrs Duzdar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15439	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators at the gallery! I would like to make it clear in advance: Mr Werner said today in his speech that the SPÖ had mistreated the public service in recent years and punished it with zero pay rounds. [[Abg. Werner: That's right, too!]] – Mr Werner, even if you are with the FPÖ, you could be fair and stick to the truth. The truth is that in 2017, there was a salary increase for all employees of the public service of 2.33 percent and a salary increase of 1.33 percent in 2016. If you call that a zero wage round, I already have to doubt your mathematical skills. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has already been said a lot to the People's Procuratorate today, and I believe it is also important to stress here that the Black and Blue Federal Government is also making savings of 400 000 euros in the medium-term budget for the Procuratorate. This is not a little money for an institution like the People's Procuratorate. I wonder if you are aware of the importance of this institution. It is an institution that is there for the citizens of the country, an institution that ensures that human rights are also respected in the public institutions. Especially when you look at how over the past few years the tasks and the competences of the public prosecutors have been gradually expanded, you can see how necessary it is to make further budgetary resources easier here. I would remind you that you, ladies and gentlemen, have deliberately chosen a gesture of responsibility here in this House. I am speaking here of the Home-sacrifice pension law, I am speaking here of the countless children of home who have been victims of abuse and violence. And precisely for this gesture of responsibility is the People's Procuratorate responsible. That's why it's just wrong to save at the public prosecutor's office. It simply shows nothing but that you are making a savings policy on the back of the broad population while you are bloating your devices. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, it is really nothing but an increase if you make yourself – the Federal Chancellor is no longer here – and claim that you would save by the system and not by people. It is exactly the opposite! The Federal Chancellor should explain why he actually needs new posts in his section 96. Explain I would like to ask the 20 000 long-term unemployed, whom you have deleted the employment programmes and which now have no job! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Herbert: For whom you are responsible! Shame!]] It is the Federal Chancellor's job to ensure that all people in our country have a good life. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And what happens? – Instead, you take the money of taxpayers and taxpayers and bluff your PR machinery unnecessarily! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: such a fool! If you'd been listening, you'd know!]] We know very well that it is important for you to control what is pressing the public, and that is what taxpayers and taxpayers can do. You, Mr Bundeskanzler, who is not here, have, for example, invented the Secretary-General. These cost the Austrians 10 million euros. You have awarded 51 million euros of play money for your resort. Now to you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are in contrast to the Federal Chancellor: You also do not sparingly deal with the money of the hardworking people in Austria. You'll get a few million euros for your playground. [[Abg. Rosary: That's not true! You can't expect, don't listen, you can't process it intellectually! You can't!]] Explain to us why you need 70 new posts in your resort, if you yourself say in your interviews that people of the ÖVP write your speeches! [[Abg. Herbert: He just explained that! Where were you? Lunch?]] Why Needed Then you're gonna have 70 new posts? – You said that in an interview. [[Vice chancellor Street: What? – That’s not true!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Madam President! Is there a doctor?]] They are inconspicuously moving 15 million euros into your budget, and there is not even a use for it. [[Abg. Rosary: Now it is so soon that it tears down the red fever thermometer!]] Did you really believe it didn't notice anyone? [[Abg. New builder: You do a bad research!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let us say one thing: We will pay very close attention to what happens to taxpayers' money over the next two years. [[Abg. Rosary: Which substances have you already released SPÖ-internal?]] One thing is definitely clear: You, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, do not save people, but you save the system.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15648	The next item is Mrs Steinacker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15690	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High Public Prosecutor's Office! President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated citizens! High house! I would like to take the floor very briefly on the sports budget because sports is a very, very big concern to me, and not only to me, but also to all those who are involved in sports in Austria, to the more than 9 000 associations that we are allowed to represent in Austria. The basis for this budget, as Mr. Vice-Chancellor presented to us in Chapter Sport, is the very ambitious government programme on sport, which aims to strengthen the importance of sports in Austria and to bring sport forward. This is despite the broad lines of the budget's objective of creating a balanced budget, the savings of the resorts and the objective of reducing the tax burden on citizens. Although this is in line, it has nevertheless succeeded in keeping sports promotion at the level, on which she has been in recent years. The sports budget will be around 130 million euros in 2019, 129 million euros in this year. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! You assured us and announced that you will take care of the valorization of sports promotion in Austria, and you are ready to fight for additional money to come into sports in Austria. I consider this to be very, very important, because not only does the money have to arrive at the sportsmen, in the clubs, where great things are being done within the framework of Ehrenamt, but it also has to be made sustainable for the development of sports in Austria, so that our athletes have better conditions and opportunities. – Thank you for taking care of this as well. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I consider it extremely important that in the budgets 2018 and 2019 we have put the emphasis on movement for our children and young people again. Moving children healthy has been a success project since 2009. Hundreds of clubs involved, attic associations move our children in over 150,000 sports units. This is a triple added value for our children: They have fun learning better in school, and a clear rejection is given to the trend towards obesity. The second priority of our promotion is the promotion of health. Mr Steger said: Each euro invested in sports saves 5 euros in health. Prevention is therefore a command of the hour in the promotion of sports. We stand with Fit Sport Austria GmbH with the quality seal for the highest quality in sports for young and old, for all people who run sports in our clubs. 550 000 volunteers in Austria do as much as we could never afford in sports. For this I say a sincere thank you to all our officials and volunteers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr. Vice-Kanzler, in the context of the sports strategy Austria, you have launched a cooperative process. The sports leaders of the Federal Government, countries, communities and the various associations are called upon to participate so that sport is promoted with the great aim of moving Austria to move people. Whether young or old, whether fitness or health sports, performance sports, top sports – sports in Austria should move and inspire everyone at the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15748	Thank you very much. There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[14:52:17]] UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15772	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of subheading 32: Art and culture. Mr Drozda is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15796	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the field of art and culture in the UG 32 456.6 million euros are planned for 2018, which is 455.1. In the following years, the budget remains at this level, according to the financial framework. That's the naked numbers, and they're fine vista once in a while. I also expressly welcome the announcement by my successor to the Committee on Culture to continue to make available the additional resources for the free scene. No institution is cut short and no savings are planned. I'll take him by the word! But what do these budget figures mean in concrete terms and in detail? What do they mean for the cultural nation of Austria, which is so much about to be conjured up? And what do they mean for the lives of artists? I can see three consequences. First: Cultural and art institutions will really have less money at their disposal in the next few years. We have made the effort to calculate this on the basis of your numbers. If you take 2017 as the starting point and base inflation of 1.9 percent, the cultural budget would have to be EUR 500 million in 2022. However, according to your financial framework, it is 42 million euros below. If one calculates the years 2018 to 2022, then 124 million euros are missing over this planning period. Do you know what this means for cultural creators who have to live by a few thousand euros, what it means for those who often work in voluntary regional cultural initiatives? Do you know what it means for a cultural institution whose personnel costs naturally increase with inflation? – This means no more and no less than that cultural workers, cultural workers, artists and artists will not participate in the currently very good economic situation, in the economy of 3 percent with an inflation of 2 percent. Secondly, it should be noted that you are pursuing an announcement policy that lacks a real, above all financial and human basis. The government programme has admittedly included some ambitious projects: the promotion of the enhanced discussion of art, the promotion of children and young people, the cultural foundation, the central depot, the strengthening of cultural initiatives. We have specifically questioned this in the Committee, and the truth is that there is no budget for all these projects in the government programme. The government program is therefore a Chimaire, a Potemkin’s village. Thirdly, the budget means a standstill, and I must also note that to a certain extent there is a lack of interest. We asked Federal Minister Blümel about his plans in committee. What was his answer? - I'll look at that. We have asked how this is with the further development of the Federal Museums. - I'll look at that. What about the reform of the Monument Office? - I'll look at that. What plans do you have in view of digitization? - I'll look at that. You, Federal Chancellor, asked the government to measure their actions. But where are the actions now? Where are the concepts? Where are the ideas in the field of culture? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The budget, ladies and gentlemen, is in figures cast policy, and dates are in time cast interest. In this context, it is only logical and consistent that the Federal Minister does not take part in the budgetary deliberations even today. To ask him to join the committee alone was hard work. Apparently, he has other priorities. Unfortunately, this is wrong, because cultural policy needs commitment, interest and passion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there is also a good news: We are working in Parliament. The next committee will take place at the beginning of May. There all the questions – Federal Monument, Federal Museums and so on – will be discussed. Perhaps until then, the Minister of State has already looked at all of this, then it makes sense to discuss it with him. - Best regards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: But he's already bringing the second committee together!]] - Yeah, that's all right. I've had two in the first half of the year, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15855	The next item is Mrs Großbauer's speech. I ask you, honourable Member, if you can get out in 3 minutes. [[Abg. Large-scale farmers are aware of this.]] Then I'll give you the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15882	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister! Dear spectators at home! High house! Mr Drozda! The facts that you are addressing here, the social situation of artists, the Federal Museums, the Federal Monument Office – this has not suddenly come up in the last 100 days – this is already a bit longer. [[Abg. Drozda: But everything is done in the drawer!]] I think last year, when you were Minister of Culture, you could have done a lot of things yourself. [[Abg. Kuntzl: He has prepared it all!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: He didn't do anything but post chess!]] We've been there for 100 days. We've come to do something, and we've started with it for a long time. We are finally going to a new time in cultural policy, not only in dealing with and in dialogue with artists and cultural representatives and in their appreciation. I can assure you: Both Minister of Culture Blümel and I have great interest, passion and commitment to culture in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For 2018, the cultural budget is EUR 456.6 million. This is part of an excellent budget, and as a cultural speaker, I thank you and congratulate you too, Minister of Finance. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The fear of the barrage, which you too, Mr Drozda, have partly shaken in the cultural scene, was therefore totally unfounded, the opposite is the case. [[Abg. Drozda: I didn't do that! That's not my style, Mrs. Colleague!]] The culture is a great concern to us, and you can expect a lot from us. Culture is extremely important for our country, for our society. It is a mirror, it is expressive, it is also important for integration, for tourism. Above all, culture is important to people in our country. This is what we look like at the many clubs throughout Austria, and it is also the rich cultural treasure and diversity in our country. Of course, it is very important to inspire the young generation for art and culture. This is a major concern to me and is also a very important chapter in the government programme. Of course, the opportunity for enthusiasm must be created in school. Especially in this area in the last decade has been very, very thinned. The situation in this area is partly alarming, I must say, when I see what is happening culturally in some schools or not. In any case, we are still world leaders in the field of culture, but we must now ensure that we continue to do so in the future, with budget, but of course also with ideas. At least my door is open to everyone. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e15969	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. In addition to the communications concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government, I announce: The Federal Minister for EU, Art, Culture and the Media May. Gernot Blümel will be represented by the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism Elisabeth Köstinger from 3 p.m. on. I am now interrupting the negotiations on division 32 so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:12]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Dipl.-Ing. (FH) Martha Bißmann, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism on “Integrated Climate and Energy Strategy” (673/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16024	We now come to the urgent debate on the written question 673/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading through the writing process. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16236	I now give the floor to Mr Martha Bißmann as the questioner on the grounds of the question. The founder of the request is in accordance with § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure a speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16257	Madam President. High house! Estimated Federal Government! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! "Instead of fundamentally reorientating climate policy, the government abandons objectives, timetables, measures, responsibilities and, above all, funding. Thus, the climate strategy is not worth the paper on which it is written,” criticises Adam Pawloff, climate and energy spokesperson of Greenpeace. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Without amendment, the current strategy of the Government of the Roadmap is in the climate disaster. The objectives are not right, tax conversion has been rejected, schedules and responsibilities are not defined. – Quote, according to Heinz Kopetz, former president of the World Biomass Association. Global 2000 says: ‘The draft does not contain a clear roadmap on how to achieve EU objectives [...]. Economic lobbyists seem to have shot huge holes into the plan for their clients.” Austria's best-known climate scientist Helga Kromp-Kolb says: Climate protection offers opportunities for business and society. Due to slow approach, Austria is playing out possibilities. Science should be much more involved. - Quote. This is just a small extract from many, many quotations that we have collected in the last few days. These quotes do not come from anyone, they come from designated climate and energy experts who are appalled by the environmental policy of this government. Some of the quote donors took place at the gallery today. Welcome to Parliament! I'm glad you're here. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] It is to be welcomed that there is at all a strategy that has been achieved in a relatively short time – Mrs. Bundesminister Köstinger, thank you very much for your commitment to thanking your co-author Transport Minister Norbert Hofer – yet the climate strategy with the overall note is not enough to judge, this shows the broad alliance of rejection and criticism of this strategy. We take this criticism very, very seriously. That's why we made this urgent request from the Pilz list today. This criticism does not lull us – like you, Mrs. Federal Minister. You will have this in the presentation of the climate strategy. (Parliament adopted the legislative They said that the criticism of environmental organisations would make you smile, because you wonder where this led to what the goal was. Should all responsibility be shifted to politics? – No, you want to emotionalize, raise people’s awareness of this topic, reach the whole population, and make every Austrian, every Austrian, a personal climate protector. – Do not shift responsibility to the population! Of course it is the policy that sets the course for the future! [[Congratulations with the Pilz list and with SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Of course you and your colleagues in the government and in the ministries have the responsibility! One thing you've done, Mrs. Federal Minister: Yes, you have emotionalized, but not the population for climate protection, but against this federal government and its environmental and climate policy. People are disappointed, they are anxious, and they are angry. They expect forward-looking, powerful, powerful Hands-on policy and not empty words. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] It is not five to twelve, it is two to twelve. A quote by Stefan Rahmstorf, Germany's most famous climate researcher, fits in this regard: We have two more years to save the world. 2020 must be the turning point. - Quote. I'm afraid most politicians haven't understood that yet. The global risk report of the World Economic Forum – 2016 issue – states that immigration was the biggest global risk in 2017. In the next ten years, however, water shortage and climate change are the biggest global risk. Climate change has long since arrived in our country: Intensive precipitation, strong hail, floods – two days ago we experienced this in Graz, my hometown. 300 firemen were in service. The whole city was flooded, standing under water. According to the official opinion of the Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics, this has to do with climate change, and we will experience it much, much more often. In this situation, Mrs. Federal Minister, do you condone the criticism of environmental organisations? For you as a sustainability minister, the environmental organisations should be allies, but you should listen to them. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Noll: Hello! Listen!]] But your real allies, and that's an unbearable state in this republic, are the interests of the pollution companies, the oil and natural gas industry, whose functional post-trophic your whole party hangs like an intoxicated addict to his needle. [[Congratulations with the list of mushrooms and with SPÖ and NEOS representatives]] [[Abg. New builder: You'll know that!]] Which former ÖVP Finance Minister today has a highly paid job at Gazprom, an OMC partner? Which former ÖVP Federal Chancellor is highly paid in the Supervisory Board of the largest German lignite company RWE? It is the ex-Finanzminister Hans Jörg Schelling and the ex-ÖVP Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. Her party has always depended on the tape of fossil energy. The tragedy is that this party, this dinosaur party, has for 30 years been representing the environmental ministers or environmental ministers. You started your office as Minister for the Environment in the anniversary year of the ÖVP Environment Ministry, Ms. Köstinger. 30 years of environmental protection policy have made our beautiful country, which is internationally known for the high environmental awareness of its population, the final highlight of Europe in the field of climate protection. [[Uh-run at the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rosary: I don't understand, the population is environmentally conscious and then still chooses the ÖVP? There's something going on in the argument!]] Don't misunderstand me, I'm very well aware, there are some in your ranks who want to make very knowledgeable, competent and highly motivated human policy progress here, but they haven't implemented themselves in your party yet. The influence of pollution companies in the ÖVP has a long tradition and continues to exist today. The “Small Newspaper” reported a few weeks ago that weighty representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry of Finance had knocked on the freshly baked Minister for the Environment. What was the point of this elitist coffee wreath? – It’s about the possible ambitious plans of the Minister. What happened? – The red pen was given to representatives from the Economic Chamber and the Ministry of Finance in order to be able to remove even unloving passages from the climate strategy. The ownership between the Fossillobby and the ÖVP and the government can also be read very nicely from an agreement concluded in 2009 under the then Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner, namely with two important fossil associations of the Chamber of Commerce, with the trade association of the mineral oil industry and the trade association of energy trade. This law-compliant agreement under the German Energy Efficiency Act under the EU Directive, which is in itself correct, impermanent, impelled a paragraph that states that the government will inadvertently abandon any burden on the oil industry. This agreement has not been terminated until today, and it is a suspicion that this is a reason why this ÖVP-FPÖ government is so on the brake when it comes to climate protection. [[Abg. Rosary: When was what you are quoting?]] – 2009, is still valid. [[Abg. Rosary: 2009, just for us...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, yes!]] But back to the integrated climate and energy strategy, because it is now about it. There are two numbers. [[Abg. Rosary: It's about fossils, they're even longer back!]] First of all: Time is missing here for a detailed critical analysis of this strategy. But a little bit I'm looking at the criticism. [[Abg. Rosary: But, 20 minutes are a lot of time!]] – I still have 10 minutes, my colleague, to bring in a lot more. There's even room for calls, but what it's not enough for, we'll talk about them later. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] Let us talk about what is not included in the climate strategy. There are two figures that are not included in them. These two figures, however, combined the climate strategy into two figures. First: It is twice the four: 4 terawatt hours of eco electricity and 4 million tons of CO2. One four concerns the four million tonnes of CO2. – Austria has committed itself to comply with the Paris International Climate Change Agreement, to make its contribution to halting climate change. This means, for Austria, that we will reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2040. For this we have a carbon budget or a greenhouse gas budget of 800 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents. With this carbon budget of Austria, we have to deal with it as carefully as with the State budget. Why don't we talk about zero deficit in the carbon budget? It is the same as in the case of CO2: What we don't save now falls at the expense of later generations. – Same principle, please just apply. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] In the current version of the climate strategy there is no carbon budget planning. There are only two targets: one for 2030, one for minus 36 percent of greenhouse gas emissions, and one for 2050, then we should go down to 0 percent. How is this going without a timetable and without budget planning?, I wonder and many others are wondering here in this country. The second four refers to 4 terawatt hours of eco electricity. This is about our goal in the strategy to build 100% eco electricity by 2030. Yes, nice and good, but again: Where's the schedule? Where are the annual objectives? These would have to be 4 terawatt hours of green electricity per year. These are figures from the Federal Environment Agency, which I did not invent. The next point is the real main criticism: the rejection of a socially acceptable, non-profit-making environmental tax reform. Without this tax reform, there is no climate change at all or only expensive and with very many bans. The ecological tax reform is a decades-old requirement which has a very, very broad support. Most of the economists support them, all environmental organisations and all companies that benefit from the energy transition in this country, that is, most of the economy. You yourself, Mrs. Minister, have been interviewed in the "ZIB 2" interview on 3rd June. April states that the CO2 tax and climate-friendly tax reform are issues that you will address. But what is this announcement worth if we do not find anything of it in the budget or in the climate strategy? Their reservations about the sensible and urgently needed environmental tax reform – and we are not the first in Europe to introduce them at all – are fear of a diffuse social added burden and alleged burden on the economy. These are presupposed reasons and that is also fundamental, that can be proved everything. For decades, ÖVP-led governments have resisted the ecological tax reform with their hands and feet. Why? – Because they want to protect and favour dirt companies. The ancient Fossillobby is afraid of climate-friendly reforms. I would like to address another topic, my favorite topic: oil heating. They want to ban this, and from 2020 on, the new construction will be banned. It's both pious, but not very ambitious. Today, the Netherlands has adopted the ban on natural gas connections in new buildings, valid from 1st century onwards. July of this year. It's ambitious. Okay, anyway, you want to ban oil heating, that's also in the government program. While you address this centrally in the climate strategy, you do not intend to abolish heating oil privilege; a total of up to 4.7 billion euros per year flow from the state side to such contradictions. Such subsidies should have been adapted through the climate and energy strategy, including in the government programme. I say "must have" because obviously this was one of the points that the oil lobby has been making, and now it is about evaluation. As a learned Austrian, I know exactly what that means: Let's look! and change nothing – and so on, time is not enough for criticism. [[Abg. Rosary: Then I wonder why the opposition always wants to evaluate everything!]] We now ask you in all urgency, Minister Hofer, Mrs Köstinger: Create a working group together with the Ministry of Finance to develop a concept for a business-neutral, socially compatible and ecological tax reform according to Swedish model and work it into the climate strategy! Announce agreements with professional associations from 2009, which prohibit the government from imposing any burden on the oil and gas industry! Let us give parliamentarians the opportunity to participate in the completion of the integrated climate and energy strategy, in an appropriate framework. A concrete proposal will be submitted to you in the next few days. Now a very important point: the OMV. Help and all your colleagues in the government of the OMV to change their business model to time to oil and gas! The OMV is a major economic player and an important employer. You can say that the Republic of Austria holds 31 percent of the shares of OMV. This is also your responsibility, now that the energy section has been transferred to your ministry. Dear Mrs Köstinger, Mrs Federal Minister, you are now in charge, namely as a minister, but also as a mother becoming. What do you want to tell your child later? I was once responsible for environmental protection in this country, and I have done everything in my power to do our part to protect this earth from the collapse of climate to leave you an intact world? Or would you like to tell your child later: I would have liked to do everything I could to protect the earth from the collapse of climate, but I was apparently not powerful and courageous enough to oppose the fossil associations and fossil corporations, the pollution companies whose short-term profits were more important than the survival of humanity!Unknown term type: "%s".? I repeat: It's two before twelve. We have two more years to live up to our commitments to save this world. Help your party cut the tape of fossil energy companies! Open a new era in the ÖVP! In order not to die out one day like dinosaurs, this party must become a human party from the dinosaur party, a real social People's Party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] And remember, the dinosaurs were once big, powerful and seemingly invincible. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tiny]] [[Abg. New builder: And green!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of Abg. New builder) You don't know that!]] Take advantage of the opportunity that will open up to you through the adoption of the EU Presidency, the Presidency of the Council, to launch the end of the fossil age in Europe with an ambitious climate and energy strategy. I believe in you. They are courageous, powerful and skillful enough to assert themselves against the contaminants and fossil lobby powers and break the long tradition of the ÖVP Group legislation. Do it! Believe in yourself, write story! I, Martha Bißmann, the whole list of mushrooms and our allies in the population and in Parliament are very happy to help you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16510	To answer the question, Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger spoke. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16532	Mr President. Appreciate High House! We have together with Federal Minister Norbert ==References== April presented the #mission 2030, i.e. the draft of an integrated climate and energy strategy of the Austrian Federal Government. Together we have done something that has not actually been successful for decades: With this strategy, we have presented an important milestone in the implementation of our government programme – and this after about 100 days. In this project we are no more or less concerned with the long-term reconstruction of our energy system, so that we can, in particular, meet the challenges for climate protection. Science agrees that due to the rise in average global temperatures, we need to reduce significantly, especially to limit the increase to below 2 degrees. At present, we are at an average global increase of around 1 degree compared to the pre-industrial period. The Paris decision can well be described as historical. Austria was one of the first countries to sign the COP21 climate agreement. States have pledged to achieve net zero emissions at a global level by half the century. The remaining CO2 emissions from fossil fuels must then be compensated by carbon sinks. Austria must therefore reduce emissions from sectors outside emissions trading by around 36 percent by 2030 compared with 2005. This is also the essential goal that we pursue with the #mission 2030. In the draft strategy, we address those sectors that most need to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gases. On the one hand, this is one of the main sources of transport with 46 percent. We want to save 7.2 million tonnes of CO2 in this sector by 2030. In the building sector, we see a reduction potential of around 3 million tonnes of CO2 by 2030. We will take targeted measures to achieve this reduction, especially in the sectors. We have also set ambitious energy targets in the strategy. The share of renewable energy will be increased to 45 to 50 percent by 2030. With our 2020 target, we are 34 percent in this respect and have already achieved this goal almost. In the field of electricity generation, we even intend to cover the entire domestic consumption by 2030 by means of renewable energy. We know that this is an objective that is enormously ambitious, but we believe that the expansion of renewable energies is really something very much in the future that makes sense. We want to improve energy efficiency by 25 to 30 percent compared to 2015. I know that this goal is also very ambitious. The electricity sector will thus play an extremely important role in the future energy system. As an essential prerequisite for the energy transition, we will bring an energy law new to rail by 2020. This is intended to include the previous eco electricity law, but also other aspects including the heat sector, as well as the feeding of biogas and hydrogen into the natural gas distribution system. The key to success in this respect is, of course, interconnected with the sector. Gas will play a role in the energy system, but increasingly on the basis of green gas, in which, above all, Austrian companies are already technology leaders. Three main forms of transport are being pursued: on the one hand, the shift of goods to environmentally friendly modes of transport, particularly rail, and on the other hand, the strengthening of public passenger transport, on the other hand, on the other. like an e-mobility offensive. Only with these three elements will it be possible to reduce CO2 emissions from transport by 36 percent by 2030. That is why I have also developed the strategy together with my colleague, Federal Minister Hofer. I should like to thank you at this point for the excellent cooperation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We plan important initiatives in the building sector in cooperation with the federal states. The thermal renovation has to come back into swing. A rehabilitation rate of an average of 2 per cent will be started and targeted for the period 2020 to 2030. In addition, we will launch a 100 000 roof programme for photovoltaics and small storage plants, which will significantly support the 100 percent renewable energy target in the electricity sector. People are to become increasingly independent of their energy suppliers – that is our big goal – and, above all, to produce electricity. That is, every house can become its own power plant. It is also a very important concern for us to get out of the use of oil boilers in the medium to long term. We want to set attractive conditions and incentives for more people to replace their existing and outdated oil heating by heating based on renewable energy. It is also clear that funding efficiency in Austria needs to be significantly improved. It may not be that one and the same measure will continue to be supported by two or three local authorities. There has to be a clear definition. The promoter must have clarity about who he can turn to. Therefore, I also assume that we will be able to move significantly more through the existing funding instruments of the Federal Government and the countries. We also want to develop new financial instruments that bring private investors into the boat. The government programme provides for this, among other things, Green Bonds. We work together with the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of appropriate instruments, which will also support us regardless of the budget for climate protection. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already achieved a great deal in climate protection in recent years. We want to build on these successes, so we also need to increase our efforts. The design of the #mission 2030 is only the beginning. We are now in a consultation phase. We will be holding some high-ranking Stakeholder rounds in the next few weeks. We will still allow Parliament's groups, through the National Climate Change Committee, to make a concrete contribution. Of course, some new ideas and proposals can also be expected. The aim is to have a decision in the Council of Ministers at the end of May, thus setting out the way and strategy by 2030. I can now come to answer your questions – all in all, 37 questions were asked by Mrs Bißmann's urgent question on "integrated climate and energy strategy": Questions 1 and 2: Austria will meet its climate protection commitments in the next decades. This means that we will reduce our emissions by 36 percent compared to 2005. One thing is clear: We must act at a global level and reduce the high costs of climate change, as the costs of non-negotiation are alarming. The weather and climate damage in Austria occurs on an annual basis. 1 billion euros. Austria's economy will have to cope with climate damage of up to 8 billion euros annually by 2050. According to the Austrian Assessment Report 2014 of the Austrian Panel on Climate Change, the rise in temperature in Alpine Austria will be about twice as high as the global one. Questions 3 and 4: In the building sector, CO2 emissions have been reduced by around 4.5 million tonnes since 2005. The initiatives for thermal renovation and the use of renewable energies thus have an effect. Although emissions have been slightly reduced in the transport sector since 2005, we are still facing very large challenges. In 2015 and 2016, greenhouse gas emissions increased again. The main reasons were weather conditions, i.e. cold winter, where more heat was produced, and also economic conditions. Climate protection is a great opportunity for the domestic economy. We have clear strengths, particularly with regard to renewable energy – from hydropower to biomass to hydrogen technology. E-mobility is also enhanced as a train horse for small innovative companies. In this area, we clearly want to become a leader of innovation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Question 5: The entire Federal Government, like me, is clearly familiar with the Paris Agreement, which, among other things, provides for a drastic reduction in emissions. The aim is to achieve net zero emissions at global level in the second half of the century. For this reason, it was important to make a commitment to a decarbonisation path by 2050 in the preparation of the climate and energy strategy. With the presentation of the draft strategy, an important start has now been made to actively involve the population and to push forward the energy transition together. On question 6: The Federal Government will, in any case, also devote itself to environmentalisation in the context of a next tax reform. The aim is also to abolish counterproductive incentives. Questions 7 to 11: The #mission 2030 aims to meet Austria's obligations. These are also in line with the nationally determined contribution reported by the EU together with the Member States under the Paris Convention on Climate Change. By 2023, the so-called Global Stocktake will negotiate possible targets at a global level. Of course, the #mission 2030 will also be subject to regular review. This is also foreseen in the final chapter for ongoing monitoring. The strategy is the starting point for a longer-term energy policy reorientation. Question 12: The funding landscape in Austria needs to be made much more efficient and, above all, more effective in the future. One and the same climate action should not, as before, be promoted by two or three regional authorities at the same time, in particular the objective of simplification. Achieving 100 percent renewable power requires not only budget financing, with the Energy Act New from 2020 onwards, and we need to bring the individual energy technologies to the market. A particularly important topic for the future is the mobilization of private capital for climate purposes. This participation of society in climate-related projects is foreseen under the Green Finance keyword in the government programme and also in the #mission 2030. On the question 13: Between 2003 and 2012 a total of 404,8 million euros were paid for the purchase of 71.5 million tonnes of CO2 emissions. The portfolio of the Austrian JI/CDM programme comprises 74 projects in 29 countries worldwide. Questions 14 to 16: Currently, some 700 000 oil heaters are still in operation in Austria, including commercial plants. In 2016 there were still about 613 000 oil heaters in the main residence. This corresponds to a share of about 16 percent of all main residences. I see the private economic support of the oil boiler exchange very critically. Together with the federal states, we are developing a heat strategy aimed at achieving a significant reduction in the energy needs of buildings and the replacement of fossils by renewable energy sources within this legislative period. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the design of the #mission 2030, we therefore propose a so-called renewable offer when replacing oil boilers, because we want to advance the end of fossil heat energy. Oil heating in the new building will be prohibited from 2020 and a socially acceptable exit from the stock will be initiated from 2025 onwards. An increase in the mineral oil tax on fuel oil to the diesel level is currently not specifically thought of, especially as this could have a social-political impact. On the question 17: Ensuring cost-truth plays a central role in the climate and energy strategy. At European level, negotiations are currently under way on the reform of the European electricity market and the future support regime for renewables. These requirements are also intended to help ensure cost-effectiveness in the energy market. I call at EU level for a Europe-wide minimum price for CO2, so that the renewables have better opportunities on the market. We have also complained against subsidies for the Hinkley Point nuclear power stations in England and Paks II in Hungary, because these subsidies are also distorting the EU energy market and are therefore clearly opposed. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the question 18: We have created the basis for an even faster expansion and reduction of the waiting list of promoters, especially in the field of wind power with the Kleine Ökostromnovelle 2017. A special quota of EUR 45 million for the reduction of the wind turbine waiting list has been provided. By the end of 2017, 112 applicants intend to use this funding rail. This corresponds to an installed power of 805 megawatts. In 2018, a total of 68.4 million euros are available for wind power. Existing eco-electric production will be put in place by 2020 in order to support more renewable energy and at the same time to generate more electricity cost-effectively for each funding euro. Even stronger than before we make the renewable fit for the market and the market fit for renewables, through market premiums, through investment promotions and – where it makes sense – through tenders. Questions 19, 20 and 27: The three agreements were then reached on the basis of the 2006 Energy Efficiency Preliminary Directive. They were a desired and appropriate instrument for the first time by the end of 2016, in which individual industry organisations committed themselves to concretely quantified savings and efficiency measures. However, with the EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 and the entry into force of the Austrian Energy Efficiency Act in 2015, the self-commitment system was replaced and replaced by a legal obligation system. From that point on, logically all these agreements were obsolete because the essential content was regulated by law. However, the agreements shall be without prejudice at the latest to the savings obligations laid down in Section 4 at the end of 2016. On question 21: The agreements were signed by Dr. Alfred Maier, then head of the department. Questions 22 to 24: As has been said, it has become obsolete with the introduction of the Energy Efficiency Act of this paragraph and the entire agreement. The agreements were publicly presented at the time and were publicly accessible. On question 25: By the beginning of 2015, annual short information on the state of savings was prepared by the Energy Agency. As the voluntary agreements were subsequently replaced by the Energy Efficiency Act, no further evaluations have been carried out. On the question 26: The question of the size of member companies of individual trade associations of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce is to be asked, or in this context, to be read on the homepage of the individual trade associations. On the question 28: The voluntary agreements were then publicly presented. In addition to the former coalition partner, a broad public was also informed. I would like to make it clear once again: There were no side-by-side agreements or secret agreements. The agreements were presented to the public several times and accompanied by press releases. They were also available on the homepage and therefore not particularly secret. On question 29: Voluntary agreements were concluded with the association of gas and heat supply companies, the trade association of the mineral oil industry and the Energy Trade Association and the association of Austrian electricity companies. Questions 30 and 31: In the past, I am not aware of any funding from the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism for the mineral oil industry. At the moment I can exclude these too. On question 32: The question of eco-social tax reform is not related to the voluntary agreements made at that time. Regardless of that, the #mission 2030 provides options for the adjustment in the control system. We are in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and, as has already been said, we want to evaluate all counterproductive incentives and incentives, both in the government programme and in the #mission 2030. On questions 33 and 34: These questions are actually addressed to the IWO. From the Ministry's point of view, it is clear that we want to take measures to force an exit from oil heating. We have clearly stated this in the #mission 2030. Our roadmap provides for a new construction for oil heating with 2020 and a socially compatible exit from the oil heating stock from 2025 onwards, starting with heatings over the age of 25 years. For this we are in very close agreement with the federal states. On question 35: At the latest with the expiry of the saving obligation laid down in § 4 with the end of 2016, the agreements shall be irresistible. This is known by all parties and also by trade unions. None of the four trade associations currently see any legal effect. In conclusion, on this subject: I strongly reject the accusations of the list of mushrooms. These are drawn to the hair and to the brink of conspiracy theory. A simple demand in the resort would have been enough to get clarity on this matter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On question 36: One of my first major projects in the context of the reorganisation of the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism is the creation of a new climate section. It can also be derived from the importance of climate policy in general and the achievement of the objectives of the Paris climate agreement in particular for me. On the question 37: This question can be answered clearly and clearly with No. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16924	Mrs Rossmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e16945	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, with these accusations and the accusation of conspiracy theory, you go to a dead end. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Little: Yes, exactly!]] The question which questions we ask and what urgent questions we ask when, Mrs Federal Minister, we still decide and not you! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Eh!]] When it comes to, Mrs. Federal Minister, you blame us for conspiracy theories – please listen to me! – so I can only tell you: [[Abg. Hafenecker: Do you even have a clubman?]] [[Abg. Rosary: That was a compliment! You have learned well from your Spiritus Rector!]] It is you, Mrs Federal Minister, who is fueling these conspiracy theories because you have not informed the public about it! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] So it's your failure, and on the other hand, it's not the accusation you're making against us, that we'd put conspiracy theories in the world here. [[Abg. Rosary: That's not an accusation, that's a fact!]] [[Abg. Little: Exactly!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That's ridiculous, just like what you're saying is ridiculous. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. New builder: This is Peter Pilz tradition!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You've made a few confessions here, that's nice. Yes, of course: Paris Convention on Climate Change. We know – and I remember very well, I was there when we ratified this here in the House – that, unfortunately, nothing has happened since the ratification of the agreement in this House in Austria. Yes, now there is an integrated climate and energy strategy – at least – but an important milestone, as you have said, Mrs Minister, I do not see it honestly. [[Abg. Smoking: Can't you read?]] Is it a coincidence, that almost all climate and energy experts will have this integrated climate and energy strategy after its appearance on 3rd June. Did more or less shatter in the air on April? – I would rightly say that if you were to take the issue of climate change and climate change seriously, you would have to present a big throw. To present a big throw meant that you also have to present concretes. I have listened very closely to you now, but I have not heard concrete and concrete measures. I have also not found timetables for the implementation of the very modest objectives. So when you talk about the objectives being ambitious, I say that these objectives are by no means ambitious. I'm not the only one who claims it. But there is not only a lack of concrete measures and the specific timetables – also negotiated with the local authorities – but, of course, there is no money. This is enough to take a look at the double budget 2018/2019. I wonder, Where's the money? The budget for environmental protection, you know, Mrs Federal Minister, will be cut in the next few years. So where does the implementation of this integrated climate and energy strategy take place? I am now bringing you a concrete example. I am indeed passionate cyclists – for many decades, by the way – not only for leisure purposes, but also in the city and elsewhere. [[Abg. Bösch: That connects me to you!]] [[Abg. Rosary: This is also the only thing that connects you!]] But if you want to double the share of cyclists – and this is a great goal that you have set there – then you also have to take concrete measures, of course this will not happen. We need more bike paths, so we need safer bike paths. In the urban regions, however, we need fast connections between the periphery and the centres. All of this does not exist in Austria – unlike other countries, such as the Netherlands or Denmark. But if you want to achieve this and if you want to bring more people on the bike, Mrs. Minister, then you have to take more money or even money into your hands. It won't be without money! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] That's a chance, of course. They have also said for themselves that the implementation of climate action has opportunities: sustainable growth, job creation. But we need, once again, concrete measures, actually a set of measures. I also miss this set of measures. Some of the approaches you have mentioned: The Small Ecostrom Act – that's a little too little, you have to knock a little more: For example, an eco electricity law in the Federal Republic of Germany or a real energy efficiency law or concrete measures to exit from oil and gas heating would be an approach; the announcement alone is not. Or – and then I will go a little bit further – the abolition of environmentally harmful subsidies on the one hand and an eco-social tax reform on the other. I'm starting with the environmentally harmful subsidies. There is a 2016 study by the Austrian Economic Research Institute, which found how high these environmentally harmful subsidies are. There came out the amazing sum of 3.8 billion to 4.7 billion euros. Wow! Not a little, I say. Now you have set yourself the goal in this double budget – the Minister of Finance is now no longer here – to delete the funding. But nothing will be deleted at all in the case of these promotions. In any case, I have not been able to discover anything in the budget. There are now things in the field of energy supply and energy use, such as energy charging for energy-intensive plants: 450 million euros, manufacturer privilege for the producers of energy products: over 500 million euros. Or let's take some big pieces from the transport sector: The diesel privilege costs about 700 million euros, which is a 700 million advantage. Mineral oil tax exemption for kerosene – that's a fossil, it's gone for a long time! –: EUR 330 million; VAT exemption for international flights: EUR 185 million; flat rate: 560 million. I'll just say something about this premise. I don't mean you should get rid of this, but you have to change it. Or the totally unnecessary advantage for the service car tax, that is a privilege for service providers. We don't need all of this, Mrs. Federal Minister. Some of these subsidies are really due for a change. The diesel privilege – get away with it! With the approximation of the mineral oil tax on diesel and petrol! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] The Möst liberation for kerosene – get away with it! What have you foreseen in the budgets for 2018 and 2019, for which the Minister of Finance is so praised? – The halve of the flight. This is from an ecological point of view an insanity, yes, an insanity in reality! The tax exemption for international flights – detto. The shuttle fee urgently needs a reform. We know that this pendulum fee is nothing but a dispersal fee, which results in extremely high follow-up costs. [[Abg. Jewellery: Such a fool what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Haider: Explain this to a pendler once!]] If we want to change something here, we need an accountability that is gradually going to restrict private transport. You say, Mrs Federal Minister, you want to do something in the field of environmental taxation. For the economists, this question has actually been discussed for a hundred years. There was a certain economist, Arthur Cecil Pigou, who showed in 1920 exactly what to do when the market fails. There is no passover in the nineteenth century, nor in the two-thousandth century. The EIA has repeatedly argued that we do not want new taxes when it comes to the CO2 tax, which is supported by almost all international organisations, by all the economists. Yes, with this argument you are still in the way today. If you say no new taxes, then you will not continue on the issue of ecologisation and on the issue of combating climate damage. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Of course, it is not a question of introducing new taxes and thereby increasing the tax rate, no, it is a question of returning to businesses and households, in a socially sound form, what comes back to higher taxes. The whole thing is called eco-social tax reform. I represented this over many, many years when I was still with the Greens. [[Call the FPÖ: You should have stayed there!]] Even before I went into politics, I wrote a lot of publications. But what are you doing together with the FPÖ on this issue? – They represent industrial interests. That's probably where Mr. Eder from the Voestalpine stands in your way. The OMC is probably in your way too, but so you will not continue on the issue of climate change. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Here, Mrs. Federal Minister, we need a rethinking. So throw Don't give us the need for rethinking, please think about it! Then it will and could actually succeed in finally making an eco-social tax reform, which does not clear the word, but deserves the word clumsy. With an eco-social tax reform, which is clumsy, we can also take a step further on the climate issue – a significant step. Take this opportunity, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17211	Mr Johannes Jestingenschlager came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17236	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the government! It's amazing, Mrs Bißmann, you really called the new People's Party dinosaur. I have a different picture, because this political court of grace, of which the old farmer has run away and where the servants are now fighting for the inheritance, really throws a bad picture. The Federal Minister pointed out earlier that this urgent request would not have been needed to address this information. This shows that with information we do not want to be behind the mountain, but that we represent it all very transparent and that you would have been able to get it all with simple requests in the resort for a long time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] However, we have heard from your group today that the debate is fad and that no one knows the laws that we decide here, and that no one has read them either. – I ask you to read this, because this is the climate and energy strategy that the Federal Government has presented. [[keeping a copy of the climate and energy strategy up to date]] For example, you might already read on page 2: “Design the climate and energy strategy of the Austrian Federal Government before the consultation process. The final version will be presented in June 2018. Join us at www.mission2030.bmnt.gv.at.” That means that this is a basis for the discussion. The civil associations you said would not be allowed to take part in it, and everyone is allowed to participate. I would also like to encourage those who follow us here today to make their contribution. But we have several topics. They say the overall approach is missing. On page 19 it is quite clear: “The energy system needs to develop further. A key aspect of change is sector coupling. This means that so far separate systems (power, heat, mobility, industry) are linked." This is the only way to bring in renewables, especially in the energy sector. On the question of planning security – this is something essential for operators of renewable energy plants – stands stone and clear inside: “Existing wind and hydro power plants and highly efficient biomass plants in agriculture and industry will continue to contribute in the future to achieving the 100% renewable electricity target and heat supply from renewable sources.” This also stands inside – if [[Abg. Rossmann: Which side?]] They would make the effort to read this information as well. [[Abg. Bißmann:... Budget! ...there's too little in it!]] The budget has also been addressed and this is not integrated into the budget. Page 33: “In order to ensure a cost-effective use of resources, climate and energy-related funding instruments should be regularly reviewed for their cost-effectiveness and impact-orientedness.” – This shows that we are progressing with these issues. If you want, you can also read the tasks on page 42. I could list them to you: “Strengthening environmental and climate protection investments. Strengthening energy know-how in SMEs through energy management systems.” And, and, and. But there are also concrete objectives – it has also been criticised that they are not present here. Among the lighthouse projects 5 and 6, for example, the building sector is located. There, as has already been mentioned, the objective is to “successfully replace the fossil [n] energy sources with renewable energy. Over the next 20-30 years, oil heating will be completely removed from the heat market.” On page 53 Lighthouse 6: “100,000 roofs photovoltaic and micro memory programme [...]; Own electricity tax – and this is also a bit of a tax-effective – and “removing investment barriers in residential and plant law”, because we are here in a matter that also goes into many other areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bißmann.]] Finally, I would like to explain to you that we are very much on the path of European objectives and take the Paris Agreement very seriously. Mrs. Köstinger was more than known in her time as a member of the European Parliament in Brussels for not submitting herself to large lobbys, but for having been particularly active in the energy sector for the future. “This strategy, in particular the targets, is the basis for the establishment of the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan for Austria and the definition of strategic objectives in the five dimensions of the Energy Union.” – you see, this is best integrated into the European systems. Your urgent request only has the value of urgency when it comes to climate change, it is always urgent. Nevertheless, we could have discussed this with the environment budget tomorrow. However, I would like to thank both ministers – including the Transport Ministers – for being here today, because this shows the value of climate and environmental policy in this government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17310	Mr Uwe Feichtinger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17332	Mr President. Mrs Umweltminister! Mr Verkehrsminister! Unfortunately, the actual de facto Environment Minister has already left the hall, namely the Minister of Finance, who is missing us today in this debate; it would have been nice to have him here today. [[Call at the FPÖ: He can't be here all the time!]] Colleagues have just said that discussing the climate is always good and necessary; I am right in giving it. The urgent request offers us once again opportunity to do so. Perhaps short of the genesis of this integrated climate and energy strategy: After the ratification of the Paris climate agreement, all of us were aware of the need for action, but your predecessor, Mr Rupprechter, has unfortunately not shown any activity in this matter until his retirement from the office. This has led to our already joining forces as a coalition partner of the ÖVP in the spring of 2017, and at that time he has always promised the strategy by the middle of 2017, but never presented it. So she disappeared in a drawer in the ministry. The drawer has now been opened, and see, the #mission came out 2030. Mrs. Federal Minister! On several occasions, in the Committee on the Environment, Budgetary and Economic Affairs, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has promised that Parliament will be properly involved until the decision of this Climate and Energy Strategy is taken. I can remind you to keep your promise. They have also mentioned the National Climate Change Committee – there is just no date for a meeting. With the integrated climate and energy strategy, the Federal Government has therefore presented a mix of problem descriptions, targets by 2030, partly by 2050, of action packages, lighthouse projects – but always subject to the agreement of the Federal Minister for Finance – and proposals for possible activities in an unstructured manner. This strategy paper also serves as a basis for the preparation of national energy and climate plans, which Austria must forward to the EU Commission this year and should have already been sent in December 2017. The stated objectives for the year 2030, which you mentioned earlier, are in line with the minimum EU legal requirements. Ambition looks different from our point of view. In this context, a cross-sectoral approach has also been defined as sub-targets for the transport and building sector. By 2030, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 31 percent and 37 percent in the building sector is expected to occur. Considering that fossil installations are also used for electricity stabilisation in 2030, the targets for an import-export balance are simply not met. For the third largest issuer, agriculture, no reduction targets are defined at all, as there is a “near supply conflict”. In view of the overproduction of food for export, this is a very questionable wording, Mrs Bundesminister. Also, in the further presentation of the strategy, agricultural contributions – except in the case of bioeconomics and biomass – remain unthinkable, how all objectives are not binding at all. How the objectives are to be achieved will remain open, because the structure of this paper does not allow for any measures to be assigned to the objectives. It is also not at all understandable how the package of measures, if they are present at all or will be present – many points still remain subject to the agreement of the Ministry of Finance – can contribute to achieving the goal. It has also been called the 100 000 roof PV programme, a lighthouse project of the strategy and the only concrete measure to increase eco-electric production. This can be well illustrated, because with this programme alone we cannot achieve the 100 percent renewable energy target. In addition, this 100 000 roof programme is a continuation of investment through the Eco electricity Act and is thus not a special programme. Many topics are discussed in detail by sketching current developments and problems and by expressing the basic will to change. In the paper there are very similar statements in many places, in several places even verbatim statements, so Copy-and-paste has done good services. To address further content of the strategy makes little sense at this point. There was no political vote yet. For example, it could be mentioned that the Federal Government in the new building will no longer allow fossil energy sources in 2020, which, in addition to natural gas, will, of course, also exclude district heating. Alternatives for agglomerations are not mentioned in the strategy. Since the implementation of this project is almost impossible, we assume that these things will still fly out before the publication or the final editorship. On the subject of financing, one of the impressions is that the integrated climate and energy strategy is being misused as a kind of sluggish advertising for fiscal consolidation and a permanent reduction in debt. Apart from the fact that, after a first rough analysis of the budget, there is no central energy and climate action in the double budget – we will talk about it even tomorrow – the budget for the thermal rehabilitation and budgeting of the Climate and Energy Fund is stagnating. Climate action can only be implemented if the Ministry of Finance and thus the actual Minister for the Environment agrees. That means that de facto no longer make the trade ministers of climate policy, but the Ministry of Finance, and this has properly set up the Rotstift. [[Abg. Smoking: The Ministry Law should be known by now!]] Instead of adapting the tax and support systems to meet the climate and energy objectives, as is usually foreseen, their adjustment should either be sought or evaluated. This is what we call compromise formulations. In principle, new measures which impose additional burdens on the public budget may only be put in place if others are saved. Under the rule, it can be noted that neither the ministries in the field of climate policy have a voice to speak or that there are scopes for measures to protect climate change in the budget or that the strategy itself is based on. Conclusion: Most of the topics except transport are extremely general, not so concretely formulated as to be able to determine later where success has been achieved and where not. As always, there is a structured procedure in which one can understand how the package of measures fits the objectives. Just as it is now, one can hardly judge the strategy and not monitor it at all. In addition, there is no budgetary margin to actually implement climate change measures. As has already been said: Claim and reality are far apart.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17380	Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17401	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Briefly replicating the comments made by Mr Feichtinger: At the motivation of your speech you have already noticed on the one hand how intense and how important you take this topic. On the other hand, it has happened to me a little like a reflection concerning the past federal government, because the Ministry Act explicitly states who is responsible for which field, and that is not the Minister of Finance – for all eternity. In the environmental field, this is the responsible Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Rossmann: And the budget gives the framework of the possible! This also applies to traffic!]] Okay, let's get to the emergency. Mrs Bißmann, you have really tried to break down this climate and environmental strategy and give it the best. In the final effect, however, it is noticeable that your own club is disintegrating itself with the finish of your clubman. And then Mr. Oberlehrer Rossmann comes out and presents us, how great, how great and how superinstructive the list of mushrooms moves in this house. [[Abg. Haider: How the Greens used to!]] So quite honestly: Let's stick to the homework! You would have had the opportunity to address a question to the Federal Ministers as usual, and you would have been given the best knowledge and conscience to answer them. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have the goals. Let's go into the goals! 36 percent less CO2 in the coming years until 2030, electricity is expected to come almost 100 percent from renewable energy by 2030. The share of renewable energy sources, currently 35 percent, is expected to increase to 45 to 50 percent. Production of heat is expected to be 100 percent from renewable energy by 2050. All of this can be read in paper on the climate and energy strategy. And you're pretending to reject everything from your hand. I ask you: Please read, read meaningfully, and then render accordingly! [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, that's good!]] [[Abg. Kassinger: This helps a lot!]] That would be a wishful goal of us, right, yes. Another point: Heating, hot water, cooling in the buildings. Around 27 percent of the total Austrian energy consumption is used for this area; there is also a reduction of around 16 percent. These are all the measures that we support in this climate and energy strategy. The next point I forgot to mention earlier: This paper has now been filed, and we have time until June 2018 to deal with the content accordingly, and we also have the opportunity to put in place appropriate measures and initiatives. You are all right, quite cordially invited to present your ideas and your innovations accordingly, which is granted to everyone. Transport has already been mentioned, the traffic should be CO2-neutral by 2050. The renovation rate of the buildings is currently 1 per cent and is expected to be increased to 2 per cent. Also an essential factor and a suggestion: The tax on own-power generation is to be abolished. All these are measures that we have incorporated into this climate and energy strategy. I'm convinced: We're on a very, very good way. I would like to thank both ministers and both government parties for their intensive debate on this subject, and I am glad that we have launched such a good paper.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17481	Member of Parliament Michael Bernhard has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17511	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to discuss the issue of the integrated climate and energy strategy, which we are discussing as a result of Mr Bißmann's urgent question. Why must our efforts and efforts to combat climate change be special in reducing climate change in Austria? – This is justified in the climate report, which at the time, a few years ago, very clearly outlined the impact on Austria. These are not just figures, not individual percentages, no reduction targets, but we are talking about the fact that seven of the nine federal states that have an alpine share would be clearly caught by climate warming, with 4 instead of 2 degrees. This would mean that in Tyrol, in Vorarlberg, in Salzburg, in Styria and in Upper Austria, regions must be blocked, that people must be relocated, that property is destroyed. This is not even a question of whether this will be compensated in any form. This would mean that in the east, in the Pannonian lowlands, in the Burgenland and in Vienna, by the heat – through concrete, through the surface – there were significantly more cases of disease and death. So we're talking about potentially significant damage to people in our country, damage to their property and, much worse, damage to their health and body and life. All of this is behind the consideration when we ask: What does climate change mean for Austria? This brought us, among other things, in the European Union, to the fact that we had a very progressive negotiating tactic in Paris and in the Paris climate agreement, where I was fortunately allowed to do so. Austria has played a quite offensive role there. At the time, we signed the climate agreement as one of the first European countries. – That was in 2014! Nothing has happened since 2014. Since 2014, we have not implemented any measures to which we have committed ourselves in Paris. All relevant values we measure: Are the emissions going back? Are emissions decoupled from economic growth? If the emissions are also decoupled a bit far from the climatic conditions, all this has become worse in recent years under the then Minister for the Environment Rupprechter. Now, of course, the question is: How did the Ministry of Sustainability deal with the situation? There is indeed a scientifically proven threat to the population of East and West in the medium term and an international treaty that has committed itself to very concrete reductions, namely, by 2050, to carry out the total out of fossil energy. What does the Ministry of Sustainability do in 2018? It submits a double budget, which does not provide for additional climate action in 2018 or 2019. What does it do instead? – It presents a booklet, #mission 2030, as usual by the new ÖVP well packaged, many fluffy sayings inside and nothing measurable, nothing measurable at all. It is quite concrete that everything that has been discussed in recent years can be found in this issue. It is now starting a process in which everyone outside Parliament can participate. By July you can send an e-mail to the Ministry of Sustainability, which you would like. Ladies and gentlemen, the political groups are not taken into account as the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. What we would have expected if a strategy to combat climate change, the integrated energy and climate strategy, was presented, is a very concrete timetable, as one actually wants to get out of the way in the years to 2050. Why wasn't that done? – Because this government does not want to take responsibility! Whenever it comes to looking for concrete answers, it makes every single member of the government like Sebastian Kurz You understand everything, you explain everything, but you don't give a concrete answer. It is similar with our sustainability strategy. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: It's very good!]] I would like to put three figures on why this is not just a matter of human beings, of environmental policy, of their environment. When we talk about sustainability and generation-righteousness, we are talking about the fact that about half of all the species we have in Austria today will be extinct in 2100 due to climate change. Half of all species we will not be able to pass on to our next generations if we do not take the right measures, ranging from the small animals to the very large, to fauna and flora in general. And there you have to ask yourself what responsibility a government is equipped with, knowing that it has been scientifically proven that this will occur, but for a marketing mutilation two more years after that. So what are the figures that are relevant to the economy? – 4.7 billion euros is spent by the state directly or indirectly every year on climate-damaging measures, subsidies, tax privileges. Each year, the state actually invests 4.7 billion euros in the wrong direction. 9 billion euros is the real value we lose every year in purchasing power because we import energy. However, we do not import this energy from friendly countries, which simply makes the world economy grow, but with these imports we also promote democratically at least as difficult to describe as states. And 8 billion euros – a third sum I would like to mention – will be the annual damage caused by climate change to the population in Austria in 2050. That is to say, we are talking, and that is an essential issue for me, of a real health hazard to the population, of a decline in biodiversity, of a damage to the property of individuals and businesses in our country. We are talking about the fact that the competitive advantage will be a disadvantage if insurance costs become so huge that companies in some regions can hardly be insured. But now I want to make a turnaround and say: Not everything's bad, what's in front of us now. I would like to highlight a little what we can do differently as Austria in the future. I would like to take three issues out of my mind. The first topic is research. We know today – and this is a privilege that was not present in every time – which is technologically due to us over the next 50 to 100 years. If Austria is a pioneer in the field of energy research, in the field of drive technology, in the field of energy storage, in the field of thermal regeneration, in the field of waste management, then this may have small economic advantages and disadvantages for small Austria at the beginning. But it has enormous advantages in the medium and long term, because the states, one after the other, will relocate their economy, their form, their form, their form, their living together, over the next 50 to 100 years. We can be exported in the new green technologies; we are not in wider understanding today. I would also like to address this: What would that mean for our lives? – I would go away from the strategy of saying in the transport sector, everything becomes electromobility. We know today that one third of the emissions from production are generated by cars, one third by operation and one third by scrapping. That means we have to think much wider. We need to consider: How will systems change in the future in the fields of energy, mobility and tax policy? – Later on, our sustainability minister, Sepp Schellhorn, will say even more precisely. We need to learn to create the right framework conditions in politics for visions to become reality again. We also need to manage to allow it in our country, in fact, to think more widely than simply in everyday routines. Let's really march into the future together and not just beat marketing spells! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17558	Mr Lattenbichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17580	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. Feichtinger – where is he? [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: (standing on the edge of the FPÖ seats series) He talks to the environmental speaker...!]] - Ah, very well! I'm glad you're listening. In Tyrolean we say: The envy is a lukewarm! I think you must be very angry that within just three months, this new federal government has sent a very ambitious climate and energy strategy into the discussion process, something that we have achieved with the new coalition partner within a few weeks – which we have not achieved with you for years! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The strategy is on the table. I think it's a very ambitious one, it's a successful strategy. It is a comprehensive draft, and we also have the claim that we do not want to burden people, as in many other areas, but rather pay them off. We want to set clear objectives here not only, but also implement them. We have made a clear commitment to the Paris Treaties in the Preamble. We will stick to this, which is very, very important to this Federal Government. But we want to achieve this not only by bans, but also by commandments. We want to create incentives, we want to take the population with us, and this is not only with bans and with tax increases. On the basis of this urgent question, I have missed something, namely the questions themselves. I would have asked you, Mrs Bißmann, that the next time you made your statement of principle, at least on the subject of the question, you will come up with at least one question or another. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. I don't think you would have needed a lot of research work in the past, if you had looked at the APA archive, because there you would have been 3rd. On 1 December 2009, the Ministry of Economic Affairs signed a voluntary efficiency agreement with the oil industry. So with these conspiracy theories, which you probably want to carry on in the best manner of your former party president, we do not come further here. I should also like to point out the following – as a third point, because you said that these agreements are still in place –: It may have been forgotten from your estimated attention that in 2014 – you were not here yet – we negotiated an energy efficiency law. This entered into force in 2015, and with this - the Minister has already said this several times - the voluntary agreement has become obsolete. So please do more research! But I also understand that in your group, in your party, you want to take every straw in order to get media attention. I've been in here for a few years now, and I've already seen so many parties fall apart, like the BZÖ or the Stronach team. You are now exactly in this process. It is, I think, unfortunate for the entire party landscape, if it has begun before the invasion, before the fishing of this decay process. But I also understand you humanly that now each of you wants to get into the scene and that these straws are always being pulled here, but the thing itself is not useful. Okay, of course, you can ask any question, that is not yours, but only with this press release would the questions 19 to 35 have been answered. Finally, to the SPÖ: There are probably two things that remain to be seen with the politically interested observers and spectators throughout the day. First point: that you have a thief, almost childish joy with a photo that was shot in Vorarlberg and then changed. If this is the only thing that you have achieved today on possible criticism of content, then this joy should be yours. That's all I'm gonna do. The second is the true and illustrious statement made by colleague Duzdar, who meant that this federal government really does not save people, but rather the system. I find it very refreshing that Mrs. Duzdar seems to have become smarter during the speech. I also invite or request the colleague Duzdar to speak with other SPÖ colleagues so that at the end of the day, on Thursday, she can still agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17646	The next item is Mrs Petra Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17668	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Sustainable Development Goals, the sustainable development goals of the United Nations, are something like a roadmap for this world by 2030, with the aim that all currently 7.5 billion people, 2030, can live truly healthy and in dignity. Austria has also taken part in these sustainable development goals in 2015 and its objectives are also addressed to Austria itself. These are not targets for the global south, they are targets for us. I would therefore like to quote the objective of 12.c, which says: ‘The inefficient subsidisation of fossil fuels, which leads to wasteful consumption, rationalise by removing market distortions in accordance with national circumstances, inter alia by restructuring taxation and the gradual abolition of these harmful subsidies in order to take account of their environmental impacts’. The design of the integrated climate and energy strategy does not necessarily meet this very ambitious, holistic and coherent objective. That's very bad. In this context, I would also like to point out that, when we discuss climate, of course, we also need to see clearly that it is a global challenge that we can not only do climate policy here in Austria. We also need to do it here, which is a very important contribution, and as a rich country we are also a model for many poorer countries to show that you can do something very well. If I look at a paper that has probably been illegitimately leaked by a ministry, where it concerns the draft three-year programme of Austrian development cooperation, then there is a chapter on environmental protection, in which things are not stupid at all, and which I can indeed sign in large parts. On page 12 of this paper, there is also a paragraph to combat climate change and its impact, and I personally feel the term climate change as totally engrossing and inspiring. I think we should rather talk about climate change or climate change, which is much more justifiable to what is happening. At any rate, this paper says that if greenhouse gases continue to rise, a lengthy change in the climate system will lead to irreversible consequences. And it is all the more difficult to deal with it and react to it, the longer it is hesitated to do something at last. That's perfectly right. It is therefore proposed that climate protection measures should occur in all programmes, in all projects of Austrian development cooperation, and that there should be measures to reduce both emissions and adapt to the changed circumstances. That's right and important. It is also a matter of ensuring that climates are very often forced by migration, that, in particular, poor people living in coastal regions, whether in rural regions or in agglomerations, are particularly affected by climate change, and we also bear responsibility there. That's good and right, just the problem is: There is hardly any money, even in the field of foreign policy, in order to meet these challenges and the demands we ourselves have made. The same applies to the Green Climate Fund and the funding that Austria should contribute to contributing to part of the Paris climate agreement, where in fact all ministries – and I stress – are invited to become active and to pay in this Green Climate Fund. Unfortunately, there is very little moving. You know, when I come to an end, I have to realize that the climate policy of the black and blue government – whether it's in the home or abroad – is a pretty sad game. They have occurred, this black and blue government has taken place and has announced to us lighthouses, and the only thing that remains are shiny gravelights. With these shiny gravelights, we won't save the climate. This is rather sad and alarming, because it is about our future, and it is about the future of many more generations who should live humanely and decently.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17716	Mr Axel Kassinger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17737	Mr President. High house! Mrs Bayr, it is not our claim to save the world alone or to save the climate, but in the context - – well, we can't do that either. [[Abg. Bayr: We are very far away...!]] But what we are creating is, for the Republic of Austria, embedded in the European legal framework and in the European obligations to make a climate and energy policy that is future-oriented and good. We'll do that. It is quite legitimate to ask urgent questions and then deal with them in plenary session, which nobody wants to dispute, but we must now leave the church in the village with regard to the climate and energy strategy. They represent it just as if we were Austrian or Austrian government miles away from fulfilling their obligations. It's not like that! On the contrary, we are in many, many areas very, very good on the go, very, very well positioned. We are in some areas – well, of course the topography to a certain extent comes to our aid – even model students, for example in the area of the share of renewables in total energy consumption. We are already far above the objectives set by the European Union for 2030. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can now of course have everything sick, but you can also leave the church in the village, as I said. What are the facts? – An integrated climate and energy strategy is in place, and I would like to point out that this is a unique event in this Republic. This Federal Government has managed to present for the first time such a document, such a strategy at all. This is certainly worth a positive mention. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The fact that one cannot break down a strategy now can look for the smallest operational measures, not, so to speak, the number behind the comma and find it, is due to the nature of a strategy. This is a strategy that sets out very clear objectives. When you read the strategy, you will find clear objectives, clear priorities of this federal government under the chapter "What matters to us" and clear instructions for action on implementation. In the sixth chapter of this integrated climate and energy strategy, the Federal Government also highlights the “lighthouse projects”. Now, of course, you can do this again and say: That's just little light, et cetera. I am glad that we are making about an e-mobility offensive; I am glad that we are continuing thermal building renovation; I am glad that there is the 100 000 roof project of photovoltaics; I am glad that we are even more devoted to renewable hydrogen and biomethane; I am glad that we are dedicated to the area of Green Finance, et cetera. You can do this – of course we don't, but I judge it this way: These are real, important lighthouse projects. Finally, from a liberal point of view: We believe that climate and energy policy should not be considered in isolation, but in an overall, whole, systemic context as far as there is something like a goal from our point of view, namely, of course, a future-oriented climate and energy policy in the sense of sustainability. But we must not forget the security of energy supply for our country, and we must also remember the creation of framework conditions that allow our economy and industry to be competitive: Who do we want to compare with? – With European co-competitors, especially when it comes to site policy: We look relatively old in many areas of energy policy vis-à-vis Bavaria and France. You need to know, that's a site disadvantage. So this point must at least be taken into account. It's also important to keep track of this. It does not benefit the most beautiful plant, if it is simply not controllable, and it does not make it possible for households that are not millionaires, and not for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this respect, we are also as far as the whole eco-electric regime is concerned – and you know that if you have followed this in the context of the free energy policy in recent years – not those who say: Money doesn't matter, because in the end, someone has to pay for it, in this case the so-called end-users. Here too: a reasonable continuation of the Ecostrom Act with the last novelle. We will be completely new in this period of government. This is also part of the government agreement, namely the Energy Act New with modern access, also more reward for net-compliant behaviour, for example – that is also a huge problem – more market-oriented access. This will be decided and implemented, among other things, in the Energy Act, which is still on the agenda for this Federal Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17788	Mr Sustainability Member Schellhorn has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17809	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Let me mention just one thing at the beginning: I think it is very worrying for democracy policy if you reject an instrument of the National Council, that which the list has used today, so to speak, as a conspiracy theory. It's a pain that you don't have. This torment is also embarrassing: Is that this new government you've been talking about, or is that something else? But it is so – and I now take the party for the list – that this is simply embarrassing for you if you accuse them of conspiracy theories. I don't think that's good. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] This strategy – a total of 63 pages, but with only 59 pages of content; if I also subtract the prefaces, then it is 51 – is sufficient at most for a marketing competition at the “Spatzenpost”, but for nothing else. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS.]] So, as an entrepreneur, if I present such a strategy, maybe with a few declarations of intent and aims and wishes, but I cannot define objectives, define clear objectives and, above all, no tools: How do I do it?, don't seriously mean. So you can't seriously believe that all this can be when it comes to one of the most important issues of social policy for the future, for the next generation. It's about climate change. – Well, in the FPÖ there are some who still do not believe that there are these; but they also believe in aluminum huts and other things. But you are talking about sustainability, Mrs. Minister, this is about the next generation. And this cannot be the instrument for achieving goals when it comes to an energy strategy. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] As we wish to do so, this has surprisingly also been mentioned by President Macron in the European Parliament today. It speaks of a Europe-wide CO2 tax, a steering system, a pollutant principle in so far as we are taxing more of those who emit more. But we also take into account exactly the industry that it does not have the disadvantages. But our concept, which we have already brought in and addressed in the National Council election campaign, is something that is sustainable. You would only have one thing to one in your pa- Then society would have something to do with it, then we knew of clear goals, then we knew of clear tools, of how to implement this strategy. And that would have been sustainable. How is it now? – I’ll let you Of course, you won't return without numbers. Let us take a look at Sweden in the last 20 years has had a growth of 68 percent – Austria one of 58 percent. [[The speaker shows a graphic entitled “Real Growth and Emission, Compare Austria and Sweden”]] The emissions in Sweden fell by 25 percent, and those in Austria rose by 6 percent. Why is that so? – Because Sweden had a clear concept because Sweden said clearly: We want to go to Green Energy. They're talking about green gas. Green gas is biogas promotion for farmers and nothing else. That's not your topic now. Your topic must be to be innovative here, to put a lot into research so that we can offer alternative energy systems, and then we will also create jobs. With this money, a steering measure by CO2 taxes, non-conceivable, you would win a lot. But I don't see anything about it. There I see only: should, want, have, and nothing else, maybe also that you should do some education at school towards saving energy, but nothing else. But even there it says that you want to do so, there are no clear concepts in this respect either. 59 pages of empty paper, empty paper, I find this sad when it comes to one of the most important instruments and the most important systems we need to redirect. [[showing a copy of the climate and energy strategy]] We need to look – and each of us can make a contribution – how we behave better for the next generation. Each of us can make a contribution to this. Also You could make a contribution if you thought not only of your interests but of the next generation. That's your job in politics, that's what this is about! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is it like now? – If Mr Vice-Chancellor may have a bigger car, he thinks: Yes, I have to pay a little more NoVA at the beginning! But what if he had to think: If I now have a bigger car that consumes more petrol, then I have to pay for higher CO2 taxation!Unknown term type: "%s".? Then he can have a bigger car from me, but then he has to pay more for it. Only in this way can we steer, only in this way can we come from our great emissions away and to a conscious approach to nature. As long as we don't have that, Mrs. Minister, your empty strategy paper won't be useful either. [[showing the copy of the climate and energy strategy]] This is at most suitable for the advertising price of the “Spatzenpost” and for nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17910	Mr Ottenschlager is speaking on behalf of the European Democratic Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17931	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Briefly replicating the campaigning Sepp Schellhorn first, because you meant that no targets were defined: [[Abg. Schellhorn: I always fight!]] That's where I'll put page 6. There it says: Austria confesses itself to the climate goals, and so on and so on. And: ‘Austria will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 36% by 2030 compared with 2005.’ A few lines further, it says: ‘The Federal Government has therefore set itself the goal of producing electricity by 2030 to the extent that national total electricity consumption is 100% [...] covered by renewable energy sources.’ And so on and so on. So the criticism is, I think, not to share. We still have a number of copies of the climate and energy strategy here, and I invite you, all of you, to take a copy and really read it through. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next point, because, Mr Schellhorn, you meant earlier, the bigger the car, the more you have to pay: That's what it's like now. It is indeed true that the mineral oil tax of the one who consumes more must also, of course, pay more. The fact that we can think about further ecologizing is beyond dispute, but one cannot now pretend that this is not the case now, that those who consume more will also pay more. Next – I think this is very important in this discussion –: We need to get together on this issue. It should not be a conflict, such as citizens against industry, economics against anyone else, but a co-operation. In today's daily newspaper you can read: [[showing a newspaper section from the “Kurier”]] ‘Great bags at the mobility turnaround’. And by chance on the next page is also: ‘hydrogen instead of coal: Voest tests in Linz ‘CO2-free production’. What do I want to prove? – Yes, there is a broad discussion in all areas – in industry, in the economy, also with us – on issues of mobility. And because the question is often asked: What are concrete measures? . We have been in concrete implementations for years, especially in terms of mobility, transport. This is not only the Federal Government, but also the previous governments for many years. Why? – Because we invest billions in the expansion of public transport, because we invest billions in rail infrastructure. This federal government and we continue to confess it. Therefore, record amounts will continue to be invested in railway expansion – over 2 billion euros a year. In addition, we, the Federal Government, countries and municipalities, invest 1 billion euros in rail transport over the so-called public services. This is very, very much money that flows into climate protection in this area. I think this path is correct and belongs to continued support. In addition – and this, I believe, is also very important – it is also about looking at the different drive technologies. It is here the electromobility formulated, but it is also about a technology openness to hydrogen, for example, but also other modern, efficient drive technologies. The further development – which is also very well described in this article – of the combustion engines is progressing through this competition. As a policy, we have the task of formulating the objectives, providing a good framework for innovation, research, new technologies, and at the end of the day, the experts, engineers and the market will decide what will be adopted. I am convinced that this will also make an important contribution to achieving climate change objectives. I repeat: That's a strategy. [[showing a copy of the climate and energy strategy]] It's a really good design. I'll invite you again: Take part in the discussion! There is indeed a call for genuinely active participation by the Federal Minister, too, so that in June we have a programme with which we can go into the future and really achieve these objectives together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e17991	Mr Stöger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18012	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Yes, climate protection is also noted: He has become a victim of cuts! Let's take a look at this! We have the budget debate today, and it always comes out: Environmental protection must not cost! – But that’s going to be more expensive in the end. It is not sustainable and it is not forward-looking either. I can only confirm it – I have noticed it for 130 days: It's always about announcement policy. It's always about marketing bubbles, about words and never about anything concrete. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Why do you go to court with the core like that?]] However, I believe that it is precisely in the debate with the climate that it is about to be concrete. A statement like this: GHGs up to 2030, is nice as an over-, over-target, but what does that mean in April 2018? What does that mean in April 2019? And how is this reflected in the Austrian budget? I am in favour of supporting everything that makes industrial processes CO2 free. I'm also in favour of thinking about the types of traffic. I think that this general objective is correct, but that needs concrete action – I do not see timetables. It needs funding and it also needs partners that allow for action distractions. How's the spatial order? One thing is particularly crucial in transport policy: the spatial planning. Is that what the Federation is doing now? How are the countries doing? I would have liked to hear the answers. Transport policy: In order to achieve these objectives, there is a need to do something in transport policy. I like it very much, too, Mr Ottenschlager said that if you say that we need to strengthen public transport, rail, that is the right step, but the relocation of ÖBB infrastructure projects is a wrong way – does not help climate. The delay of route nelectrification is a wrong path – does not help the climate, but that is concrete. The departure from the car end-tube exhaust gas measurement is a wrong way – does not help the climate. To discuss speed 140 on the motorway – excuse me, is nice, but a distraction debate. This certainly does not help the climate. Reflecting on the withdrawal of truck speed limits is also a wrong way. What we need is an honest, sustainable plan, a genuine Austrian climate and energy strategy. The whole government should sit down and think about it again. Now I would like to say something that has already been mentioned by Mr Kassinger and by Mr Lettenbichler. We discussed in a previous federal government how to make such a strategy. There have been four objectives: Sustainability, sustainability and competitiveness. And, behold, a goal has been lost, namely, legibility for the people. Many people suffer from energy poverty. Energy poverty is always the poorest people who cannot afford energy. That means, those who suffer from energy poverty pay the higher prices first, have the worse energy and freeze third in winter. They don't get away, they have no way to live their freedom. There you should sit down and think again. Leistibility must also be a topic.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18049	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18070	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you heard the “Morgenjournal” in the early morning, you heard the mayor of Fernitz – that is a community south of Graz – he described how the strong nightly rainfall – Mrs. Bißmann also mentioned this – had devastated the area there. The ground can't take anything, the water shoots into the valley. We are increasingly experiencing such extreme weather conditions and this shows how important climate protection measures are, how urgent they are. What we need is a comprehensive concept of space and mobility. What is far too short in the discussions and also in the strategies that are being developed is the use of space. The UN declared 2015 as the International Year of Soils in order to draw attention to the size of the consumption of usable land. Austria is far ahead. 2.4 percent of the land in Austria has already been built through roads, roads, railway lines and also parking spaces. Every day more than 40 hectares are sealed or more than 20 hectares are sealed for settlements, shopping centres, roads and traffic routes. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] This means that the farmland is getting less and less the recreation room available. That is why we need reasonable spatial planning, because space creates traffic. If you drive through the country in Austria, you will see how dislocated everything is that there are houses on the green meadow that have to be created structures that need traffic routes that people need to commut to work. There's something you need to do. [[Abg. Prince: But you can't...!]] It is necessary to consider concrete measures. There is always talk about the objectives. Of course, there is a need to define objectives, but the objectives are only as valuable as measures are defined as possible. In particular, there are two groups of measures: One thing is to think about how to change people's behavior. There are two ways to either reward them, or they have disadvantages if they don't behave the way you want. The second is that there is a need for intensive cooperation between federal, regional and local authorities. Policy must take responsibility for these measures. So I was very surprised, Mrs. Federal Minister, when one or two weeks ago, in an interview with the newspaper “The Press”, you answered the question of how the third runway in Schwechat was in response to the climate strategy: The third runway in Schwechat? That was a court decision, that was not a political decision. Of course, this is a political decision whether a third runway is being built in Schwechat. The court had to decide because the notice had been challenged. That is, politics must stand up for what it does and what it fails to do. Finally, I would like to say: These much-known lighthouse projects will be They only bring them to light when enough electricity is available, speak money, and that is currently missing in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18119	Mrs Kugler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18140	Mr President. Dear Mrs Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now heard so many negative things about environmental policy and the climate and energy strategy. I can't understand. I would like to bring three good news to the spectators in front of the television sets. The first is: For the first time – and this is the case for the Republic for the first time – we have an integrated climate and energy strategy. There has never been anything like this – and we already have it after the first 100 days. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The second good news is as follows: The budget for climate and environmental policy has not been reduced. Other areas had to accept cuts. This has not been done in this area, which shows how important climate and energy policy is for Austria and for this government. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A third good news – this is especially interesting for the audiences here on the visitor gallery, but also for all in front of the televisions –: The strategy is now open to review, and anyone who may want to get involved can do so now. Mr Fichtinger, you have presented this differently, but the strategy is again formulated by this review. Now the principles are laid down as to how we are doing. These are further jointly formulated in this process. I would like to invite all of you to take this opportunity. Mr Schellhorn, this is not a marketing gag, but it is about real climate and energy policy, which Austria and the whole of Europe are supposed to bring forward. The objectives, ladies and gentlemen, are clear: We want to comply with the UN's climate change targets and sustainability objectives. We want to do this in a sustainable way, and we want to do it innovatively. Then I don't understand the excitement of the list of mushrooms. This excitement seems artificial to me. First of all, one speaks of secret agreements and also presupposes party financing by the mineral oil industry. Then colleagues complained that the woman minister called this a conspiracy theory; I think the word is well chosen. It has also been made clear why there is nothing to do with the fact that the official agreements have ended that they were not secret, but also publicly accessible on the website and through press releases. All that was said. I don't think it's good to get clean environmental policy into the dirt. Why do everything get bad just because it comes from the government? – I personally find that illogical and not productive. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second accusation made by Mrs Bißmann was that the climate and energy strategy would not be ambitious. I do not think we can say that about the objectives. You might be able to discuss the way there. You'd go another way. But we stand and the strategy stands for planning rather than incalculability. This is particularly important for the local authorities, for the economy and for society. The climate and energy strategy must be realistic and not alien. We want to make incentives instead of prohibiting them. We want to relieve and not tax. We want to get involved and not to get ahead. We want the energy turnaround. Do not finance on the back of the next generation, so we want to create the energy transition without new taxes. The destruction of the environment, ladies and gentlemen, does not stop at national borders. The strongest effects of environmental destruction are the poorest in the poorer countries of the world. That is why I would like to thank you today, Mrs Köstinger, very much for taking this international aspect into account in your environmental policy. The Minister was the one who complained to Hungary because aid came from Hungary for the Paks II nuclear power plant. Our minister will also ensure, within the framework of the EU Presidency, that the end of the fossil age has come not only for Austria but for the whole European Union. Perhaps one last point – Mrs Griss mentioned this too – is: It is also a change of behaviour. Environmental problems often have ethical roots. It is about changing the behavior of the individual. That is why I allow myself to end here with the quote of an Orthodox patriarch who said at an environmental conference: In order for environmental protection not to remain superficial, it takes – and then he calls three points – a change from consumption to modesty, from greed to generosity and from waste to sharing. - Quote. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18226	Next item is the report by Mr Andreas Kollross. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18250	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! The government colleagues seem to have let you down. [[pointing out the empty places on the government bank]] Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners on the gallery and in front of the TV screens, if you haven't turned off yet! Mr. Lettenbichler, I still have to make a comment on you – I do not know now whether Mr Lettenbichler is in the hall, but I am still making it – because you have made fun of the photo assembly. I find it anything but funny that in the context of a Federal Chancellor or perhaps even on behalf of a Federal Chancellor – you don't know – under the motto: What does not fit is made appropriate, photos are manipulated. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hafenecker and Mr Höbart.]] I find it anything but funny and I think it's anything but okay that you're just driving over there. If someone is already manipulating photos for this reason, just because the background doesn't fit him, then I don't want to think about what he's willing to do otherwise if one or another doesn't fit him, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Mrs. Minister! I also have the impression that, with Mr Kurz, which has been said by other speakers today, you are holding a competition like this: Who can talk the longest and say least? [[Call the ÖVP: The SPÖ!]] Right now, as far as speech bubbles, word aids and announcements are concerned, this is probably due to the fact that the chancellor was more committed to silence. They often describe this wonderfully with words such as ambitious, engaged, lighthouses, milestones and so on and so on, but when it comes to the concrete, then either it is first evaluated or it is being worked out or anything else, because when it comes to the concrete, nothing really takes place. I would just like to tell you that climate change, Mrs Minister, is not a good thing to talk about, it cannot be smiled away, it takes place simply and simply. It also needs measures from the Republic of Austria, it also needs measures from the Minister for the Environment, so that the Austrian side is really against climate change. I can only refer to the Council of Ministers' decision on the Climate and Energy Strategy of 5 May. January – you will know him – let me quote: ‘To achieve these objectives and to meet EU climate and energy targets for 2020, a set of measures should be set out accordingly in the proposed ‘double budget’ [...].’ I have to tell you openly if you look at the budget – we already have budget debate all the time today – you see, this worst thing you just didn't pass. There is nothing in the double budget for the environment. In fact, it is massively shortened – and that is done by you. In the case of thermal renovation – you will already know – it is minus 1 million euros, environmental promotion in the country is reduced from 56.7 million to 44.6 million euros. I would just like to say that the Federal Chancellor's grain money in the budget is now higher than domestic environmental support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] You might want to note that. And so, in reality, this is going through like a red thread. I don't want to exceed my speaking time, I just want to tell you I'm an enthusiastic novel reader. Last year, for example, Ingo Schulze is a very interesting book entitled “Peter Holtz. His happy life tells of himself“ came out. That describes more or less a bit as he imagines himself the world, but the reality unfortunately always looks quite different than how he describes his life and how he imagines the world. As I said, Minister Löger is unfortunately not here, but, Mrs Minister, if, for example, I see that you have to ask, among other things, the Minister of Finance, for example, that climate and energy-specific measures, which are of budgetary or fiscal relevance, must be presented in agreement with the Federal Ministry of Finance, then I think that this is an evidence of poverty for an environmental minister, that she first has to go to the Minister of Finance and ask what she should do and what she does not do. I would expect something else from an Environment Minister. That's why I say something I think it's worth thinking about and discussing: I think it would make sense for us to share your ministry again. And if you stay a Minister of Agriculture, you'll be happy to sell pigshaxes to China, but I think you'd be doing a good job for the Austrian environment if you left the environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18323	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. She's not in the meeting room at the moment. No one has made any mention of this. The debate on the urgent question is closed. [[Abg. Prince: (in the direction of the Abg. Bißmann) Your time has expired!]] [[17:08:27]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18360	I will now resume the negotiations on Division 32 again. Mr Josef Schellhorn came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18387	Madam President. Mrs. Minister, represented by Mr. Minister Blümel! Before we started the special instrument at 3 p.m., Mr Großbauer spoke and said that her door was always open to cultural policy. – But where am I going? In an empty room or room with very simple furniture? One thing I have to say: This cultural budget is de facto meaningless – and you know that. It's nothing. It simply lacks ideas, priorities, statements, content and substance. The only own attribute that this art and cultural budget has is a clear focus on the monument and on the Unesco cultural heritage. Of course, that also says a lot, because de facto cultural policy in this country is now making FPÖ. You've given up from the ÖVP, that's over, nothing comes from you. Mr Rosenkranz creates as far as the monument and the UNESCO cultural heritage are concerned. That's all there is to have. We also see who in this country now gives the tone of cultural policy: not the ÖVP, but the FPÖ, and that is worrying. In another area, media policy, Mr Blümel has long given up. At the ORF, the FPÖ is showing that you have the grey. I really have to say that. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] - Yes, just speak! The fact that you're just reporting on this is a little ungusty, I would like to say. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that the FPÖ wants to cancel independent journalists depending on Gusto, while you let the public believe, or Mr. Blümel lets the public believe that a two-day survey for the ORF has been arranged again, and one caresses the people a little. - No, it's not! [[New call of the abg. Steger.]] Her head of the party Vice-chanc Strache is always happy to speak of the freedom of art, at the same time post an Austrofascism anthem and then represent the ORF as the place of distribution of lies – so it cannot be in this country! It will not be that way, and the opposition must also be concerned about it. That's not how a cultural budget looks! [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Noll.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steger.]] They could be involved in a classic case that ÖVP has long discussed with SPÖ, namely the House of History. Now the site is being questioned again, nothing comes out again, and it is pushed to the long bank because you do not have the courage to find clear words in this regard. I am referring specifically to you from the FPÖ, because the ÖVP does not mean cultural policy. That's what she gave up, that's over, that's what we can do. You are now responsible, Mr Rosenkranz, for speaking to the House of History in accordance with clear words. One could have made a clear budgetary policy in terms of cultural policy. This would have been the case in collective activity, also with support and the challenges we now face in active cultural policy, with regard to migration, with regard to tax issues, but also with the support of the cultural sector in tax matters. How can culture benefit from tax policy? Where can private investors intervene? That would have been responsible policy. This has no longer been allowed to happen, rather the ÖVP leaves the media policy of the FPÖ, and it tries to destroy the ORF. [[Abg. Steger: Objectivity!]] That's what you're up to, and that's worrying!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18461	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Walter Rosenkranz has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18492	Madam President. Estimated member of the Federal Government! I believe that Mr Schellhorn has now been a little efforted by the election campaign, and it has often been very difficult to follow him in the distinction between media policy and cultural policy. [[Mr Loacker, Mr Scherak and Mr Strolz.]] We have now been to cultural policy, but he has finally said that the ORF is now the problem again. We are now in the field of cultural policy! I would like to thank the berry for the position he has now assigned to me. I can only say I'm clearly overestimated by you, but it still honors me. Thank you, you can stay in this faith, maybe then sleep less well, and that would be a good signal. Cultural policy: Mr Drozda has said the amounts – yes, I see you, we do not need the exclamation at all! – the cultural budget has increased, there is more money. [[Abg. Drozda: Here!]] What we did at the beginning, when it was clear that a black/Turkish-blue coalition will come, belongs to the uncognition of the cultural creators: For God's sake, now the cultural nation will collapse! There will be no more money for the artists! There's still getting out of here now! The most terrible of all will happen! – And what is there now at once? – More money for art and culture in this double budget. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, Mr Drozda said that if you count inflation and everything in there, then it will be less in the end. Fact: There is more money for art and culture, because this government is simply at the heart of Austria's cultural nation. This may, however, be different in nuances than you have always imagined. So far, I've always had the impression that it's enough if someone said: I am an artist and a friend of Mr. Drozda or Mr. Zinggl!; and then it was. [[Abg. Drozda: That's under your..., colleague!]] We don't want to interfere when it comes to what an artist has to do, think and do. The freedom of art has to be left out of party politics. Every artist will be able to develop freely in Austria, which is guaranteed. [[Abg. Drozda: You beat yourself under your worth!]] - Don't worry! One thing I particularly like about contemporary art: Since – no matter what area – there are no bad works of art at all. There used to be great artists who said: It wasn't a big throw of me now, this manuscript, this picture, I'm destroying this composition! – Today, every work is great, no matter if it is a major artist or a small artist. I appreciate that in contemporary art. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Noll.]] What are the priorities of the budget? – All in all, federal policy can only be active in four areas. Federal Museums: There are a large number of collections and museums. Of course, it is not at all prohibited for the federal museums to think about things, for example about better cooperation, so that they can also save money in the administration. Mr Drozda, you have already thought in this direction. [[Abg. Drozda: You're right!]] Maybe something's even in a drawer, but I think your desk with this drawer has been cleared out, which may be a problem. But we're going to get together, no question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] It has already been mentioned by Mr Schellhorn that there may be a bit of a bit of intensification on the line of the collective activities of the individual houses. These institutions have received autonomy, but now they have to make steering effects again, there is a certain field of tension, but this must be solved accordingly in the context of cultural policy. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Drozda]] Bundestheater-Holding: We have now processed the Burgtheater scandal quite and badly. There are certainly also possibilities for improvement in the construction. Funding: The transparency database is very important. We need to know where there are multiple promotions. The last point: the Bundesdenkmalamt. This is the largest construction site in the Federal Cultural Policy area. This is actually a classic example of SPÖ-Misswirtschaft, what happened in this shop, what you realize when you think of Demis and Dobis, these computer systems. Mr Schellhorn mentioned how to involve private individuals, for example tax benefits for sponsoring. Yes, for that there are very interesting things, for example, for how to support private owners of listed objects, because these are those who also have a rich treasure of Austria. A historic ensemble with listed houses, to which tourists come to look at it, is not only something that is in public hands, but in most cases in private hands. The private owners then have to think: What am I doing? I have to build this house very much, but if, for example, I want to rent, I have to keep the rent rate limit, as the SPÖ intends! - That won't match. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Conversely, one can say that there might be tax incentives for these owners to be listed buildings. Mr Blümel has also always said that the monument office should be service-oriented. It is about sharpening the consciousness for listed objects, for the value that exists, and the thought of how you can have a positive effect on the fact that these objects can also be used. In the past, there have been some areas of tension there and there in some individual cases, which may even have required a company, a wine-growing company, a meat ranchery, to relocate and search for a different location or even to settle down. There may need to be more advice, with more sensitivity – but that is all to be done. One thing I can say in view of this double budget: The cultural nation of Austria will not go down, all unconcealed calls in spite of it. [[Abg. Drozda: No one claimed that!]] The following is also clear – and this government has agreed on it –: We have our treasures, and we want to pass them on to future generations. We know very well that this cultural heritage is also an economic factor for the whole Republic and the people here. But we want to raise these treasures with thought and logically only do what is also in federal competence. Finally, the following is to be said – because in the debate, for example in the previous speech concerning the ORF, the independent journalists and so on, there are also repeated intertwines: The freedom of art is in no way questioned! Perhaps the freedom of tax money on the other hand is a little limited, but that is another thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18620	Next speaker: Mr Dr Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18641	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Rosenkranz, it is now quite exactly 20 years ago, at the time as a federal curator for all the parliamentary clubs, I offered a kind of course in the field of contemporary art, criteria of assessment and so on. The Freedom Party invited me back then, and I spoke there. Then, for about ten or 15 years, there was half a peace of mind on this subject. Now the polemization against contemporary art is going on again. Maybe you need a booster vaccination. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rosary: I wasn't there for the first time! I'm not here for that long! With you, time and space are floating, but that's a question of age!]] – Then we do this for the disciples who have only more sensitivity to the old. Now I come to the budget for art and culture: There are three criteria by which you can always judge that. First question: Has the budget been increased or at least adjusted to inflation? – You said it was increased – yes, by 3 euros, but essentially it is constant. This means that it is almost cynical to celebrate this as a success, in view of the fixed costs we all have in the cultural business and then leave them less for the personalities, i.e. for the creatives, than before. This is not really a success. But you're right: There have been fears that it will get worse. Let's see how it's going to be. If it stays like that, you can only say: We're with one – can I say that now? – blue eye got away! [[Abg. Rosary: That's what the saying is!]] The second question is: How large is the cultural budget in relation to the total budget? This is already an important question, because it is independent of the absolute amount and the relation shows the importance of a federal government's art and culture. I can only say: The percentage has fallen further! Minister Köstinger, I thank you for sitting here, but you will understand that I am a little dissatisfied that the Minister responsible referred to the chancellor who has now referred to you. I trust to bet, you will say nothing to this subject area, or at least nothing relevant. This is also a kind of disregard for this scene, whose promotion would also be part of the government's tasks. The third criterion concerns the allocation of the cultural budget: Who gets what, who gets more than before, who gets less? This is a kind of defence policy and, in small terms, reflects exactly what is happening in large politics, that is, that is, a small mirror of overall policy. As in general policy, we also see – in health care, in school policy, in support of families – that the smaller ones, the weaker in favour of the bigger ones and those who are already well-reported suffer. For example, the Salzburg Festival gets 5% more than the inflation rate. For example, the really well-doped Federal Museums are inflation-proofed. So the sheer is getting further apart, and on the other hand, it produces something like an uncertainty, more and more precariates – and that can't be it. While on the one hand a director does not only earn the salary higher than that of the Federal Chancellor – I know that includes premiums, special allowances, anniversary allowances, pensions, meeting fees and all Pipapo – we still have no collective agreements for the Federal Museums – for 17 years not yet. If one of the works councillors then shows and publishes, she is threatened by a complaint by the director. The lawyer of the director is, of course, paid by us, by the federal government, while the poor works councillor had to pay the lawyer himself. That's how it's going! - Well, that's what the G.O.D. has as a union. [[Abg. Rosary: Does it not have a trade union legal protection?]] I think I said something in my last section, but no matter. We have the situation that this director then says in the Boulevard press, as it is obviously about a class struggle. Now I'm telling you what the class struggle is: The class struggle on it is that in reality it is distributed from bottom to top. So this is something we see in culture as much as in all the other budgets: The smaller ones are being shredded, get less and less, have to look where they stay – precariates and so on – of course, fear for their future, the bigger ones who are already well situated are getting more and more. I do not think that this is a policy I can represent – perhaps you can do that, Mr Rosenkranz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18724	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18748	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I had the honour of also working on the “Art and Culture” chapter of the Federal Government’s programme. In particular, we have come to know three very important things: the excellent achievements of the art and culture scene in Austria, the public promotion of and responsibility to art and culture and, of course, the full freedom of art, in particular contemporary art – in the sense also of the election of the Vienna Secession: “Time’s art – art’s freedom”. I too have been referred to very often – almost hammerishly – that it is likely that this government will make great savings in the field of art and culture. However, one thing can already be said today – and this is also true of recognition –: I am really proud that this government, that this minister has enforced it, that there has been no savings, although in most other departments savings have been made. All the previous speakers of the opposition have also confirmed this and now, as it were, have to find some arguments for why this may not be so great. I think it's great, it's a gratifying development. It is important to give the government and the Federal Minister genuine respect and recognition for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think that the work of the cultural team – and there is not only the minister, but there is also the cultural speaker, there is my ability and there are others who work in the Cultural Committee – has moved a lot. The first thing that's all right. It is important that we have addressed all the open problems and issues very factually and not party-politically at all. There is a quiet and fair balance of problems. There are many initiatives launched by the predecessor, Mr Drozda, which are being taken up and continued. Not all that has been started by you, Mr Drozda, is partout bad – on the contrary! The Minister has always said it this way: In the best sense, we do not want to make politics in the art and culture scene, but for this. I believe that recognition must also be given to such an objective policy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The 2018 commemorative year also includes an important part of the government programme. In any case, the Federal Government has made a very clear commitment to all forms of anti-Semitism in its government programme and has clearly acknowledged Austria's share and responsibility for the crimes of the time of National Socialism. I've researched this extra thing: In this form and clarity, it has not yet been in any programme of an Austrian federal government. This too must be recognized once! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] There have already been some remarkable commemorative events in recent weeks and months, especially those organized by the President of the National Council Sobotka in January or those in March. I think the speeches of the Federal President, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and also of the cultural artist André Heller in the Hofburg will surely be remembered. One is another important concern to me, namely the project of the memorial wall with the names of the murdered in the time of National Socialism. I think this is an important step, I believe that it is a personal concern for many people, including me, with the following consideration: The names of the victims of the Shoa are to be mentioned here, for every person has a name; this is an important key word of memory. And we should not forget: For many victims today, there is not even a tombstone that can be thought of, and that is a very important point in the Jewish tradition. I know from many descendants of people who have been murdered here that they come to Vienna and actually have no place at all to observe the memory of their ancestors here at all. In this sense, it is also a reminder for these people, but also for the future generations, to ensure that something like this never happens again. I think it is a very important signal of this federal government, and this is also due to this federal government's respectable recognition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to conclude that I am convinced that in the first weeks – it is only a few months – we have already put a lot into motion in this area. I am also proud that this has succeeded, and I am also very optimistic that we will advance many other great projects in the field of art and culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18820	Next speaker: Mrs Sabine Schatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18845	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! They boast in your government program that you want to strengthen art and culture in rural areas. I think this is important and correct because regional cultural work is of great importance. Cultural work is work on society, it is united, holds together, creates identity and is part of what we need for a good, vital and sustainable life in the communities. But please don't understand art and culture exclusively as a place-beautiful or entertaining event program! Good cultural policy does not hope for cheap applause, but rather for constructive and good criticism. And that is why it is also important that we strengthen critical cultural initiatives in the regions and do not break down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister Blümel said on the question of financing the free scene in the Committee that the level of this funding should remain the same. I think this is right and important and hope that there will be no cuts here. However, one has to say that there is also a constant budget at a high cost of living, increasing rents and material costs that can become a de facto reduction for many artists, artists and cultural initiatives. As the Upper Austrian, I naturally look at the cultural budget twice as critical. Many cultural initiatives, cultural creators in Upper Austria fear that the Kahlschlag policy launched by the Upper Austrian government in the Kulturbudget could now be taken as a model by the federal government. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we must definitely defend ourselves, because this could be a threat to existence or death for many cultural initiatives and artists. Ladies and gentlemen! Just as the visit of cultural events must not be a question of money, it must not be cultural work and cultural production. It is our task as politicians to ensure that artists are insured, financially insured, socially secure, and I therefore appeal to you all: Make sufficient funding available for the free scene and for the cultural initiatives in the regions! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18890	Next speaker: Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18914	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One can now of course argue about details or every single euro, but basically, I believe, we agree that it is a stable cultural budget that we have here for the next two years, and that the work that has been set up in recent years can really be continued. What I very much welcome is the announcement made by Mr Blümel, who has already made it public and has also set out in the Committee, namely to preserve and develop the really concentrated art and cultural work in our federal capital, but also in the state capitals, which is a very important basis, and also not to ignore the comprehensive offer. The Minister will take an essential step here, acting in agreement between the Federal Government and the Länder, and will also force the discussion with the individual Cultural Land Councils, so that this offer, which is an opportunity to both operate and enjoy and use culture, can be extended throughout the country. It is not only about the financial basis, but it is also, in reality, about these many programmes, the initiatives that are being set up, with the aim of making cultural projects accessible to the general public, that they should: the man can experience and not just an elite. As a particularly successful example, I think, one can mention here the Cloud Tower project from Lower Austria, at Grafenegg Castle, which has now become a sign far beyond the country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] That is why, at this point, I also thank all the professional cultural creators who provide powerful things that really give Austria a positive light, but also my great thanks to the many volunteers in all our villages, in all our communities, who, with their commitment at many different levels, make this country so vital. I am thinking, for example, of the more than 140 000 members in our Austrian band of wind music, but also of those in the lay theatres and of all the many others who are involved on site and who really open the door and door to people into the world of art and culture, also mentally, also emotionally, and thus make a very large and valuable contribution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to mention – and this will be an important step in the next few years – the announcement by Federal Minister Blümel that transparency in the field of these cultural promotions must also be kept in mind, that there must be an agreement between the individual institutions and that it must be clear who will support what means in the future. And the second one he has also announced: to observe closely the personnel costs under his sovereignty in the future and to introduce a salary pyramid here so that we have a fair compensation for all the cultural workers in that country. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18969	Next item is Mrs Mag.a Ruth Becher's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e18993	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Budget Committee and the answers to the questions were very informative, especially because there were no concrete answers. Thus, on my question, where new accents or savings impulses would be set, i.e. less funds spent than in 2017, I got the following answer: Subject to an application, the same conditions of claim or rights and consistent legal claims, institutions that received grants in 2017 can in principle also receive funds in the same amount as in 2017. So I take note that it would be more effective to ask the institutions themselves which accents they set instead of the Minister responsible. With regard to the Austrian Federal Museums, which make an excellent contribution to the enthusiasm of young people for art, culture and history, I wanted to know what the distribution key for 2018 looks like, and I also did not receive a concrete answer: We don't know yet. This fits in with this overall picture of the cultural budget, which reads as follows: Let things run, just don't catch up, don't dare anything new, don't give any direction, be careless on cultural issues. In reality, this does not satisfy the wealth of Austrian cultural life, which makes Austria neither richer in tourism nor in the enthusiasm of new generations for culture. With this policy, we are at risk of Austria becoming increasingly a cultural site of any kind, boring and unclaimable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19032	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Taschner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19054	Madam President. High house! I allow myself to add just a few short footnotes. Dear Mr Mag. Drozda! You have just said that the figures in the cultural budget are all right. We're very glad. And you also said that the government programme is very ambitious. That too is the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] You can be assured that the government will always take this ambitious government programme as an example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Dr. Rosenkranz! A small footnote I allow myself to make what you have said, namely, that you have only four sections that are used there: There is actually a secret cultural policy, so to speak, and that is about teaching policy, about schools. [[Abg. Rosary: Yes, of course! It's also in the government programme!]] In fact, it is crucial that schools really make cultural policy for young people. In this There are also larger numbers, by the way, and this is also a good sign for this country to promote and demand it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl said there was too little money. That's an old-fashioned thing. The money invented the Phoenicians, just: too little. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But the challenge for the whole is: In companies with scarce goods, the largest cultural achievements were created. In this respect, it may not be the very best thing to give everyone the slaring land. The challenges that arise for the artists are much more interesting, that's really something you should consider. Mr Schellhorn said that we, the ÖVP, had given up cultural policy, everything was left to the FPÖ. I can say it: The FPÖ is not left. Do you know who makes culture and who produces culture? – The cultural creators themselves! The cultural creators themselves do this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We create the framework conditions that they can do this, such as the framework conditions that really make it possible for them to do a good job. Mr Mag. Zinggl! Consider, for example, the room in which we are here! It was a politician who still claimed today that he was retro until then, it was a politician who was then Minister of Economic Affairs and said: We design this space completely new with a modern work of art. And today we have the pleasure to see all these gigantic works of art by Josef Mikl here and, by the way, to enjoy this aura of space, which is perhaps even better than then in five years, when we will be back in the old Parliament, and to be able to entertain ourselves in a stylish and cultural nation of Austria, also about the culture. [[Abg. Noll: What, five years is the delay?]] [[Abg. Loacker: You are planning the delay!]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19145	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Harald Türt. – Please, Mr Abordne tr.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19174	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Government Convention, this coalition is committed to promoting Austrian art and culture, but let's look at the facts, let's look at what it really looks like! The fact is, there is 456 million euros for art and culture this year. This is a big celebration as an increase. But if you're thinking that there's also money depreciation, then we're under the inflation rate. So there's a huge explanation here that's not the case. If we then look at the figures for the year 2019 – we have a double budget – then we find that there is a real reduction in the budget, and I do not think this is favourable for this country at all. [[Abg. Rosary: How much?]] And then Member Rosenkranz explains: The Austrian cultural nation will not go down with this budget. – It will not go down, but thanks to the cultural creators who do a great deal for this country, and thanks to the Austrians who go to the concerts and exhibitions, but not thanks to this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: But I still go to the concert!]] In 2018 there is a focus of structural measures. These structural measures are good, but from the total budget those who create culture lose resources, and so it cannot go! I would like to give you an example: the music scene in Austria. Now I don't mean the classical, I mean the boys who create music that is being trained. Here too, it is shortened. The Austrian Music Fund is muffled with ridiculous 580 000 euros. This is a promotion of young people, and nothing is done. I think this is very, very harmful for the cultural and for the music nation of Austria. There's something done here! Also the confession to a quota for Austrian music remains a lip confession. Where are the achievements of this government with a view to obtaining a quota for the promotion of Austrian music? - Nothing is done! That's too little. That is, in terms of cultural policy, I have to give the blue-black coalition five notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19244	The next item is the speech by Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19269	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House and in particular love See today's National Council! Culture is an important factor for a high quality of life. Culture is identity-building, both nationally and individually. That is why I am pleased that in the field of art and culture, more budget is being spent than in the years before, a total of 457 million euros. That's more than 6 million euros last year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Culture also ensures cross-generational cohesion in our society. In my speech, I can focus briefly on the youngest ones and on what we are planning in the field of youth work and also for children in the cultural field. Culture has much to do with consciousness, awareness of our rich cultural heritage in Austria, and that also has a lot to do with our history and past. 100 years ago the Republic was founded, and 80 years ago with the close the darkest chapter in our history began. My generation is the last one that can still talk to witnesses about this time and can at least imagine what happened in this time through very personal stories. It is therefore all the more important that this commemoration and awareness of our history and culture are also secured for the next generations. It's our responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] With the cultural budget we will also allow this commemoration, also in our schools. In the kindergartens we want to inspire children and then young people for culture, and this is done with a lot of measures. Culture is already to be learned and lived in childhood, for it is beneficial for the development of personality and good for dealing with one another. This has a lot to do with our values. Cultural education is also necessary in order to promote the creativity of young people. In the so-called digital age, we must also be aware that one cannot digitize art, culture and creativity. We have all of this in our hands, and we have to shape it ourselves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In schools we support cooperation with music schools. I was allowed to attend music school for eight years, several times a week. This was a good and nice balance to the stressful everyday learning in school. And even today I can't think of it anymore when I'm at home in Upper Austria to spend time with the music. And the nice thing about the music is that you can play music together, that several generations come together and taste each other intensively. This can be compared a little bit to Parliament, even if it is usually more harmonious in the orchestra. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We ensure that there is continued free entry for children and young people in federal museums, and also promote family benefits. In addition, our schools should be better equipped in terms of instruments and books. And the talent promotion of talented children and young people is also a big concern to me personally. For example, musical, dance, acting talents and skills are supported with their own scholarships, because without young artists, much will no longer be continued, which makes our country so distinguished and so popular for tourism. Whether singer boys or Parov Stelar, Kirtag or Nova Rock, everyone or Mundl Sackbauer, our culture is distinguished by our Austria. Many thanks to all those who are committed to the preservation of many traditions and customs in Austria, and most of them volunteer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19344	Next speaker: Mrs Mag.a Maria Smodics-Neumann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19368	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear spectators at home and here at the top of the gallery! A part of Austrian art and culture is also the film-making scene. Our Federal Minister Blümel used the word 'identity' in the committee, and that is the Austrian film all the time. Circa 3 530 film-making companies are working on this identity foundation in Austria, and these mostly small-structured companies generate turnover of 650 million euros and employ approximately 5 500 employees. I thank you, on behalf of all companies in the film industry, for maintaining film promotion to the same extent in this budget, because this money is an investment in the image of Austria as well as in the economic sectors that have been relocated in film production. It is not the production alone, but we think, for example, of mask or costume designers, of craftsmen who work in the setting area, and of many, many more. But it also has a indirect effect, because because of the international interest in Austrian film tourism also has some of it in Austria. So this is an investment with a huge return on investment, for which I would like to thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like a very brief word to Mrs Mag. Becher, who, so to speak, has made the complaint that there is no concrete statement about who will receive what kind of support: It is precisely this particular feature that you have to apply for it. This also guarantees diversity in art and culture, and that is good. I think it is not in our sense that we always give the same thing to everyone, but that there is really individuality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19407	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19431	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people interested in politics! This is my first plenary day on the subject of budget today. I have followed this discussion today, have listened to the opposition, and I have to say that one could say that with this budget, Austria is still smoothly desecrated. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, about the opposition: Faith You really do? Do you think that's what a broad-elected majority wants? Do you seriously believe that we mean it badly with Austria, with our home country and with people? We have been elected because we have the better ideas and the good concepts, and that is exactly what we want to implement with this budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Austria is a cultural nation, and I now propose to all those present that we like to sign this sentence. If we leave this High House today and march over the Heroes Square and meet people from all over the world who enjoy our federal capital, the cultural goods of the Federal Capital, all that is offered here, then this fills me personally and many others, as I believe, also with pride, with joy and also with a good part patriotism. Let's just turn the time back a few months, for example to the New Year's Concerto: When this event is transferred to 90 countries of the earth and seen by 50 million people who are enthusiastic, it also fills us all with joy and pride and with just this good piece of patriotism. Much, not all, but much of it on an appropriate cultural budget, so I would like to thank Federal Minister Blümel for not only continuing the budget but also increasing it. This is a sustainable and good basis for cultural work in our country. Culture takes place everywhere, and we have to ensure that. We need to develop and strengthen this cultural awareness, because culture is a question of how we deal with each other, especially in this House. Culture is a matter of lifestyle, social cohesion and culture is a matter of joy in life, but also of critical debate on political issues of our time, and culture is also the question of how we deal with our cultural heritage. The current budget promotes these approaches. A better coordination between the federal, state and local authorities – already mentioned – serves to network culture in the regions. In particular, trans-regional projects are to be supported by the federal government. The art programme in the regions is a clear impulse and a clear statement to strengthen rural areas. The good news is: Culturally we build on an excellently prepared foundation. I would like to thank Mr Drozda, who, in the Committee, which has been particularly pleased with me, has said to Minister Blümel that he will support him in what he is doing. It sounded a little different today, but it pleased me. [[Abg. Drozda: If he does something!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to continue to be one of the best cultural nations in the world, if we want to stay at this top, we must not let it down. This concerns the high culture as well as the strengthening of the cultural education offer in schools and the commitment to the cultural mission of our music schools, as Mr Plapolm has already mentioned. This is country-related, but here the cultural base is laid, here cultural foundations are laid, and we must strengthen these foundations. Austria is a cultural nation – and yes, this budget is a good basis for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19474	On the subdivision of art and culture, I now have no more words available. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[17:57:39]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19495	We're going to subdivided 12: Outwards. I welcome Mrs. Kneissesl as the first speaker, Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Andreas Schiederda's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19522	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In the budget debates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not the seat of the highest billions, the budget is around 500 million euros, but it is one of the central departments, because of course also the representation of Austria outside, parts of Europe's policy and essential, central points also for the identity of Austria. Foreign policy is the field that, from an Austrian perspective, should continue to be influenced by concepts such as active neutrality policy, the use of neutrality policy, in order to be seen as an international mediator, especially in increasingly polarised times of crisis, but also as a country – and this also has budgetary implications – which plays a very active role not only in its own interest but also in multilateralism. This means that Austria's participation in international institutions, starting from the United Nations to the OSCE and the other institutions, which are there all, which can shape globalisation in the future and even in the present, and, if you make it reasonable, can also make it positive. These include initiatives such as all the institutions and global disarmament initiatives. Especially for us as Social Democrats, in times when the armaments budgets are exploding globally, of course, the question is to ask: Is this a good way for the world or would it not be the better way that it is in truth also shown that less is invested in armor and upgrade and more in mediation and diplomacy? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This also shows that foreign policy must be value-oriented. And what are the values? – The values can define everyone even more precisely for themselves, but these are of course: human rights-prepared, mediated and at least marked by peace-oriented orientation. There is, when you talk about the chapter Externally, a big black spot to say that honestly, and that is the EZA budget. For years, Austria has had the problem that it does not fulfil the international commitments of 0.7 percent of EZA funds, and unfortunately it is also so compared to the last to the present budget that these funds are reduced. The second big black spot, which belongs to it, is the foreign disaster fund: budgeted at EUR 15 million, although Sebastian Kurz, who should recognize himself because he was a foreign minister himself, said that this could only be a typo, it should be EUR 20 million there. However, there are still 15 million euros there. The blame in this generous self-responsibility was given to the officials once that they had entered the sums incorrectly. However, there is still EUR 15 million, and the amendment that the amount should be increased to EUR 20 million was also depleted by the government parties in the Committee. You only have to say one thing: The election programme of the new EIA has been read by threefold, i.e. 60 million euros; that is, the path leads exactly to the other direction than was discussed here. A second point I would like to address: Today, Emmanuel Macron has given a speech to the European Parliament about his view of Europe, and since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also the Ministry of Europe, there are, I believe, a few points that should be mentioned which are very central. No withdrawal from national egoisms. – This is a commitment to the necessary deepening of the European Union, and deepening the European Union means that the European Union must receive the funds, from us, from the national states to respond to the challenges of the future. Othmar Karas – perhaps also again to Sebastian Kurz’s suffering; perhaps he has once again hand-balled in the bag almost as he read what Karas said, but all the more likes it all the more – as a wake-up call to the small spirits, brakes, concreteists and braves in the governments of the Member States. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] No one is thought to have been addressed, but I still believe that some of them were meant, most likely one or the other from the Austrian Federal Government. – That was said only once. I believe that the deepening of the European Union is the ability to act. This means, for example, the reform of monetary union into a growth union, and that means not only talking about whether it should be more or less, but much more about what we are spending the money in Europe, because we have to spend much more on social cohesion, on growth, on investment in future projects. This debate has not led the Minister of Europe in this direction, which is a pity.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19598	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Roman Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19622	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Mr Schieder, after your speech, it is now known that the chapter on foreign policy continues to apply what Mr Angerer said earlier this morning: It's damn difficult for the opposition, something that's good – like this budget – to talk badly. This is simply not possible, nor is it in relation to the budget for foreign policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] How was that? – lower taxes and taxes, reduce debt and introduce reforms, which is the credo of this government. As one who has had to experience in this House for ten years, how reforms have been delayed and even torpeded in recent years, I am really happy when I see how quickly words can really be implemented when the will is there. This government has just been in office for a quarter of a year, and for a quarter of a year, freedom policy has also been implemented – and in a very short time adequate solutions to long-term problems are already in place. That is working for Austria, which is working for the citizen, ladies and gentlemen, that is the free handwriting in government work! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As far as the budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, I must say that I really express my sincere recognition to you, Mrs. Kneissel. Compared to 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs saves the State of Austria and thus the taxpayer EUR 21 million, thus also fulfilling the requirements of the government programme concerning a quite restrictive budget rate and can nevertheless receive the structure in the country, in particular the tasks of the EU Presidency in the second half of the year. We can secure the operating expenses of the foreign representation authorities and improve security measures as required. The project measures – and in this respect I do not understand you at all, Mr. Schieder – the project measures of development cooperation, the Austrian Development Agency will not only be assured by continuing the 2018 budget, no, it will even increase by 10 million euros for 2019. So what do you want? – It will be spent even more than before. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It goes on – the second critical point you have been looking for: Foreign disaster fund. Yes, the budget says he has been reduced from 20 to 15 million euros, but it has already been explained by the Federal Minister: This is a disaster fund, and if it is necessary for a disaster to make it necessary for us to help, then these 5 million euros can also be covered by the reserves. You don't have to budget that extra. It is also to be said: With this budget we comply with international commitments in the form of our contributions to international organisations. Last and not least point: The funds for integration, for the implementation of the Integration Act are also made available in sufficient quantity. In the area of integration, it must be pointed out clearly that there will no longer be any disbursements with this government on asylum seekers. Whoever does not have a permanent right of residence here is not a subject of integration, even if certain areas and parts of SPÖ do not like. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This would not be in the sense of an efficient asylum and integration policy and not even in the sense of the Austrians. However, if you really have to flee from death and terror and persecution, you will find here in Austria more than ever a safe port. This year alone, 51 million euros will be made available for integration by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and all projects financed by this budget will benefit German courses, value courses and the like, recognised asylum seekers. Especially the German courses are also a focus, because only those who willingly learn our language have any potential for integration. As far as the number of asylum seekers is concerned, we know that they will fall. We are expected to have a lower flow, and at the same time the number of illegal migrants can be reduced, not least thanks to the rapid and competent work of our Minister of the Interior Herbert Kickl – thus also here liberal handwriting. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] So you see, ladies and gentlemen: If the will to change is there, then some things can be achieved, and that is precisely the reason why the voters have chosen the Freemans into the government and the SPÖs out of the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19710	Next speaker: Mrs. Dr. Stephanie Krisper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19735	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The external budget is basically economical, and this is very welcome in many respects, but not in everyone. We have already talked in committee about what is bothering us, and you have been very annoyed in a very evocative way, that I will raise the issue again, nevertheless here again: EZA and foreign disaster funds. I'm afraid I have to irritate you more often with these questions, because fact is that what was promised was not kept here. I remember: The EIA's election programme for the National Council election said: “In Austria’s bilateral development cooperation, [...] the funds of the Austrian Development Agency will reach 155 million by 2021. Euro is almost doubled. The aim is to further increase the funds of the foreign disaster fund for humanitarian aid in order to help those affected even better in the event of wars, hunger or natural disasters." The government programme adopted by ÖVP and FPÖ states: “A commitment to greater local assistance and to the long-term objective of increasing EZA to 0.7% of GDP, increased linkage to third countries’ willingness to cooperate in the withdrawal of rejected asylum seekers”, plus “an increase in the foreign disaster fund”. The strategy report on this budget and its objectives will also repeat these commitments, but they will not be found in the budget. Mrs Bundesminister, I know that you are concerned about the EZA and the achievement of the 0.7% target. I know that you and the section chief are in the “Klub 0,7” and you seem to be empty for a few seconds too, when your employees could not answer the question until the target should be 0,7 percent for the EZA. Now we have the curious situation that the government, according to the National Council election programme, wanted what the opposition – we all agree – also wants and you want it. Now is the time to be consistent here and finally make a proposal for a legally binding level plan with binding realistic intermediate targets, by which we achieve this 0.7 percent as soon as possible. We have already requested this as NEOS, just as we, as opposition, have tabled an amendment to increase the AKF and the EZA. I would ask you, Mrs Minister, to: Do not use your strength and eloquence to keep us in the committees of the Cetera that we address the contradiction between the intention and the promised and the budget, but to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19786	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr.in Kneissel has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19807	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I'll ask you to forgive me in advance: I'm going to have to suck away relatively on time at 6.30 p.m. I fly through Bucharest to Amman tonight, hoping to arrive there at 4 p.m. in the morning, but I would like to give you as much time as possible to answer perhaps some question. . Thank you very much for giving me a short list of speakers. Thank you! I have listened carefully to the statements made by the previous Members, and I have had the pleasure of speaking to some of you in the Committee on Budgets. My job is mainly objectively oriented, I try to bring it over language as well. Thank you for the compliment of the eloquence, but as I said, my main focus is at least on the content. The Foreign Ministry's draft budget for 2018 amounted to around 502,6 million euros on the expenditure side and about 508,4 million euros for 2019. The 2017 budget was slightly higher, i.e. EUR 551 million, of which EUR 541 million were reported as provisional success on the part of expenditure. The Federal Government's requirements for the restrictive budget rate can be met with these budget proposals, with a further EUR 24 million being made available for the double budget from the reserve budget of my department. I will try to deal briefly with some of the issues that have now been priority, such as EZA and AKF, but may begin with the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – in particular the internal structure and the representation of our network of representations. S. With this budget, we can maintain the internal structure and, in particular, cover expenditure for the EU Presidency in the second half of the year, amounting to around 7 million euros. . I should like to point out that expenditure for the EU Presidency is covered exclusively by external funds. The operating burden for the representative authorities is secured. This was particularly the case with the representation authorities in terms of the fulfilment of essential safety standards, particularly those relating to the consulate area. I myself had the opportunity to look at some of the representative authorities in these first three months: We have some buildings where the consulate area offers perfect safety standards, but not only that, but also where the job opportunities for consulate officials and visa seekers are appropriate, I would say that we also have other representative authorities. . Last week I had the opportunity to take a picture of myself in Beijing, I know the representative authorities in Damascus and Beirut, where we have a very high visa attack, and there it is easy to improve the safety standards and working conditions for employees as well as for visa seekers. As far as the means of integration and the implementation of the Integration Act are concerned, I can assure you that we have succeeded in ensuring measures of the Integration Act, especially with regard to the free provision of language courses with level A1 and free-value courses. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The project measures relating to development cooperation – with the outsourced agency, the Austrian Development Agency – are ensured. With regard to 2019, the continuation of the funds will be increased by 10 million euros. I thank you for reminding me that a doubling has been promised. This doubling has not succeeded in us at present because of the restrictive budget targets. – Member Stephanie Krisper has pointed out that this is only medium-term. Yeah, we don't have a clear definition of that. I am going to commit myself – Mr Haider has pointed out that we have only been in office for three or four months – for whatever is possible. We have been faced with budget work directly, already in January, and I have tried to secure what was to be secured within the first few months. I will contribute to bringing something together within the EZA, not just as far as the budgetary is concerned. It's all about me – and I'm not just about the EZA, I'm doing it in many other areas – about the content, the operational. As far as the media is concerned, I have proposed a very, very strong reduction. The media work was massively shortened in my department, in some areas by 70.80 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] As far as disaster aid under the AKF is concerned, Mr Haider has already carried it out, I would like to remind you briefly of the cure – I have mentioned it in the Committee on Budgets – that: The foreign disaster fund was created in 2004 against the background of the tsunami. The foreign disaster fund is not an additional EZA fund! It is intended for disasters, and this can be an earthquake in northern Italy as well as a drought or hunger disaster. We will present two Council of Ministers in the Council of Ministers together with the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance tomorrow: On the one hand, next week for the Syria Conference, I have already made it available to the International Committee of the Red Cross for work in Syria 3 million euros for Yemen 1 million euros, and the Unicef Children's Service receives 1 million euros for Syria. With regard to Syria, I may briefly inform you about the following – which was also the subject of our discussions with the Council of Foreign Ministers in Luxembourg yesterday –: I'm in contact with UN Special Staffan de Mistura. Whatever the case, whether we are holding the Geneva UN format of the talks in Vienna or in a different format, there is a lot in motion at the moment – at least we are available as hosts. In my department, I have been charged what this host role would cost: It costs 60 000 euros per day. We have for the Iran Conferences between 2014 and 2015 the Nuclear Agreement of 14. In July 2015, a total of 6 million euros were paid. That was our contribution, if They want to be a diplomatic master achievement, which hopefully also the 12. May survives. It is in the room that US President Trump signed the agreement on 12 February. May be sissier. It is not only as a host, but not least because of the budgetary implications I have just listed to you, it is a very special concern to keep the Iran Agreement – among other things the subject of yesterday's deliberations. If demand exists, we are very happy to be host and perhaps also available for a conference in Syria. I have therefore also indicated that routine conferences, which perhaps fit better into an academic framework, are not perceived by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but that we are using the budget at our disposal for a genuinely operational foreign policy, and this includes, for example, the holding of an Syria conference if such a one should arise. As far as the AKF is concerned, I should like to add to what honourable Member Haider said earlier: We have 15 million euros fixed in the budget and we can count on 5 million euros from our own reserves. It can, if there is a disaster – this is what the word disaster describes, an unforeseen event, a force major – then we will hopefully be in cooperation with all of you, because in the end it is you who decide on this budget that can provide funds – whether because of a natural violence or a political disaster, which was unforeseeable and in this sense corresponds to the legal basis of the AKF, according to which we can act. Let's say it again. The AKF is not an additional EZA fund! I know the report and the criticism of it, but I can remind you again that the AKF was launched in December 2004. It was about the tsunami and not about EZA. As far as the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are concerned, I may briefly confront you with some of my view very interesting key figures. As Headquarters in perfect cooperation with the Vienna City College, which, in this respect I am expressly grateful to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been very, very good at working with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the role of the Vienna Headquarters, spending a total of 15 million euros on the Austrian side between BMEIA and the City of Vienna, but have a national demand effect, and there is a 2014 study of 1.4 billion euros. This concerns 40 international organisations with a volume of around EUR 725 million; we speak of 6 000 staff and 10 000 jobs, with a large number of these jobs with Austrian citizens. I have spoken briefly about the EU Presidency and that we will challenge it from our own resources. Let me briefly address our consular achievements: 942,000 consular actions were committed in the previous year. This is about the care of Austrian citizens who are in need – whether they are hospital visits, prison visits, or even simply demand, because family members do not answer on the phone. So there were 942,000 consular actions, which, of course, also causes overtime. We had an overtime budget of 0.8 million euros last year, but this is simply explained by the fact that many employees are often on the weekend or after 18, 19 o'clock to be there for consular work. In the previous year, 330 000 visas were issued and we spent a total of 22 million euros on humanitarian aid. As far as the official share of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in our international development assistance is concerned, our ODA share is 10 percent. I can also remind you that the EZA is a cross-sectional matter. A very large part of the development cooperation is carried out through payments to multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and other institutions, and they run directly through the Ministry of Finance. So where it is about contributions to UN organisations or NGOs or even operating funds via the ADA for EZA projects, our share is 10 percent, and that we provide. We will continue to work to achieve the 0.7 percent target. I should like to focus briefly on integration and to bother you with the following figures: With our budget, we financed value and orientation courses for 20,000 participants in the previous year, and for 21,000 people, recognised refugees, places in German courses – as said, these are German at A1 level. To our compulsory contributions to international organisations – or to the voluntary contributions in a certain way – also need to be considered as compulsory contributions: Last year, we paid EUR 81 million, voluntary contributions EUR 15 million, among other things 2 million for the Ukraine Mission of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which we continue to maintain in this sense, especially with regard to neighbourhood policy and our commitment in Ukraine. I can apologise, as I said, but I am at your disposal for questions. Questions which I cannot answer may I pass on to my colleagues, but as long as time is enough, I am happy to answer. I'll be at your disposal for 5 to 10 minutes, then I'll apologize, but I didn't have any other way to fly. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not use any need flyers. We are often on the road with two ports of call, and I have such a trip tonight before me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19933	Mr Reinhold Lopatka has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e19957	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I can thank you at the beginning for your commitment, because Austria, as a small export-oriented economy, needs ministers who are on the move without a break. They are a minister who practices this when it comes to economic interests, but also, which is also very important, in the field of diplomacy. Diplomacy will always be more and more cost-effective, but above all much, much more human than military conflicts when it comes to solutions. Even here you do a lot if we offer Vienna as a place of dialogue, and now again the hour of diplomacy has come when I think of Syria to come up with solutions. These are always much more, much cheaper than wartime. Even if we had to spend more than 60 000 euros a day, the money would be well-created if we could make a contribution. – I wanted to say that at the beginning. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In fact, Austria is doing a lot, far more, than the size of our country. Only one sentence, because Mr Engelberg will then speak in detail to the EZA, to Mrs. Krisper: With all that is justified in criticism, you should also see the plant grow here, so to speak, as far as the ADA is concerned. We will be 2019 be back there, which was actually the highest level the ADA has given to national funds. The ADA has succeeded in increasing funding from the European Union for projects implemented by the ADA, and thus the ADA has grown as far as the volume is concerned. Other numbers have already been mentioned. The ADA, when it comes to development cooperation, employs 130 people, with 40 still working on the ground. Austria as a net payer – and the European Union is the largest payer in terms of development cooperation – is also making a big contribution with the EU. It must be taken into account when it comes to money. We have a good global network of representations, you mentioned it, Mrs. Minister. There are more than 80 embassies with very, very well trained diplomats and diplomats. About half of the 1 100 employees who have the foreign office are abroad, the other half here with us. There are always initiatives taken by Austria, which are also very important to the UN. Finally, we have taken a decision in this respect as regards the ratification of the comprehensive ban on the use of nuclear weapons. An example of one of the nine offices the UN has here with us in Vienna is this office – important, you have addressed it, also from the value added. Vienna is becoming more and more important next to New York, next to Geneva. This is also very important: Yes, we are, of course, a pro-European government, but we should not always be too European, too bruising. We also have important tasks to do within the whole of the Community, since I am particularly referring to the UN and our commitment there. Finally, a few sentences on another subject, because Klubobmann had some kind of concern about our EU Presidency and the pro-European orientation of this Federal Government: There's no one to worry about. Federal Chancellors In short, Macron is in very good conversations, but German Chancellors Kurz, of course, is also looking for the conversation with other Heads of Government, because we need to see the concerns and fears of the population after the financial crisis in 2008, after the refugee crisis in 2015. This is where national governments have different answers – that is also what I mean by our immediate neighbours Hungary. It is important, however, to involve these countries and not to reject them from the European Union, so to speak. And this pro-European attitude, with this commitment to building bridges, bringing this European Union together, we will take it to the EU Presidency in the second half of the year. You will see that this third presidency, which is serving Austria, will be just as good as the first two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20014	In addition to the communication concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government, I say goodbye to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr.in Kneissl, who is represented by the Federal Minister for Digitalization and Economic Location Dr.in Schramböck for the remaining duration of the treatment of sub-division 12. I hope this one's in the house. For the remaining debate and the meeting, you will then be represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl, but Mrs Schramböck is scheduled for the UG 12. Mrs. Federal Minister Kneissl, are you still waiting for your representation, Mrs. Schramböck, to come? – – Well, then [[Federal Minister Kneissl nodds.]] Let us continue in the speaker list. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Jörg Leichtfried.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20062	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I'm glad you've been given me a moment. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today the sentence has already fallen: Budget is a policy cast in figures. If you look at foreign policy and European policy, there are already some different views on how to evaluate it. Mr Krisper said it would be good if it were to be saved and the whole thing became more efficient. Mr Haider also said that this is not so bad, especially in comparison to what the predecessor has done so to speak. [[Abg. Haider: It's good! It's good!]] Who was that quick, Mr. Colleague? [[Abg. Tiny: Very funny!]] But you can also see it a little differently, as I see it. I believe that this shortfall in foreign and European policy shows the value some feel in this coalition for foreign and European policy – I do not say all, I take you up deliberately, Mrs Foreign Minister, because I have known you as very competent and very committed so far. I mean, however, that even in times of major crises worldwide, in times of a European Union which find its way very difficult and not really consistent, money could be better invested in foreign policy, in European policy than in any, previously quoted basket money that the Federal Chancellor has provided, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] You can also see the value in the government programme: If three out of 180 countries are dealing with foreign and European policy, that is not much. I somehow have the feeling that a truly competent foreign minister is guided as far as possible on the so-called short line, so that not too much of other competences is made independent, ladies and gentlemen – and that is not what I think is right in this case. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is more than the last government programme, Mr Leichtfried!]] But foreign policy is not just a budget, foreign policy is also an attitude. I must say that an example from the recent past has already irritated me, and I believe that Austria may go the wrong way. It was in the UK, we all know, a murder attack on a young woman and her father. You'll probably survive, but it's also a police officer very ill, who was pitied in this attack. As a result, there has been remarkable solidarity among the Member States of the European Union against the suspected causer, and Austria has been one of the few countries that were not present. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] It was also true that this act was condemned by barbarian state terrorism by all the Member States of the European Union, not only by all the Member States of the European Union, but also by many other countries around the world. And Austria, ladies and gentlemen, was not there. [[Abg. Gudenus: The unknown culprit is to blame!]] It was also true that 23 Member States of the European Union and other States have qualified diplomats. [[Federal Minister Kneissl: 17!]] Austria was not there, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haider: We are neutral! Don't pour oil into the fire!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] [[Abg. Little: That's wrong!]] I am afraid that Austria will become an unsafe cantonist of Russian interests in this European Union, and that is not Austria's place. [[Call at the FPÖ:Austria is neutral!]] And, ladies and gentlemen, there is no neutrality against murderers either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20230	Mr Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20254	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Leichtfried, I think that you are a little bit in Your speech has been galopted, because that Mrs Foreign Minister, of whom we are glad that she has this office, because she is doing an excellent job, does not respond to suspicion, but only wants to respond to evidence, is a strength of our country. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is a strength of the Republic of Austria, a strength of Karin Kneissel, and it is also a strength of this new federal government which undoubtedly rules differently than you did. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have the EU Presidency in the second half of the current year, and the Minister has already pointed out that she will challenge this EU Presidency with a budget of 7.6 million euros. There is enough resources to cover European policy, Mr Leichfried. One takes this issue very seriously. The second half of this year, the EU Presidency of our Federal Government and the EU Presidency of the Republic will be the main objective of the political work of both government parties. Mr Lopatka has already mentioned that there are no differences at all between the two government parties. However, we will do our utmost, and the Foreign Minister and the Federal Chancellor have already said that we are also setting new priorities at European level. It will not be enough, Mr Arbitrator, that we are just saying that the Union needs to deepen, but we will already have to do intellectual work, to say where it is going to deepen and where the European Union is going to take back. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will try to do this work in the second half of the year. It is about the fact that the European Union is finally becoming operational in the big things and is shrinking in the small ones and not regulating the tanning of Pommes frites, but, for example, ensuring the security of the EU's external borders or a functioning economic and monetary policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The aim of the European Presidency will also be to make it clear that, if it wants a future, the European Union will have to change. The European Union will have to be recovered from the abyss to which it has been led by the previous policy. This will be our task with regard to European policy in the next few years. That is why it is also beneficial if we have foreign policy politicians calling for the European Union to create an independent foreign policy. A separate foreign policy is one of the major powers of the United States and Russia, and not a unilateral party, but a test of evidence and then a decision on how the Republic of Austria will really behave. This is a reasonable foreign policy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that our foreign minister again offered Austria's role as mediator in the Syria conflict is excellent. The other at European level is a new policy, but that at international level is good Austrian tradition. The Republic Austria will act as a mediator and will also try to play a role in this catastrophic conflict in Syria in order to improve the weight of the Republic at international level. Ladies and gentlemen! Foreign policy is not only a good development in budgetary areas, but also in content. We will be consistent at European and international level.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20341	The next item is Mrs Petra Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20363	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I start with the foreign disaster fund and share in content and form. In terms of content, it is not quite true that it is only about unexpected crises. For example, the Syrian refugee camps have unfortunately been available for years, and it is good that money comes from the foreign disaster fund to improve their living conditions there. And there are disasters that have been forgotten, which are frozen, which are foreseeable – in priority countries, for example, hunger disasters – and those that are unexpected, and for all these cases, we need strategies because we have to expect more of these crises in the future. The fact that the foreign disaster fund is not tripled, as promised in the ÖVP election programme, but reduced by a quarter, I think is a real witness to poverty. The Party of Foreign Minister Kurz has promised something that the German Chancellor's party must not hold at once. This is really unfortunate and speaks for itself. If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the “ZIB 2”, is referring to it, fleeing from the fact that it was supposedly a typo of an official, then I think it really is last-class personally, and I highly charge the foreign minister that she has presented herself to her officials and made it clear to them: She had a spasm, and of course it wasn't an official's fault. However, I would also like to address the bilateral EZA. When we founded the ADA, colleague Lopatka, the idea was that within a few years the budget of the ADA should grow to 1 billion euros in order to really reach this 0.7 percent path. That you want to celebrate that we will be back at 100 million euros soon, is either a bit of a backlog of history or oblivion, I don't know. There is also the following: The path promised by Foreign Minister Kurz, where we simply need 15.5 million euros each year cumulatively to reach this 154 million euro by 2021, which would be a doubling, is not found in the budget. Although Mr Haider says that we have an increase of 10 million euros in 2019, that is not the original promised path. The basic calculations are known: 2018 is missing 15.5 and 2019 21 million euros to continue on this path – that is, everything is okay! Fortunately, we are discussing this foreign policy budget at a time when the supplement to the development cooperation budget is already on the table, and if we look in there, we are told that we will have an ODA share of 0.24 percent by 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, that's naughty! We are far from moving somewhere towards 0.7 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 0.24 percent will prophesy us, and I do not see what is being done about it. In this sense, I would like to make a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs to first increase the foreign disaster fund, as promised, to EUR 60 million, second once for 2018 EUR 15.5 million and for 2019 -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20405	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) You have to read the motion for a resolution in full, not just in terms of content. He has to be read now, otherwise he is not properly introduced.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20420	I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:47]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20559	Thank you many times, ladies and gentlemen. The motion for a resolution has now been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Martin Engelberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20586	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I'm totally out of the concept now. In fact, it would be my job as a spokesperson for development cooperation to discuss development cooperation, but Mr Leichfried has totally confused me. [[Abg. Excuse me!]] You have actually said here: These are murderers, and that must be sanctioned. – Now I wonder – I mean, I’m not in the National Council for so long, but I live relatively long in Austria –: What was the position of the SPÖ in the Iraq War, about a million-fold murderer? What was the position of the SPÖ in the Syria War? What is the SPÖ's position when attacks take place in Israel, where murderers are always spoken not of but of freedom fighters? [[Abg. This is an error, Mr Deputies!]] [[Abg. Haider: Well, that's right!]] How does it look with the coup in Moscow when Gorbachev was thrown down and the SPÖ has spoken about perhaps having to deal with the new rulers – just like the Allerster! – will arrange? Mr Leichtfried, you are, of course, a much more experienced colleague here in Parliament, but I must honestly say that has completely irritated me. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I will try to take a short look at the EZA budget. Yes, the discussions were very controversial and emotional. And, of course, we are all concerned to support as many people as possible who need support as we need our help in their development. This is not for us to debate. For us, however, there is one thing, or for me there might be a point that came to my mind. In the last few weeks and months, I have had a lot of conversations – I am not yet so long as development cooperation speakers – and I believe that in the very first conversation I have had with a friend who has been working in this field for many years, he has told me about the following: For anyone who wants to make you know, he or she would know exactly how much money one should put into exactly what project, because it is best used there, you can assume that it is a charlatan. I think we have a big job with the money we have available to get the optimal out. And perhaps once again – because it always came from the opposition again and again now – to this reduction of the funds for the AKF by 5 million euros: Let us stick to what the Minister has said here again. It is very likely that 20 million euros will be available if there is a need for disaster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] It should also be taken into account that this disaster fund has not been available for so long, only since the tsunami in 2004, and that this disaster fund has been spent for many years with EUR 5 million. Only the current Federal Chancellor Kurz, then Foreign Minister, has gradually quadrupled him to 20 million euros, and these funds are still available. I think that what is particularly important to us is – and I would like to join Mr Lopatka once again – that we also appreciate what our NGOs in Austria are doing in the field of development cooperation. I have – as has been said – held a lot of discussions over the past few weeks and months, and I must say that I am very impressed by the excellent achievements that have been achieved, the high degree of specialization being done in projects, and that we can be really proud that in the end, too, the European Union is increasingly providing large projects to our Austrian Development Agency. To conclude: I would like us here in the House to find constructive cooperation in the area of development cooperation with both the government partner and the spokespersons of the opposition. A constant discourse and exchange are essential factors in achieving joint development cooperation efforts to help all those who need our support. Let us not lose ourselves in accusations, but let us join together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20661	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Muna Duzdar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20720	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to keep in mind that, as a social democracy, we always condemn any attacks on people, and I would like to reject this accusation that has been made in the room. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, Syria has been a subject, and yes, in fact, Syria is a major challenge and a difficult patch. That is why I also welcome the Foreign Minister's opinion, as she said in the Committee, that basically everyone involved in the negotiating table must, and I also share her view, when she says that military strikes without a UN mandate are illegal to international law. I think that's what's going on, because while holding fast to the international lawfulness of military strikes without UN mandate, the Federal Chancellor says he understands military strikes. I ask you: Since when do we, as a neutral country, understand military strikes without a UN mandate, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The foreign policy of the Austrian Federal Government is more than contradictory. Sometimes it seems to me that Foreign Minister Kneissl has to run out permanently and with a garden hose clear these forest fires, which are triggered by her colleagues. Every time it deletes a tree, two other trees burn. [[Abg. Haider: Such a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] I would remind you, for example, of the various unqualified statements made by Vice-Cancellor Strache to the conflicts in the Balkans, where the Foreign Minister had to row back; for example, the Minister of the Interior Kickl, who is also promoting the double citizenship of South Tyrol, had to blame the Foreign Minister; or also the Federal Chancellor, who is now suddenly a military striker, had to relativize the foreign minister again. I would like to ask myself, ladies and gentlemen: Who is actually giving the foreign policy line of this federal government? [[Abg. Hauser: Thank God, not you!]] I do not see a single line here, but a consistent contradiction. When we speak of the external budget, ladies and gentlemen: Yes, it is indeed about what money is spent on in the sense of international relations. A large post will, of course, have been – not a question – also the trip to China. I ask you not to misunderstand me, I am the last one to say that the Federal Government should not travel to China. Of course, I think it is important, economic and also political, only the essential question is: What has been the political output? - A panda photo? The panda photo could have been cheaper on a trip to the Tiergarten Schönbrunn. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Small: 1.5 billion for the economy!]] But what's behind that? – After that, it’s all the time show policy that it’s not about essential things. [[Abg. Small: Economy is not essential at SPÖ, we know that anyway!]] The same will happen to us at the EU Presidency. There will be jubilant events again, beautiful photos, the Federal Chancellor will be present in many newspapers. [[Calls of Deputies Worm and Hauser.]] There will only be groundbreaking steps, because this federal government operates a policy of marketing bubbles and the show. [[Abg. Worm: But go!]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20846	Next speaker: Mr Wendelin Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20870	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Values Watchers in front of TV screens! High house! Mrs Duzdar, please don't give me that. The show you delivered there was very good. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Wait a minute: meuffiert?- Oh, my God!]] - Well, she's been feeling pretty evocative right now. That's not good for the cycle, I think. Master of the production and the show was Mr. Klubobmann Kern, he admitted it himself. There you don't need to follow the motto: As the bad guy thinks, so is he!, trying to interpret anything in there. We are making a policy of action, and this is also a good thing in the budget, contrary to your unknowings, against your partly wrongful accusations. This is generally a very good budget. We have already discussed this in many areas today, and we will show it in the next few days. We have heard many major issues today, we have many big and important things we are planning, but there are also small things that have a certain importance. They all know, ladies and gentlemen, that for years and days, the protection and preservation of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia, the autochthonic old Austrian minority, has been a major concern for us. This is not only a matter for us liberals, we know, but we have already adopted resolutions unanimously here in the House on several occasions, in which we have jointly known – and hopefully we will do so again during this legislative period – that we want to support this German-speaking minority in Slovenia in finally finding recognition by the Republic of Slovenia. This is an important symbol for us and an important thing. We know that this minority is still subject to certain discriminations in everyday life, and I think it is high in time in a Europe of 21st century. In the 20th century, the Republic of Slovenia is also doing its homework so to speak; especially when we consider that in Carinthia, for example, we are exemplaryly protecting and maintaining the Slovenian-speaking minority, as we have been attested several times by different sides, and that we are really taking essential measures here. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] But it is not just about symbols and symbolic policies, and that is why I come to the budget now: In 2016, I had to mount at the last budget debate that this German-speaking minority in Slovenia has only received EUR 20 000 project-related funding for years and days. Fortunately, we have doubled this amount in the current budget from 20 000 to 40 000 euros. I am aware that this is even a small step, but it is once a step in the right direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister – who has already gone on trips – at this point that she has announced that she will not only pay this funding for projects, but will also, in the future, convert it to basic funding, which is also a very important point. I think that's gonna help a little bit. In addition, I am also pleased that we have agreed in the government programme – and this is certainly the more important step – to consider whether we could possibly establish an Austrian foreign school in Slovenia, such as to strengthen the minority. This would certainly be a very interesting measure that could contribute to the protection and preservation of the German-speaking minority. I am aware that these are only small steps or that we are only here at the beginning, because as a Carinthian, I know what really means good minority protection policy. I hope or am very good things that we have taken the right course and will continue successfully and well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20923	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is the report by Mr Unterrainer. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e20970	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! I want to start speaking with a praise. Mrs. Kneissesl is now no longer here, but she has certainly been more often and longer in the plenary room in her short term than she has been in the last four years. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Federal Minister Kneissesl mentioned in the Committee on Syria, and that certainly is more so that the decision-makers need to sit at a table for a short or long time to find a solution with which both sides can live. Only in this way can peace be secured in the long term, in conversation, in international dialogue. Austria must make a contribution and make available appropriate resources in order to be able to carry out these tasks as well. As we have heard today, in about 60,000 euros per day, but they are best invested. Unfortunately, the budget speaks another language. This budget clearly shows that the interests of the government are, in fact, to allow more budgets to flow into their own marketing activities, including the plans of the chancellor and vice chancellor, than to the mediating foreign policy, where it would be recommended. In today's international political situation, to cut the budget of a foreign ministry by 39 million euros, almost 10 percent, to sum up locations abroad or to deduct representations for cost reasons, to move funds from one budget area to another, in order not to say that one simply does not want to do it any more, that does not look like the political international mission is really being taken seriously. At a time when the world's policy situation is becoming increasingly unstable, it would be appropriate to budget funds for more international representations in order to be able to really approach the formulated objectives of impact. Ensuring the foreign, security, Europe and economic interests of Austria in Europe and in the world is an effective goal. How should Austria fulfil this political mission if the funds for it are inevitably reduced? But when it comes to measures to promote Austrian economic interests vis-à-vis third countries, there is a slight increase, and that is positive. However, this is not the only way to create international peace. The contribution as an active member of the international community, as we see it as Austria, is probably lost sight of here. For this to happen, international locations are necessary, for this to happen, a mediating position is necessary, which can only be implemented if the framework conditions are created or at least maintained, and if this access is seriously meant, then this will also be reflected in the budget. However, this budget clearly shows one thing: more budget for the marketing of government parties and less budget for political, mediating presence at international level. That is a pity, a shame for the people, a shame for Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21013	The next item is the speech by Mr Lasar. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21034	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a number of points today, even though a lot has already been raised. The Federal Government's requirements for the restrictive budget can be largely met with the draft budget, with a further EUR 24 million being made available for the double budget from the reserve budget of the resort. With this budget, we can mainly receive the internal structure, in particular the tasks of the EU Presidency in the second half of 2018. We can also secure the operational burden of the foreign representation authorities and meet the new security challenges. Above all, however, we can provide sufficient resources for the implementation of the Integration Act. I would particularly like to point out consular work, but the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done so briefly, but perhaps it should be said once more and more what the officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are doing in the consular departments. More than 330 000 visas per year are issued, there are well over 900 000 consular actions, humanitarian aid and cetera, if people often don't know about it anymore, because the passport or the money has been stolen from them, there is really great support. There has already been some criticism of foreign disaster funds. You know, Mr Schieder – is he in the hall at all?, no – I cannot understand the criticism of the opposition to the foreign disaster fund. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[New call to the SPÖ.]] – Simple: We have talked about this in the committees, and it has been answered to you exactly why it is. You know exactly, there are no cuts in the foreign disaster fund in 2018. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] The funds available to the foreign disaster fund are the same as in 2017. That's exactly the amount there was when you were from the SPÖ also in the government – and you didn't criticise yourself, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! That's all right and cheap enough for you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] But we have now said about disaster fund, if there is a disaster, which is largely - - – that is not true, what is happening. [[Abg. Bayr:... 5 million is nothing new!]] You say! [[Abg. Bayr: I'm going! Then look into the budget!]] - You have to see one thing: He was taught with 15 million, now there are still 10 million euros, and you are still not satisfied with them. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Bayr and Mr Yılmaz.]] You have been told several times that if there is a crisis to an extent that calls for an excess of these amounts, of course additional resources will be made available. So what do you want? [[New call of the abg. Bayr.]] Do you know what disasters happen tomorrow? You won't know. As has been said, there should be a disaster that makes it necessary, there will also be additional funds in this area. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that is why your questions, as they have been put here in the room, have been answered and your scepticism should be removed. Finally, I can only say: I would like to thank Mrs Foreign Minister, who, unfortunately, has already gone, and we will continue in the future to see that there is still such a good policy in the field of foreign policy as it has been in recent months. I can only say a warm thank you to the officials who have really sacrificed themselves that we have achieved such a good budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21120	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21147	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's good you're here anyway, Mrs. Schramböck. I hope you are a little more interested in integration than the Foreign Minister. I would like it to be 10 percent of its passion for foreign policy and also to ensure that the measures adopted are properly implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the integration budget, which is shortened: On my question in the Committee: Mrs Minister, what kind of plan do you have, how is this going to continue?, she has read to me exactly the same figures she has read to us here. So many value courses we have conducted and so many German courses. – And that's the Master Plan? We need a little more! Mr Haider, you said that only the recognised refugees will receive support. [[Abg. Haider: Financial, financial, precise!]] - Money, financial. But you already know that asylum seekers don't get financial support, right? You know that? At least you've found out about me now. They don't get anything, they've always been. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also did not understand the artificial excitement when Mr Leichtfried said that we need a position in the European Union. We can't always focus on the stronger. [[Abg. Gudenus: We show attitude! We're just showing our attitude!]] He called for solidarity within Europe. [[Abg. Gudenus: But not for fools! Sorry!]] Why? What kind of fools? – There is something like a - - – yes, with the strongest, with Mr Putin. [[Abg. Gudenus: We are showing our attitude! We're showing attitude!]] Do you know that Mr Putin is packing with Mr Erdoğan, have you already discussed this with him? [[Abg. Gudenus: No, we show attitude for Austria!]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Is it relatively meaty, who packs with who!]] - Okay, you don't know where you stand either. [[Call the FPÖ:Do you know that the French with the Trump...?]] I would definitely like more commitment, and that together. In fact, we should make a close of our shoulders in the matter of integration, then we would and will get it. People are here, people will stay here. You need our support. Unfortunately, this budget will not work.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21276	There are now no more words to be spoken on the sub-division of the outside. Therefore, the consultation on this subject has ended. [[19:10:43]] UG 13: Justice and reforms
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21297	We now come to the negotiation of division 13: Justice and reforms. Mr Jarolim is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21352	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Schramböck! In fact, the present judicial budget can only be referred to as a statement and not really as a budget that has really been prepared intellectually. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Smoking is an advantage!]] Today it was only necessary – and I hope that Mrs Griss may be able to report later on – to look at the demonstration of hundreds of people in the Palace of Justice. Everyone knows that the judges are anything but a particularly tiring, revolutionary people, but they have realized that with this budget, they have simply brought justice into the ground and ground and thus the greatest security threat that has been possible in this area for several legislative periods – and that, although you have told us all in the context of the election campaign, how much you stand for security. We can only say that this is an increase, and I also fully understand that, in view of this, a kind of psychosomatic blood poisoning has obviously occurred with the Federal Minister for Justice. [[Abg. Little: That's a premise!]] - That's not an injunction. You certainly weren't there, and that's why I think it's better, you don't say anything. That makes sense for many reasons. I believe that everyone in the judicial committee has experienced how the Minister of Justice – like the Vice-Cancellor – has advocated a day ahead of that, but please note that this situation is unacceptable and that in reality you are putting justice in a situation in which it is simply no longer capable of action. We now have the situation that in many areas the activities are no longer possible. There is a public prosecutor in Graz, where there are 16 prosecutors and one – one! - Officer, ladies and gentlemen. A law firm leader, Mrs. Minister, is responsible for doing the back office work for the prosecutors. Well, what are they doing, as well as the judges? – They are now doing the work that you should actually do in the firm, themselves. There you can imagine how crazyly modern, how great, how future-oriented it is to say to someone who deserves well: You don't get someone who deserves less from now on, and you'll make the whole crempel yourself! In view of this whole situation, in the budget – and I would ask you, Mrs Minister, that you comment on it – you have provided for a reduction of 42 people, which is a small unit. With prosecutors and judges minus 42 people! They're supposed to be replaced in a little bit. I ask you: Who? Mr Vice-Chancellor has tried and at least symbolically said: Yeah, we're gonna support this. – “Symbolically,” I say, because there are no positions to do so, so one can lubricate what has been promised good will here, but perhaps in ignorance of the fact that it is actually about what is involved. I would like to thank Mr Notares from FPÖ, because they have also contributed to bringing to Mr Vice-Chancellor what Mr Chancellor obviously does not understand and does not want to understand, namely that there is no security in this country if justice is not properly equipped. And we have this situation, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – Thank you very much. 216 law enforcement forces are deleted! These are the ones that are no longer available in the future. What you're doing here is saving your brain: The education and training budget, Ladies and gentlemen, 40 percent will be cut! These are all people working with the brain working with the head, and that for the land. I ask you: That's supposed to be the future? – That’s absolutely last-class! Next point: Digitalisation is reduced from 42 million euros to 29 million euros. The electronic act has been the big knüller. The big announcement was that we're going to be modern, and I don't know what we're doing. The analysis tools for large-scale criminal proceedings, ladies and gentlemen, are no longer coming. Great crime will therefore tell you: Thank you very much for the fact that the current inability – we have one of the worst facilities at the police across Europe – is also added. We can blossom in this country, we can do what we want here! – This is an increase of all Austrians. She should never take the word safety into her mouth again. [[Abg. Höbart: You've never been able to put that in your mouth!]] I can guarantee you: We will certainly not go down from this topic, and you will get your invoice presented yet. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21427	Mr Jarolim! To claim to fake a disease is already very close to the border. I ask you not to do this next time. [[Abg. Jarolim: I have all the feelings for the Minister, but not for how to deal with him!]] [[Abg. Höbart: SPÖ and security, that contradicts!]] We shall now come to the next speech. Mrs Steinacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21472	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House and those who should be again, that is, by acting in such a way that they can be appreciated again! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We have a judicial budget. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when it is a matter of managing certain reforms, of achieving a large budget target, there is not only a beautiful weather, but also a matter of looking at where one can actually work and organize resource-saving. Our judicial budget has not only been discussed in the House, the Committee and here in plenary, but of course - and we take note of this - and it is good if there is a participation - in the general public. First of all, the key data in a short time: The judicial budget is small, but fine – as a budget for an area with a great responsibility and responsibility –: It is about 1.58 billion euros for 2018, and for 2019 it is 1.6 billion euros. This is only 2 percent of the total budget of this Republic, 2 percent with great effect and to fulfil a major task. And this is well aware of all those who are responsible for this budget – the Minister, the employees and colleagues in the house and also us. The area of justice has been upgraded, of which one has to be aware if comparisons are made. It has gained both the reforms and the deregulation as well as the constitutional service, the data protection agents and the Federal Administrative Court. One too one is not this budget with the previous one. ==References== One thing, however, has remained the same: the objectives of action we all feel committed to in the judicial system with this budget, and these must also be demanded and respected. These include, for example, the guarantee of legal certainty and legal peace and also the peace of speech, Mr Jarolim. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim]] It is about ensuring access to justice and ensuring the orderly enforcement and enforcement of law. These are objective, fair, independent procedures which must be conducted and should also be conducted in an appropriate manner. It is also about a modern constitution, about reforms and debureaucratisation. I am very glad, ladies and gentlemen, that last week – and everyone who is here in the hall, and everyone who has an APA access, and everyone who can read the paper, and anyone who can read it, were able to follow it – appropriate clarifications were made by our Finance Minister, Löger and our Minister of Justice, Moser. It has been made clear – and I can now also say this in the direction of Mr Jarolim, who is again instigating fears which are not entitled to do so, quite clearly and this time read out: “It has been agreed that the budget will cover the basic needs of the judicial community. For additional costs arising from independent case law and project-related costs, the agreement was reached that reserves can be resolved in accordance with the budgetary provisions. [...] No judicial body will be saved and legal practitioners will be admitted to court practice in the future, as before.” More than that a Minister of Justice and a Minister of Finance jointly say what matters and how these budget figures can be read, one really cannot demand. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Yes, there are tips, there are accidents at work that cannot be controlled – we all know – whether in a company, in an administrative authority or in a court, clearly, you have to take care of it. There are, of course, the asylum procedures which are still being carried out in large numbers, there is the transfer of the authorities to the new system of adult protection law, but at some point these tasks are also done, and then there is no need for labour. Therefore, I would ask and ask the judges, the prosecutors, the judicial officers and their organized representation from this body to take the best possible part in the use of resources. This is a judicial policy, as I imagine it, and that is the way I believe that everyone can work together – for the benefit of Austria, for the benefit of a judicial policy that ensures that justice can work safely and that everyone makes its contribution to that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21549	Mrs Griss has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21570	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to add something to what Mr Jarolim said: These savings – and they are savings and cuts – not only endanger security, but also endanger the rule of law. They shake confidence in the state! [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] The judges are anything but alarmist, and the judges are also doing resource-saving. They try to do everything possible, even with small resources. I've been in justice for more than 30 years, I can assure you: Everyone is trying to make the most of it. I have always wondered – and this was also a matter of my conversation with the President of the Court of Auditors when I became President of the OGH – that the judges, who deserve more than the law firm staff, have to do everything themselves and that, therefore, more judges are needed so that work can be done while the law firm staff are always restricted. This is completely inefficient, completely unreasonable. The President of the Court of Auditors absolutely understood this at the time. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] Why is the rule of law at risk? – Because the rule of law builds on confidence in a functioning judicial system, and this trust has been shaken. [[Abg. Steinacker: Why should it no longer work? No judge will be saved!]] Mrs Steinacker! If it is no longer certain that judges will be represented when they go to Karenz, then the proceedings will be much longer than these posts, and this will no longer be occupied. [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] [[Recent calls at the ÖVP: Who says that? Where's that?]] Explain to me how this is to happen now, since it has been said, one will cover this from the reserves! [[Abg. Rädler: Re-help!]] [[Abg. Rädler: You'll get some help then!]] These deposits, that's not money that lies in the ministry, that's not like a company where someone has saved something, and then he has the money there and can use it for it. [[Abg. Steinacker: We know that, but...!]] [[New call of the abg. Steinacker.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Please inform yourself in advance, Mrs Steinacker!]] These are non-utilised budget items, which have not yet become budget-effective, which have not become deficit-effective. They have not yet been financed. [[Abg. Steinacker: But the Minister of Finance has said that...!]] - But that won't be enough! What bothers me most is this uncertainty that has led to it. The uncertainty was caused by the Minister of Justice. First it was said that the Adult Protection Act goes with 1. Not July – that is, the abuses in the field of property management continue to exist. Then it was called, no, it's going to go. Then it was said that we can no longer guarantee these representations. Then it was said that the legal practitioners can no longer be included. This is a permanent uncertainty, and this will damage confidence in the rule of law, in the judicial system – and that is what you have to represent. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] And all this – and most of all it bothers me – against the background of the highest court fees in Europe! Justice, jurisdiction takes 1.2 billion euros in fees and costs 1 billion. Explain to someone who has a trial in court, i.e. a fee payer: Unfortunately, it can't be done as quickly as we don't have money. They pay more than the procedure costs, but – it's like that – that goes into the budget. – Explain that! I'm afraid you won't find too much understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21722	Mr Stefan has now been reported to speak. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21743	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! If one has now listened to the speakers of the opposition parties, then one actually believes that justice is now no longer functioning. And that, I have to say, is in fact much more problematic than the whole discussion about whether we will have more or less financial possibilities in the future, because this is really uncertain to the population. I think it is also irresponsible that you stand out here and act like the judicial system doesn't work anymore. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Yeah, it's right that we have very high court fees. We belong in Europe, if not worldwide, to those countries that have the highest court fees per capita. We have always criticised this from this point of view, and we have also been involved in the government negotiations and have therefore made clear statements about it in the government programme, and these will be implemented - I assume - and they will ultimately also be reflected in the budget figures in the outlook from 2020 onwards. These flat increases in revenue are due to the fact that we save on court fees. If you, Mrs Griss, say that the individual citizen cannot understand that his procedure is not carried out because he pays more than it costs, then you also have to say – and I suppose you know better – that in reality the revenue comes from the basic book entry fees. These account for 70 percent of the revenue, not the payments for the procedures themselves. But I'm right, we have to work on it, it's important that we also reduce court fees, both the very high fees, because they may cause procedures to leave Austria at all, as well as the low fees that lead to people not finding access to the law. I'll give you all right. But this too is already foreseen in the government programme, and we will ensure that that is exactly what is happening. Yes, justice has great challenges to face, that is true. It will be the Adult Protection Act from 1. July 2018 will enter into force; this will bind planning positions, i.e. judges. However, the figures mentioned also go far apart. It has been claimed that it will bind 70 judges; on the other hand, the Ministry of Justice assumes that it will be about 13 at the beginning, because it does not require the verification of every case-law. We have the security package, the intensification of criminal law, which is about violent and sexual offences, which may or may lead to more convictions, which is perfectly correct. And we have the subject of criminal law enforcement, which has been chronically undercut over the last few years and where more and more outrages are happening against the judicial guards, but we must do something about it. This is why there is also an increase of 100 additional judicial guards – a very important step so that the work can be carried out properly and that the security of the judicial guards is ensured – and their equipment is also improved. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] All of these are the results of this government. And for safety's sake: Security is a matter of major importance, and security is also an essential issue when it comes to the proper execution of the sentence. Yes, it is, of course, painful to calculate very sharply in the field of justice. That's completely right, and I also understand that staff representatives are demonstrating or ever- if necessary, hold events and indicate that it will become very close for them. We will also observe this closely, and if it is really the case that there are bottlenecks and procedures will be extended, then this government will certainly respond. However, it is possible, at present, to carry out the procedures. Justice is by no means in any danger; the rule of law is not in danger. I therefore ask all those who have formulated this in such an irrational way – in order not to say, hysterically – to take it back and say it clearly, it is calculated in such a way – that is right – but the rule of law, the judicial system continues to work. We have made it our aim to maintain the quality of the case law and the enforcement of the sentence with the minimum effort, and that is precisely what this budget implements.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21803	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The next item is the speech by Mr Noll. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21828	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, it's not that the opposition here would paint the horror of the dead justice on the wall. Today, the protest assembly of judges and prosecutors took place in the Palace of Justice. The words ‘justice is divided to death’ or ‘law in danger’ are not from the opposition, but from those directly affected. Clearly today, the president of the prosecutors Cornelia Koller also warned that if one does not get the five already promised offices for hatred on the network in the prosecutor's office, the subject can no longer be pursued by the prosecutor's office and threatens the overall persecution of the famous bottleneck. Trade union Haider of the judicial association has said that if it comes as it has been decided, the judicial system will no longer be able to deliver its services. These are not the mischievous or bad words of the opposition, but these are the words of those concerned. I mean, the majority groups would be well advised to listen to them. I have been exercising my profession in justice for 25 years and I do not see a single train leading to the achievement of the objectives announced there in all promises of the judicial programme or of what is relevant in the government programme. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Let's take three. Examples: The government programme is talking about shortening the duration of the procedure. But what do we find in the objectives of the budget? – Austria is currently behind during the period of proceedings for disputed divorces. What is the target for 2020 after the Federal Estimate? – We are supposed to fall to tenth place in international comparison. On the question to the Minister of Justice, how can that be, he said: Well, all the other countries are strict, but we don't have the money for that. [[Call the SPÖ: Unbelievable!]] So a greater defeat in this respect can hardly be imagined by the government. Other example: The government programme speaks of further digitisation of justice. What do we have as a target for 2017 in electronic execution applications? – 91 percent. What's there for 2020? – You will wonder: 76 percent, a decrease by 15 percentage points. On the question to Minister of Justice, Moser, how can that be, he pulls the axles and answers me: We are not equipped enough, and we need to save justice. Third and, in fact, most scandalous point in this matter: There is a pre-announcement in the budget's impact analysis of how often the Republic of Austria will be condemned by the EGMR. In comparison with 2017 we now have a target for 2020, which brings Austria more convictions than we have taken into consideration for 2017. To my question, how can one imagine Austria being condemned more often than now, the Minister answers: Well, so many cases aren't. I was skeptical of whether the FPÖ and the ÖVP can bring about the change in justice. In the meantime, I've been taught a better person. “Iudex non calculat.” – The judge does not calculate. Meanwhile, the judges had to calculate that twelve police horses cost as much as 36 prosecutors. [[call to the FPÖ.]] You should also do your calculation tasks.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21876	Mrs Schramböck has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21898	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Today I can represent my colleague Josef Moser in the House, who is already on the path of improvement after his hospital stay and will resume his duties next week. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me say at the outset that the Austrian Federal Government acknowledges the need to reform and develop the Austrian state, its structures, its responsibilities and its financing responsibility. The Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice is also the main priorities of economical, but also efficient, citizen-oriented and, above all, service-oriented action. Against this background, a budget could be drawn up for the years 2018 and 2019 to meet the essential needs while maintaining legal certainty and the rule of law. Let me briefly address the main points of the budget of the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice: There will be no reduction in the judicial and prosecutorial sphere. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] This is particularly true in connection with the adoption of the Adult Protection Act with 1. July 2018 and the resulting new tasks to be assigned to the judiciary are a special concern for Minister Moser. It must also be stressed that the Austrian judicial system will, of course, continue to comply with its legal obligations and that legal practitioners will be accepted, as has been the custom. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] In the area of security in our country, which is particularly important for security in the field of justice - it has already been addressed - it has been achieved that there is no return of 75 planning posts. At the same time, 100 new training plans are planned for the judicial service. This leads to the recording of new Executive staff can be already predictive and seamless re-occurrence of planning sites is allowed. In addition, the personnel plan for 2018 also provides for five additional planning points for the data protection authority in order to ensure a smooth implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. However, all these measures also require financial savings, which will result mainly from efficiency improvements and, inter alia, from the limitation of construction measures, the reduction of rental payments and a reduction in the cost of temporary workers. As a result, the budget of the Federal Ministry of Constitution, Reforms, Deregulation and Justice for the years 2018 and 2019 will ensure legal certainty and rule of law. It will be possible to implement essential reform projects necessary for our country, and this will do the best possible for the department and the ministry together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21967	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. The next item is the report by Mr Gerstl. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e21991	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for representing the Minister of Justice! You, I believe, have made a good deal of sense in the great chapter on justice, so that we can now also turn to the chapter Constitution, Constitutional Reform and Deregulation. It is not enough for the opposition to criticize the government, for this it is important that we all work together here in the House, because our Constitution of 1920 is a blockade constitution. This means that the institutions have to control each other and always agree on each other in order to make reforms possible. That is why I think it is very important that we bring expenditure responsibility and revenue responsibility into hand. It is necessary to separate the tasks and no longer to merge them. Ladies and gentlemen! The abolition of Article 12 of the Federal Constitution is one of the first measures we must take. It makes no sense for us to adopt a principle law here and also to adopt a implementing law for nine days of land. It is necessary to stop with this nonsense, which is only more understandable from the history of the First World War, from the mistrust that people have had among themselves, and from the distrust of the institutions among themselves. Today, there is a new style to have – a new style that means having confidence in each other and self-reliance. We need this new style and this new self-reliance. Saving in the system means shattering the constitution, deregulating it and giving people the opportunity to get more out for themselves and not give it to the system. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is therefore important to unbundle the Austrian Constitution, to carry out a clear division of tasks and tasks, to abolish the principle legislation with nine implementing legislations and to bring together the responsibility for expenditure and revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22030	Thank you. The next item is the speech by Mrs Becher. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22054	Ladies and gentlemen. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned today and the importance has been stressed that the rule of law costs something. I am also saying this because the dispute over the judicial budget has been publicly carried out by this government, which does not raise the confidence of the people, as well as the evasions about the Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As public as it was and as the judges have also pointed out, the government is not seeking to equip justice and justice, despite the best economic situation, with the necessary resources. It should actually be clear: Whoever speaks of more police, police intervention, who uses a working group to strengthen criminal law, must also provide the necessary capacities in the judicial institutions. The judicial guards don't have a big lobby, they don't see it on the street, they're less perceived, they're doing just as good work as the courts and executives. Prisons also have to work very well due to our high standards, otherwise, on the one hand, the rule of law remains on the track or they are not places of resocialization, as we imagine it and as it is in the interests of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have a total of just over 9,200 prisoners. Today it has already been said that 100 people are in training, but 200 are not employed. The 100 who are in training cannot really fill that up. If it no longer happens, there will be major problems in the medium term. The Josefstadt alone is overlaid with more than 200 prisoners, designed for about 1,000 prisoners and occupied with more than 200. There are attacks there, that has already been said today. What does the government do about this? - Actually, nothing. The required vests are not provided, the responsibility for getting more personnel is pushed from one to the other. Justice is essentially self-financing, i.e. more than 111 percent of the court fees, which has already been said. Justice must recover its money so that the rule of law can continue to function properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22103	Mr Lausch has now been reported on the floor. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22125	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate High House! Dear colleague Ruth Becher, when you stand here and replicate regarding the judicial guard that has come under the wheels in recent years – under the Chancellorship of SPÖ – and you don't have a single planning point - - – who was chancellor? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] The Chancellorship was in SPÖ's hand, you put the head of government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Operation You continue child-moving, that's your thing, as you lose credibility in the population! [[Abg. Jarolim: You have no idea what you say!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] Mrs Becher, you are here and you are simply making allegations by saying that the Josefstadt is overcrowded with 200 people. Please, this has been the case in the Josefstadt for the last 20 years, and there you, I believe, have been in the re gional and have done nothing against it. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Mr. Brandstetter you have to say that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] There was also a Federal Minister Berger, who did nothing against this overburden. I'm coming back to the budget now: The budget, as our judge has already mentioned, has been calculated in some areas. I am also right, Mr Becher, that we have created 175 planning posts in four months of government participation, you have not managed to do so in ten years, no more. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interconnected calls for vessels, Jarolim and Vogl.]] I would be able to stand here and criticize a four-month government work. [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Kuntzl.]] But let's get back to the subject: It has been created 175 sites, and that is a good thing. There are about 300 to 400 judicial guards in Austria, which is of course still to be compensated, but we are on a good path at 175 in four months. You criticize everything here, but you have, and that's why you were also chosen, while your government participation only fails. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stäger: We were elected?]] You just have to take note of this and tell the population as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] But the population knows this anyway. They stand here and do so so that one could almost assume that the SPÖ had not been the chancellor in this country in the last 30 years. [[Abg. Plessl: That's not true!]] [[Call the SPÖ:30 years?]] It's all incredible, but be it as it may be. It is a lot to do in the field of justice, much is done with this budget. Of course, there has also been some provision in the government agreement, which is known. There are some judicial institutions that have come over the years to renovate, renew. You have to do this, you have to let that go into the next budgets. From this point of view, I also wish the Federal Minister good recovery. I think we're on a right, good path. Of course, it's not all gold, we know that's what the members of the government have admitted here. [[Abg. Vogl: Go, go, go!]] But you stand here and just pretend to have had nothing to do with justice in recent years and actually always knew everything. Now you are telling here that you knew, but your party, colleague Becher, has done little to nothing. [[Abg. Keck: What is this announcement?]] It sounds a bit funny to me if you put yourself here and now you have the good solutions you haven't implemented for ten years. I really have to say that. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] This should not be done if the budget is critically criticized. I do not think it is necessary for you to put things on the tape, in which you have looked away for decades, for decades, and just let it happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] They have imposed a custodial execution on the judicial guard. You tried to use funds for something that was not helpful to the judicial guard in dealing with the security tasks because you spent the money differently. That was decided in your Chancellorship. [[Abg. Duzar: The message has arrived, it fits!]] I know that ÖVP has often put the Minister of Justice, but also you with Federal Minister Berger. I can tell you, I was active in Josefstadt at the time and nothing happened. Nothing happened, nothing of all you're telling me here. In this sense, I still wish everything good. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Goodbye!]] I don't think that's a bad budget. Of course, it could always be a little more. In this sense, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22338	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is the report by Mr De Vries. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22363	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Jarolim: Harald, can you correct that? That's so many wrong things!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is your own definition!]] For the first budget of the Black and Blue Federal Government, I can only say for the chapter Justice: more than being. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Mr Hammer and Mr Rädler.]] Today, a protest assembly took place a few hundred meters away from here, in the Palace of Justice. Judges, prosecutors, law firms, and judicial staff defend themselves against the massive cuts, and those who are concerned do not speak out, their slogans are “righteous state in danger”, “justice is cut to death”. These ladies and gentlemen are not saying so. I can only say to the Deputy Chancellor, who is also responsible for the public service, a functioning public service, if not. Vice-Chancellor Strache should not be responsible for a saved rule of law, that cannot be the task. On the specific figures: 42 stations for judges and prosecutors are deleted, 216 offices for law firms are deleted, and there are massive cuts in digitization. That is to say, the bourgeois electronic act has been postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerleins day. In continuing education and training – extremely important for the rightful top officials –: Reduction by 40 percent. What does the vice chancellor say about this? What does the Federal Chancellor say about this? What does the Minister of Justice say about this? – The situation is very, very serious, and our judge has also talked about the destruction of Austrian justice. The entire federal government has turned off these cuts – off-line like Chinese court mandarins. That's too little for me, and that's too little for those involved in justice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This government is relying on measures to ensure that the legal proceedings due to the cuts continue to be even longer. Victim is the Austrian citizen, who sometimes needs the rule of law to come to his right. The luckless Minister of Justice, who, although aware of the problems and was cautiously supported by the Vice-President in order to renegotiate with the Minister of Finance, was left in the rain. [[Abg. Jarolim: Federal Chancellor!]] Justice has already had to make savings under an ÖVP Finance Minister and an ÖVP Justice Minister. This is also said here: It was ÖVP Minister! But then the savings were milder than now under the turquoise course. There is more work for the police, there is also more work for the judicial community. In my opinion, the attitudes in the police sector are all right. But there is no additional new prosecutor. In the election season Your big issue of security, now in the government, has not been much left of it. Now this government plays massively with our security with the cuts in the field of justice. The situation in the judicial institutions is bad. There are more and more troublesome prisoners. [[Abg. Gudenus: Where do they come from? You brought them in since 2015! These are your friends!]] There is an increase in violence. Heavy aggressions against the judiciary are on the rise. These savings will not help to solve the major problems in judicial institutions. On the contrary! The Federal Minister for Public Service shows little understanding of the difficult situation of the judicial guard, a judicial guard serving the Austrian state on a daily basis, sometimes in the event of major risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22457	Mrs Jachs has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22479	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the outset, on behalf of my group, I would like to send the best requests for recovery to our Minister for Justice Josef Moser. He is already on the path of improvement and we are all happy when he will soon be back to visit this house. [[It is a pleasure for ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as for SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Let me now hold on to the basics: There is nothing more unsocial than debt for decades. I am very grateful to our Finance Minister, Löger, on behalf of the youth, for putting an end to this debt policy. I am particularly pleased, as a young Member, to be able to take part in this budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It was not until this morning that I read a comment in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” that challenged the court practice again, and also colleagues who are not yet back in the hall I wanted to clarify, because he asked this morning the question whether we would not delete the trial. That's just panic. I don't think so. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... was already planned!]] The fact is that the number of legal practitioners has increased. In 2017, it was an average of 746 trainees, at the beginning of this year already 889, and in March 2018 alone it was already 976. It is clear to all of us that this leads to an additional burden that, as we have already heard today, will be covered by reserves. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] So I would like to say that even in the future, as before, Jus graduates will be admitted to court practice. The OLG Presidents have already completed the colportated recording stop and informed the interested graduates about it. The legal youth is prepared for practice during court practice. As a lawyer, I know what that means. At the university, the theory is often different, so the court practice is an important institution. I trust to claim that the Austrian lawyer's research is very good. As a legislative body, it must be particularly important for us not to let the excellent young people draw. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The court practice has been open to graduates for more than 150 years. That will also be so in the future, despite all speculations!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22539	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22564	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! For good reason, in 2017, then Minister Brandstetter and then State Secretary Muna Duzdar agreed that there should be five additional posts in the field of prosecutors for the east of Austria with the special focus on pursuing hate crimes and cybermobbing. We all now see that on social media, in part, all the dams break – a current example is the forced outing of Conchita Wurst – when it comes to people being horrified, others evaporating and overcoming. This dam break, combined with the last novel of the Criminal Code, for example, concerning § 283, according to which the protected group is extended before hetification, inevitably leads to the need for more staff in the field of law enforcement. This is not provided for in this budget, and therefore it is a once-in-a-life gravelight instead of a lighthouse.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22594	The next item is the speech by Mr Fürlinger. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22615	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Like Mrs Griss, I believe that the issue of justice and justice budget is not suitable for scandalisation and uncertainty. We have held the debate here in detail, which could be the author's theory. Authors are sometimes those, Mr. Jarolim, who are talking here about any public prosecutor's departments who are supposed to have only one employee for 16 prosecutors. In fact, it's at that point 23. – If I handle such numbers, I must of course not be surprised if at the end of the day a few people have questions in their eyes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, it says: ‘Iudex non-calculate’, but the lawyer should occasionally be familiar with the numbers he uses. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jarolim.]] No, no, my colleague, you used it. Wherever you have your numbers, you also do well as a Member of Parliament to examine them before you use them unverified here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] What you and your group are doing here is scandalizing the inability of justice to act, which is completely wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] Mr Jarolim, we are here in Parliament and not in a sector of a football stadium! Austrian justice works well and hard. The work of the judiciary has quality, a quality that could not harm your interlocutors, Mr Jarolim. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] I have been working in justice for 20 years, my colleague, and I can tell you one thing: I think the development of justice over the last 20 years has been wonderful. This is really good, both in terms of quality in training and in terms of personnel resources. We have a highly qualified and diligent courtship. We can be proud of this justice, and we do not need to talk it down. As we are proud of this justice, which has the task of the case law which is responsible for the creation of legal certainty, but also for training – as Mr Jahs has correctly pointed out – of our young, good legal talents, which we need in all areas of the state, but also in the economy, we are going to, Ladies and gentlemen, every foot goes and every step is taken to preserve the quality of this justice. You can rely on that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22697	Mr Fichtinger is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22718	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! In summary, the following things must be taken into account in the area of justice: After the end of the budgetary negotiations, there is a public debate between the competent Federal Minister and the Federal Minister for Finance for budgetary adjustment. The vice chancellor is interfering, the result is a highly questionable one from our point of view. [[Call the ÖVP:Kern...!]] The judges and prosecutors rise to the barricades. There are protests, planning stations are shortened or not re-occupied. The court fears the creation of a bottleneck and a stage of proceedings. Non-judicial staff are saved and judges are to take over these tasks themselves. Procedural delays will be the result. In the field of justice, the Federal Minister himself has granted this to the committee, 225 planning posts are not occupied. This is to be met, among other things, with an extension of the tests - I quote - which should increase the quota of those recorded from ten to 22,5 by making the test at the judicial guard better illustrated as a job offer than compared to the police and the federal army. Ladies and gentlemen, if you consider the judicial budget to be such, I can give you one point: Justice works well, but not because of your budgeting, but despite your budgeting. In this case, the sentence: They save in the system, but to the detriment of people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Gerstl, if you would like to discuss constitutional reforms in this form, then we would be happy to be ready to talk, but the 1934 Constitution will not be there again, even if it were to be in line with the wishes of the EIA.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22783	I now have no more words on the division of justice and reform. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. [[20:02:32]] UG 11: Internals UG 18: Asylum/Migration
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22819	Finally, we reach the consultation of Divisions 11: Inside and 18: Asylum/Migration. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mrs Lueger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22844	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying that in 2018 we will receive more money in the interior resort by 120 million euros and will also receive more money in 2019 by 130 million euros. In other words, there is additional money in the interior area of a total of 2.8 billion euros. I would also be very pleased if this money finally arrived at the police who are doing excellent work and, of course, only thanks for it – at least part of this almost 3 billion euros. In the Council of Ministers' Protocol of February you have written that you would like to create 2 100 additional posts for police officers, which you will create by 2022, but also 2 000 training posts. If this is calculated for 2018 and 2019, this is about 525 per year for the additional planning posts and 500 per year for the training plans. For me, the question now arises – you have just launched an offensive, so that we can recruit new police officers –: How many of these recruits eventually remain and do the training, remain in the entire training and are then also taken over in the police service? It's exciting for me: When comparing the budget report with the subgroups with what the budget service does, the figures are nowhere in agreement. Not even if one considers that this time inside has been separated from asylum and migration. Even if I take these figures into account, I do not come to those numbers. Nevertheless, I ask the following questions: If young police officers are to be recruited, is the Siak also thinking of an increase in the number of teachers? Is there enough space to train these young people? In case you don't have so many to report, what's Plan B? What we have discussed in the committee is that police officers in the field service – of course I think this is very positive, especially in view of the fact that the young soldier, who has stood before the message, had a vested vest, thanks to God – will receive 24 000 pieces of ballistic gilts, which are to be both ground-proof and firearms-proof. However, their delivery will take place in three tranches, and this will only start at the end of 2018. It would be nice if it were already available during the EU Presidency. There are quite a lot of expenses to be expected, also an increased effort for the police. Of course, police officers have to carry out their duties there, but if the guard vests only arrive at the end of 2018, that is a long time to come. Bodycams are also advertised, but in the first tranche 2018 there should be only 140 pieces. At the planning points, I have been guided by the figures of the federal proposal, which contains a total of 653 new planning posts. Of these, 250 are for cross-border authorities. the allocations of services and selected absences, 250 for the border area and 153 for the fight against extremism and anti-state radicalisation. 288 officials are to be added to the closure of security gaps in the administration, which we will certainly be able to discuss on Friday. They want border controls to continue, but even the police don't want them to continue and the city police officers are being increased with staff. You have to look at what the individual PIs look like with the renovation. There is a lot to do, and I think that this 900 000 euros you have planned for the horses could be used much more meaningfully and directly with the police.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22905	Mr Jenewein is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e22926	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! I think it is now also time to thank a minister who has really managed to provide this Ministry of Security with sufficient resources. We have just heard it from the previous speaker, there is an increase of 122 million euros, the total budget will amount to 2.84 billion euros. This is necessary in so far as it is necessary, since in the past there has not always been as optimal work as you should have worked. This is certainly also due to the power found on the opposition bank today, because we know from the past that security policy is not necessarily up-to-date at SPÖ and that security policy at SPÖ is not too high a priority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Duzdar and Mr Greiner.]] I can only remind you of the year 2015, in which you showed what the SPÖ security policy in Austria means. [[New call of the abg. Duzdar.]] It also shows that politics is being made with the right priority, because the security budget is also the policy of a politician of a department cast into figures. That is why we see how the priorities are set. We see that the National Police Councils have a plus of 58.2 million euros, the EKO Cobra has a plus of 3.8 million euros and the Federal Criminal Office a plus of 5 million euros. That is to say, the priorities are set correctly. There is an increase in planning sites in the area of executives, something that the Freedom Party has called for for for for years, but you have resisted from the SPÖ for years, since you felt that this was not necessary at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] All of this fits very well in your form of politics, in which you actually go in the direction that you best release criminals from prison in good time, it is best not to lock them in, it is best not to pursue them at all. This is your policy that you have pursued for years, and this policy has been rejected in the election, and this policy has been chosen. You just have to take note of that. I know it's difficult for you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second part to be discussed here today is that area of asylum and migration, where, in accordance with freedom of movement, there is also a reduction in financial resources; first, because it is thanks to God that there is also less immigration under the cover of asylum to Austria, and secondly, that the Federal Government has known itself to finally carry out returns and on the other hand to implement accelerated procedures so that there will be a lower financial need in the future. I would also like to thank Minister Kickl for the fact that the new foreign law law is now finally on the way, which will also help criminal asylum seekers to get directly pushed from the prison. This is also clearly demonstrated freedom of movement, as we have called for, how you have prevented it for years and where simply there was no progress with the SPÖ. [[Abg. Noll: On the matter!]] In the same way, we have said that if someone becomes a criminal offence, he has a permanent ban on entry into Austria, and those asylum seekers who believe that they can return to their home country on vacation will lose their asylum status in the final effect, which will be recognized. In summary, you can say: This Federal Government sets new priorities in the area of security policy. It sets new priorities in the area of police. It sets new priorities in the area of asylum and migration, and it is good that this federal government should set these new priorities, because if we had continued on the path that you have taken in recent years, we would have moved slowly, but surely towards the socio-political abyss. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar]] No one wants that in this house. Perhaps they wanted it, that may be, the majority in this House does not want it. It is good that it happens, and I also expressly thank Federal Minister Kickl for taking over the responsibility and not only from the second or third series gives any positive opinions of itself and calls in between. [[Abg. Loacker: You should thank Kickl!]] It would have been reasonable if you had shown in recent years how to make proper security policy in that country. [[Mr Knes and Mr Loacker.]] But you didn't. On the contrary! They have made sure that we have a security emergency, and this federal government is now making sure that this security emergency is corrected and that we are going into a good future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23025	Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23047	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Horses or prosecutors, what is more central to our rule of law and security in this country – run police in Vienna or a powerful investigative authority in the fight against crime? I have to ride around on this example, because it is around 900 000 euros for the trial operation of the police cavalry in Vienna, and the judge association has already predicted that we will take up 36 prosecutors for this cockeyed project of the twelve horses. [[Abg. Rosary: A great word-wit, haha!]] This example fits into the big picture. [[Abg. Rosary: I did not know at all that the Federal Minister has prosecutors!]] Security is one of the basic needs of our people. A federal government that does not pursue a serious security policy is to be strongly criticised, as is a Bun-de-Government, which is making a security policy with scams and putting this dangerous, unilateral operation and this symbol policy into a budget. You will do this with your populist focus on strengthening the executive by giving the Ministry of the Interior the budget for an increase of about 4,000 planned places by 2022, but at the current judicial level save, with a minus of 450 judges, prosecutors and law firms up to 2022. [[Abg. Rosenkranz: The Minister of the Interior should do something at the Justice!]] Police, whether driving or walking, can sell themselves better than judges and prosecutors, and so much so the executive discharge needs, so much does Austria need a functioning rule of law. With your populist symbol policy, you only create a bottleneck at the executive. This is not a overall security policy concept. This is a marketing gag in which I recognise you, Minister of the Interior, in the role of the FPÖ Secretary-General. We NEOS are for more staff in executive, eight million overtime a year are too much! We are also in favour of de-bureaucratisation of the day-to-day work of our police officers and for better equipment – we agree – but this must not be implemented on such a unilateral basis by the rule of law without a corresponding strengthening of justice. In the area of asylum and migration, I do not know where to start. An example: They reduce the expenditure on basic supply from EUR 670 million in 2017 to EUR 245 million in 2019. That's a 63 percent reduction. Yes, fewer people come to Austria, but according to asylum statistics for 2018 not by so much less, but just by a third less. How's that going? We have already discussed in the Committee that you indicate within the scope of the impact objectives that people just stay shorter in basic care because the procedures are being accelerated. Well, you increase the budget at the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, which is welcome again, but at the moment the first instance is like a lottery machine, there is a lifting rate of 42 percent. Minister of the Interior, Speed is not all the quality of the procedure. When it comes to the rule of law, the foreign exchange speed kills, in the truest sense of the word, apply to a lifting ratio of 42 percent in the azylical procedure. They therefore de facto outsource the work to the Federal Administrative Court. There, the judges are overburdened with complaints, and the duration of the proceedings goes into length, and 40 planning points are now being deleted. This is an irresponsible budget shift from justice to executive and creates an extreme bottleneck. The asylum seekers will then be stuck in this while waiting for their two-in-a-kind decision, and they will remain in the basic care. The proposed reduction in basic supply costs is therefore not to be kept. It remains a milkmaid bill that is wrong, for security in this country no merit and an attack on the rule of law. Therefore, unfortunately, I have to close with my beloved quote by Karl Valentin: “Lower with the mind – live the stupid!”
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23110	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23131	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to replicate Mr Feichtinger, because I am quite surprised that he, as a People's Party, has shown us sympathy with the Constitution from 1934. [[Abg. Jarolim: Blockade Constitution!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Noll: Blockade Constitution!]] First of all, Dr. Feichtinger, unfortunately, this is reflected in several statements from your group, which are already evidence of a lack of historical awareness. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, Mr Noll and Mr Kuntzl.]] Firstly, I know a Constitution from 1920, not from 1934 in the form. By the way, we have no sympathy for the process of 1934, which I would like to tell you in all clarity. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: The Constitution of 1934 is not known to you?! Learn history!]] But it comes up in as similar statements as we would now be a leader party. – That also testifies to, I tell you, lack of historical awareness. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: If you do not know a Constitution from 1934, why do you replicate it?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Secondly, If an essential leader from your group, Dr. Feichtinger, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, is called two people, then this is exactly the degradation of the political competitor against whom you have always been credible. Unfortunately. She's not doing this anymore. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To the budget in the Federal Finance Act 2018 and 2019 in the UG 11: Internal: I could already say this in the committee, because there is Easter and Christmas at the same time, because it is indeed a gratifying budget. The Federal Government is speaking here. We have said that there must be two areas where there is no need to save, that is precisely in the field of internal security and that is in the field of education and research. It is gratifying that the budget is being raised properly. It is equally gratifying that we get more police officers that we get more training places. It is then already significant: Mrs. Lueger, as a security spokesperson for social democracy, has listed what will come in the foreseeable future: Protective vests, helmets, long weapons, mobile phones, iPads for police inspections, and then the only criticism is that this is not already coming in May, but only in October – well, I would say, with this criticism we can live very well, ladies and gentlemen, that is all right. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Security is our concern. I assume that it is a great asset and an important concern to all parties in the House. We are one of the safest countries in the world, and I think that this policy, cast into figures, is also sufficiently documented documented under the Federal Finance Act for the years 2018 and 2019. Mr Federal Minister, I congratulate you on this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23250	Mrs Zadić has now been reported to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23268	Madam President. Dear Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators! Mr. Interior Minister, you spoke on the 8th of December when you took over your predecessor's official business, about the fact that it is one of your main concerns to significantly increase the subjective sense of security of the population. In a subsequent interview, you told the ORF that the security situation in Austria is very good, but there is a problem when it comes to the subjective security of the population. I therefore assume that you see it as one of your most central tasks to strengthen this sense of security, so that we are not only sure, but above all, feel secure. With this rhetoric you have been provided for the area of security for the interior resort of EUR 2.8 billion. They are even talking about the largest security budget in the Second Republic. That is why I have also allowed myself to see exactly what impact you are pursuing with this budget. Let us look at the subjective sense of security that you have made the most important concern and which you want to strengthen! [[Abg. Höbart: Of course, yes!]] At the largest security budget of the Second Republic, we will also be able to expect you to plan great things. However, when looking closely at your goals for action, it is noted that these objectives are not only very unambitionable, they are also simply unworthy of the largest security budget of the Second Republic. This surprises you especially when you look at the key figures of the subjective sense of security, your main concern. They did not even find it worth setting these goals further than in the previous year. [[Abg. Höbart: The speech has the Peter Pilz written?]] On the contrary! Last year, according to the key figures, the subjective sense of security was even higher than what you are planning for 2018 and 2019. Clearly, we strive for a value higher than 2015. 2015 was also a very turbulent year. But in comparison to 2016 and also in a longer-term comparison – I have looked at the figures since 2011 – you do not intend to strengthen the security feeling, the subjective sense of security, but on the contrary: Their target is lower than the actual values of last year. [[Abg. Rosary: It is also better to strengthen objective security! We're not at a feeling debate!]] – Perfectly correct, Mr Rosenkranz, we are not at a emotional debate. The Minister of the Interior also said at the beginning, at the beginning of his speech, that the security situation in Austria was very good, but the subjective feeling is not, and we must strengthen it. [[Abg. Rosary: And what? By objective security!]] And I want to show you that the Minister of the Interior does not strengthen this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I have to tell you, I don't understand. With this supposedly largest security budget of the Second Republic, it would simply have to be more inside. But maybe you also pursue very different goals. Perhaps your goal is to further lower the subjective sense of security with targeted populism in order to prepare the feeding ground for further election of your party. [[Abg. Wheeler: Catastrophe!]] Or are your goals deliberately so low so that you can reach them in the end? Both options don't speak for you. [[Abg. Deimek: There's another way you don't even know, which you don't think is possible at all!]] Let me say a few more words on the Federal proposal for asylum and migration! In 2018, around 300 million euros are planned for basic supply and 50 million euros are planned in 2019. This is a halve of the budgetary resources compared to the current situation. [[Abg. Rosary: Very good!]] Whoever will make available the missing funds remains open, but one thing we know: In the end, it will be met especially in Vienna. You all know that, dear government parties, but you don't care about it, and maybe you're right. With cuts in this highly sensitive area, you prevent the integration and continue to contribute to the division of society. Your savings plans are on the back of the poor and the poorest. This group of people can then hold well as a scapegoat during the Vienna election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23392	The next item is the speech by Mr Kumpitsch. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23414	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Appreciate listeners! High house! In recent years we have had to experience everything: not only a wear of chancellors, vice-channers and ministers, who would have been more or less painful if there were also the saying: Something better doesn't come true! Reaffirmed – much worse, however, is that we also had to experience a security-punishment holocaust that hit the executive in full. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] To the outside, security was preached. On the inside, however, the devils came out of the spasm and saved planning stations, police stations were locked up, and eventually they tried to represent this as an increase in security for the country. The bill for this has been given in the last election, especially the SPÖ and the no longer existing greens. However, your remote government policy is now over. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Zadić. You're right: You just don't understand. In fact, today is a day of joy, because we actually have the largest security budget of the Second Republic. It is – and you may not understand this – a sign of the will of the government and our Minister of the Interior, to give our people the best possible protection from terrorists, from criminals, from illegal migration and from the exploitation of the social system. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But it is also a sign of appreciation for our police, which has done great things in recent years despite the most adverse circumstances. In concrete terms, the Federal estimates for 2018 for the breakdown of internal payments, Mrs. Zadić, amounting to EUR 2,831 billion and a further EUR 2,850 billion in the following year. This represents an increase of EUR 122.4 million this year alone compared to the previous year. In 2019 we will add 10.9 million euros. In return – and this is also important to know – asylum and migration are estimated at EUR 420 million. This breakdown was first included in the presentation and ensures transparency so that we can finally see how many million euros are actually used for asylum and migration. [[Abg. Yılmaz: That's why!]] - That's why. At the same time, we will spend 40 percent less than last year on this item, and a further reduction of 11.7 percent or 370 million euros is planned for 2019. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This makes it clear that we are now going to gradually correct the misdevelopments in the area of security in recent years. For further details, I would like to highlight the following measures, which the Ministry of the Interior sets out: The staff of the interior resort will be significantly increased. This year alone, we have 653 additional executive planning posts, with 250 of them coming to a compensation pool as compensation for carnations, part-time jobs and border control. So far, we have always had problems to compensate for these losses. In addition, 1 230 executive planning posts will be added next year. In all, we will have 34 453 planning points in the interior resort in 2019. On the other hand, the reduction – as you have already noted – in the expenditure on migration and asylum. We will ensure that we achieve this goal through rapid and efficient asylum procedures as well as consistent repatriation and foreign transfers of rejected asylum seekers. Last year alone, 60 000 asylum decisions were made and 12 000 people were taken out of the country. There has been a change in the trend, because now there is more negative than positive asylum decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget we have made a promise to the people. We have now created the budgetary conditions which allow us to ensure the maintenance of public order and security. That's the beginning. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] A next step will be to create the legal conditions that enable us to effectively combat crime and illegal migration.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23474	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23496	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I address my first few words specifically to the opposition and may tell you that you do not have to worry at all, the security of the country and the security of the population is with this Federal Government and with me as the Minister of the Interior in the best hands, and I think you know that very well. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think you know that, but you don't want to see it properly, and that's why strange arguments you have to take. Don't be angry with me, but if you criticize me, I will also allow myself some word of criticism: Mrs Zadić, you have already proved that you do not know what a big and small sign is and how to interpret it. I've seen you haven't closed this educational gap since then. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[He-Rufe at SPÖ and list fungus.]] Mrs Lueger has done a strange job-setting work and has given a lot of advice on many different sources, not just those that are of real relevance, and that is the staff plan that is now being decided, because if she had done so, she would not have discovered any contradiction. Mrs Krisper, please do not be angry with me either, but in fact you should be able to ask a lawyer to know what the authority of the internal body and what the jurisdiction of the judicial body is. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I sometimes suspect that you are using a political argument against your own better knowledge here, just to find the famous hair in the soup, because you know in truth that it is a very, very good security budget and a great leap for security in Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Krisper and Mr Duzar.]] It is simply a fact, and you can't discuss it away that in the history of this Republic, a federal government has never spent as much money on the security of its own population as this federal government does. I believe that this is a matter of course, and I believe that we will be in line with the safety needs of people. [[New call for tender Duzdar]] Actually, I would expect everyone here in this house to agree enthusiastically. It is a fact that the security of people in this country has never been worth the security of a federal government, as this federal government shows. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Plessl: Yes, exactly!]] I tell you that we do the same because we have learned from mistakes that others have made when I think only of red Chancellorships in series. We know the scarves, what you've put in to us, and we're going a step further, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Plessl: Who: you?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We also look forward and anticipate things so that we are not surprised by developments and events that we know very well that they are coming upon us. I believe that this is also something the Austrian population is expecting. [[Subsequent calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ.]] There has never been a federal government that has so massively increased the number of police officers, who have so massively increased the equipment and who is so careful that the necessary quality improvement is also done in the field of training, such as that of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are also guilty of this last measure to our police officers, those who spend 24 hours a day seven days a week and 365 days a year holding their heads for all of our safety. You may also think about it, because in total it would be a cause for great joy for you too. So I can invite you to get out of this car-suggested depression loop, into which you talked in there, to free yourself again and to see the facts in the eye. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Duzdar: We are here in Parliament, you should respect the House!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the great winners of this security budget, these are the Austrians, and this should be a cause for all of us to enjoy. The Austrians are winners because they can again have confidence in a government that is concerned with the security of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Security is a core business of the state, that's not what you can do next door, that's not what you can do, or what you're going to do in a sluggish way, how it sometimes happened in the past. No, no, we have a different attitude from this federal government. [[Abg. Do you know the Sobotka?]] The Austrians can again have confidence in a federal government that takes their concerns and fears seriously in the security field, where there is no representative, as in the past, for example, there has been from a elected chancellor party, which repeatedly explains to people that what they perceive does not at all correspond to the facts. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Noll: Why do you dishonor yourself with such a vocabulary?]] [[Mr Plessl and Mr Höbart's calls and appeals.]] People can again have confidence in a federal government that saves, but does not save in the wrong place. That is why safety is not saved, ladies and gentlemen. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Duzdar and Mr Drozda.]] If you go through the city with open eyes and open ears and if you might also visit some hotspot or other hotspot, you will notice that since the major developments around the migration movement in 2015 some changes have occurred in the security situation of Austria: [[New call for tender Duzdar]] Trade fairs are already on the agenda, as are growing religious fanaticism and the willingness to violence of foreigners, especially against executives. And then there are new threat scenarios that result from rapid development on the Internet and in the cyber sector. Now it is necessary to give the appropriate answers to all these challenges. That is what we are doing with this budget. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm telling you, our executive is doing excellent work. [[Abg. Duzdar: No one doubted that!]] [[Abg. Plessl: We can confirm that!]] The Enlightenment ratio is on a record high and in many, many areas of crime, it succeeds in bringing developments in the right direction and pushing them back. I congratulate all the police – precisely because they have to work all this hard and fight in some areas, against conditions that are not exactly the same as they should in many cases. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] In these conditions, we use this budget – with an overall package that fulfils two functions for me: On the one hand, this whole package is a fight against organized crime, the extremists, the Islamists, and all those who think they can commit impunity against our police officers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Duzdar: And the right-wing extremists?]] On the other hand, this package is a motivating syringe and a motivation turbo for our police officers and is supposed to take a lot of their suffering, which they had to endure for too long. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures are not lying. The total budget for 2018 is 3.26 billion euros. 2,84 billion euros of this go into the classical core area of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the fight against crime, police presence, equipment and quality assurance. We will continue to increase this share, which is 93 percent of the total budget, in 2019. Getting Now They say: Well, but the overall budget in 2019 goes a little back. - Yeah, that's right. Despite this slight decline, we increase this investment in the core sector and we save elsewhere. [[Abg. Plessl: How much?]] We are saving at another place – where some people in the country are hurting, namely in the asylum field. That's where we're going to be more restrictive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's going to be shortened. This is not a coincidence, but it is the result of a very, very clear change of direction, to which this Federal Government acknowledges itself. [[Abg. Plessl: How many millions?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a principle: The money we spend – including in this security budget – is not our money. The tax payers have had to earn it through hard work, so to speak, and they have resigned it to the State in order to meet their core needs in order to meet what they have to expect from those who are politically responsible. There's safety in the first place. That's why we do it the way we do it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has already been spoken of by this staff package, of these 4 100 additional planning posts. Of course, in the budget we also ensure that we have the appropriate framework conditions of a structural nature and that we ensure the appropriate framework conditions of pedagogical nature. [[Abg. Plessl: Budgetary, too?]] We want not only a quantitative increase, but also a qualitative increase. Mr Plessl has now asked questions about it, and the committee has been closed after three-quarters of an hour, because he has no more come to mind. Only so that this is now also correct. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Duzar: You don't do that in the high house!]] [[Abg. Noll: Unworthy!]] A combination of quality and quantity, we will need to ensure that high confidence in the police is guaranteed in the future. I am not willing to express my thanks to the police from this point of view. [[Abg. Noll: Yes, you're on!]] Thank you for the high level of motivation, for the commitment that is being made here – under conditions where I sometimes have to say that some NGOs who would look at it in connection with any asylum accommodation in Austria would shout out loud and say: It is not worthy of human beings, under which conditions some police officers in that country perform their duties. It is high time that we finally remedy this and do something against these conditions. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have already said that of the 2 100 additional sites that are not used in the field of training, about a thousand are wandering into a so-called compensation pool. I think it is very essential that we can make a balance here – a compensation for needs arising from carnations, from reduced weekly service times, from shifts and the like, as this relieves a great suffering pressure that is present. Our police officers have not deserved to rub themselves in overtime, ruin their health, and then perhaps destroy the families because they are very, very difficult to put into a hat. That's why this compensation pool is coming. Another part goes into the area of border surveillance. Here I am being increased because I never want to experience anything like this in this country in 2015 and because we cannot believe that in the Austrian population. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Fichtinger and Mr Rädler.]] Now you can say: But please, the number of asylum applications is falling and fewer people are coming! - Yes, but I'm telling you: Where, then, is there a reason to be warned and what guarantee can you give that there will not be migration movements in our direction in a few months for other reasons? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] Then we have to be equipped. I call that a responsible security policy – and not to be overshadowed by things that can be anticipated to come to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Because I'm just on border surveillance, I say quite clearly: Of course, I would like it if the European Union – as it has been promised – could protect our external borders in the Schengen area accordingly. We are quite far from that, I would like to say. This means the obligation for us to take all measures so that we ourselves can be adequately prepared and able to respond to the threats at all times. This is a great lesson from the years 2015 and following. I live everywhere I talk to the people about it, great advocacy for and great consistency with this active policy that looks forward. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] We will, of course, invest additional staff in the field of training and current needs, especially in the fight against new crime areas, such as cybercrime. But there is not only a large staff package, but there is also a modernisation boost or a technology boost if you want to. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Singer: Horch zu!]] This includes the security package, which some of you have denied as a monitoring package. [[Abg. Plessl: We can still talk about it on Friday!]] I would have liked these ladies and gentlemen to be with me today in the morning at a conference against organized crime on the Western Balkans route and then to hear what the practitioners there say after these gangs come day and night. They say how much it is necessary for them to be equipped with these new technical tools. [[Abg. Plessl: Does the Minister have to speak on the subject as well?]] This does not happen from jux and tollery, but because they can pull very dangerous criminal subjects out of traffic – much easier than it is so far possible. This is about human trafficking, drug dealers and potential terrorists. Personally, it seems to me to be quite unresponsible if one refuses to do so and at the same time speaks of trying to protect the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So if I'm talking about a technology push and a boost towards modernizing the equipment, then many things have already been mentioned – including the smartphones and tablets. Mobile police communications, that's the keyword. In my opinion, the police officer is not supposed to be anyone who has to beat around with the bureaucracy, but he is a security body, and the electronics have to do the bureaucracy in the background. This is the wishful idea, and we are starting to implement it. That's why 11.1 million euros will be invested in 2018 and in 2019 there will be 16.2 million euros – for these devices and for the corresponding software. We will put our application technology on new legs: New operational management centres, equipped with state-of-the-art technology, are increasing the safety of the population, because they also greatly increase the safety of officials involved. This is a huge investment package that must be interested in all of us. We must respond to the threats of terrorism by increasing accordingly in the long-range arsenal. The long weapons with which our executive is partially equipped have 30 years on the bumple and are no longer suitable to meet the challenges of time adequately. – There is also a large investment package of EUR 24 million. Protective vests, protective helmets, Gilets with stitch protection have already been addressed. I must mention that there will be helicopters capable of bringing in appropriate capacities and manpowers used for anti-terrorism purposes, snipers and similar, in place and place, which also have the transport capacities, and so on, and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Allow me to speak on asylum. I believe it is necessary for the first time in this budget to separate the area of security from the area of asylum and immigration. This is an act of transparency, an act of cost-truth and also a way of controlling things. It is important to me to say that we are increasing security investment while systematically reducing expenditure on asylum and migration. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have derived it from the election result in such a way that it is our task to implement it. Please do not accuse us now that we are doing what you have never done, namely to keep elections, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] For me, the expression of a restrictive, orderly asylum policy – an asylum policy that is primarily geared to the interests of the Austrians. Let me also say a word to the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, because here are officials at work who work with the largest acribics who examine each individual case in detail. I must strongly reject the procedure that is sometimes expressed by the media and, unfortunately, by representatives of this House against these officials. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It works with distortions, misinterpretations and misinterpretations, just because one does not agree that a new wind is now blowing in the asylum policy in Austria. It is a fresh wind, ladies and gentlemen, who are sore here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll get you together. The largest security budget in the Second Republic is a guarantee that the population will finally be taken seriously in its security needs. It is a guarantee that the police will get their hands on the staff and the armor they need to carry out their task. It is a guarantee that the tractors in this world know that Austria is not a rewarding country to try to live as an economic refugee over the back door of asylum with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23966	Thank you, Minister. Mr Einwallner is now on the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e23990	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was to be expected - - Madam President, I will try again. [[Calls: Microphone]] The micro doesn't work. [[Call the FPÖ:You only have to agree anyway! You just need to agree to the Minister of the Interior!]] [[Federal Minister Kickl refers to the microphone in his place.]] – Now we are going, thank you, Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister of the Interior! Indeed, it was to be expected that this federal government and the government parties in the security field will be overflowing with praises today. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But what happened here today is already paradoxical. It is paradoxical, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We know that FPÖ members do not have a great sense of history, but, Mr. Jenewein, you should remember the year 2000, because since 2000 there are only ÖVP ministers – exclusively. [[Call at the FPÖ:Who was Chancellor?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Cuddle!]] If the Minister of the Interior now speaks of what site he took over and the ÖVP commends for it, then it is incredible. This was a streetman who has gained many experiences in the field of justice in the meantime and immediately thereafter. [[Call at the FPÖ: I was already too much!]] They were fetters, plater, sobotka. That is the condition that the Minister of the Interior has taken over! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Continued calls at the FPÖ:You have no idea! Where are you from?]] Member of the Kumpitsch – again one who can't remember anything. The last police posts to be locked were under Black-Blue I between 2000 and 2006. You have to take note of that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The crucial question, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is how to use the more resources. The question is whether there is really more staff – Mrs. Lueger has already announced how difficult it can be – or whether you are using it differently. Where you've already used staff, that's in your cabins. Your cabinet costs 2 million euros in the year, that of the Secretary-General, 1.2 million euros a year. This is where you use your resources, you've used staff once, but on the street we don't have any more police officers, Mr. Interior Minister, and that's the problem. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. All right, let's stop that!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Poor! You're uninformed!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Painful!]] The funds would be used properly in good and best equipment. What you're doing, however, is to track your favorite project of the roded police. What you're doing: They use 4 million euros for ads. [[Call the FPÖ: Find out!]] This is the freedom policy that we unfortunately have in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the cuts in the field of justice, there is no longer any security. They're insecure the population. This is marked by the monitoring package that we will have on the agenda on Friday. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24191	Mr Donmez. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24213	High Bureau! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) – I hope to be able to introduce a little more serenity and materiality at a later hour. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] [[Further calls at NEOS and list Pilz.]] The Federal Minister has done something that no government has done so far. The SPÖ – I can remember it very well – has always said that migration and security have to be separated. This is the first time that the budget – and the budget is just a matter of figures – is made a distinction between internal security and migration agents. So I don't understand the excitement in part. What do you even want? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In 2015, there were about 425 asylum applications per day, today about 25. The need to react adequately in the system is logical and a matter of course. We report a decline of 1,500 basic supplies per month in basic supply. It is also logical that you respond to it and do not go on as if nothing had happened. This is politics with responsibility. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Especially in the 2017 Foreign Rights Change Act, we have already set the course for this. Therefore, there is also a decrease in asylum applications. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] But one thing you also have to say with all clarity: The criticism is that we are supposed to save in the area of integration. - That's not the case. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for integration, and also the Minister for Finance have said it several times: It is not saved in the integration area. Nevertheless, we have German courses throughout Austria, we have comprehensive value courses. Stop insinuating the people! Just like the sad discussion about the AUVA: It's not closed either. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] One thing I would like to hold here – look at the cover of today’s “Kronen Zeitung”! –: [[this pointing]] Little hidden girls. In the “Kurier” you can also see a picture on which you can see that in a mosque in Vienna there are small children in military uniforms. [[showing a newspaper section]] If you believe that you can solve this problem with integration and value courses, you dream of warm ice-creams. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That's where it needs clarity. There's no need for one. More integration courses and language courses, but there is a very clear edge to show, because the faces of political Islam, which abuse these children, must isolate us from the majority of Muslims and migrants who want nothing to do with these spiritual children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The extended arms of Erdoğan and the Muslim Brotherhood will not be part of this society in the next 50 years. I say that clearly. Every euro spent in this direction is a wasteful euro. That's where it needs clarity! [[New applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This will have to be regulated by the residence permits, by increased and better coordination and by increased and better exchange between authorities, so that we can abolish this nonsense and protect the majority of migrants and Muslims from precisely these influences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24324	Mrs Belakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24348	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Einwallner said in his speech that the last closures of police guards had taken place under Black and Blue I. - That's wrong. I'm actually correcting: In 2014, 16 police inspections were closed under Chancellor Werner Faymann during the red-black government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24376	Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner is speaking on the floor. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24397	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have calmed down again, then we can go on. I understand, of course, that the government parties are getting nervous. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Nevertheless, it is about the budget for the field of internal security. [[Unrest at the FPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] – I can imagine making you nervous, but that should not be a problem for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At this point it has to be said that safety in all areas of life should be taken as if one gear were one in the other. Only: To increase a budget, Mr Minister, without a great strategy behind it, is clearly too little. What do I mean by that? – The Minister of the Interior, with the acquisition of his twelve police horses, including the associated equipment, seems to have a childhood dream. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So we have a budget item of 900 000 euros for oats and horse blankets a year, from horse blankets to the veterinarian, from stable to hoofsmith, and not to forget, please that the horses are hopefully also worthy of proper protective equipment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I do not want to go any further in this regard on the sensibleness and on the protection of animals, but this 900 000 euros a year is missing for real police work and the minimum level of safety in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Look, you like to keep yelling, you feel comfortable. – Mr President, perhaps create You're all right here!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24472	I'm still asking for some kind of discipline for the last half hour. Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner has the floor. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24503	I'm thinking of the injured soldier a month ago before the Iranian Embassy and I know you don't want to hear that. I think you can all remember that. If the soldier had been a cop, who knows if he'd still be alive today? Why? - Because there isn't a vest for every police officer and every police officer. My colleague, Mr Lueger, said it before, she said it very charmingly. It would be nice if you could get faster protective vests. Mr Minister, I ask you here today: Look at our police officers! Look You're on it! They risk their lives for our safety every day. Look at her! You have the responsibility. They're the service provider. Look at the colleagues getting protective vests right away! - You don't have to leave the hall right now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, take a picture of what the police are doing every day and how little of their daily work is about combating pressing problems. To do this, they have to do a lot of bureaucracy every day – and this also prevents them from doing so. You must have time for the real police work again and not for Facebook-&-Co. stories you would like to sell. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Coming to the end: If you talk to cops, you won't hear from them that they need police horses. These are not the urgent concerns of the police. The urgent concerns they suffer, as you mentioned earlier, are: no proper rules for overtime, no proper protective equipment, flashlights that do not work – it already fails to do so small things – computers that do not work. It is time, Minister, for you to carry out your work as Minister! They're not a riding instructor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24557	Mr Werner Herbert is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24581	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To start with Mr Einwallner's words: It is really paradoxical—paradox, what you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, are subtracting here for a show against better knowledge, because I do not think you are so narrow. I don't believe or I don't want you to believe you've been so badly prepared. I don't want to believe that what you're offering here from the speaker's desk is really your attitude. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This would be an insanity, an insanity to our police officers, but also to our people who require more security and more police every day, in the event of a security situation, in the face of which I may invite you: Go to the Praterstern for a moment! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Come on. Get out of your red doll house and go into the reality of the brutal everyday life of police work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you can experience how police work really ticks in reality. If you, Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner, want to explain to me here that the time for real police work is not related to the availability of additional staff, this is a contradiction in itself. This is the return of the normal world, I would have said almost. Just because we demand the return of normal police work, precisely because we want to make sure that the police again have more time to carry out their own police tasks, precisely because we also want to ensure that the people's claim to see police again on the street and not only when something has happened – because they have had a breakdown at home, the car has been stolen or any other criminal acts have happened on property – but in advance, so that they can feel safe, enough is done, we need these additional police officers. Our Minister of the Interior Kickl, with this budget that we are discussing today, but also with the security package he has already addressed, is a guarantee that this will happen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me to add another supplement to the question of horses – yes or no – rode police – yes or no: I want to admit to you that you have a historically difficult awareness in this regard, we say it carefully, but you can also argue about whether you like animals or not and whether you accept animals from the police or not. You can like dogs at the police or not, you can also like horses at the police or not. In many European cities, an institution such as a police officer is a good, suitable and valuable complement to the normal police service. There are only positive feedbacks for this, not only from the population, but also from the police who realize that it is better under certain conditions to rely on the support of animals – such as a police dog – which, of course, must be well trained and equipped, in order to cope with certain operations better. That is why we also have the right to introduce these police officers into a trial operation in Austria. If you are addressing the costs of these police, I can offer you a comparison: Consider what a motor boat costs at Wörthersee or at the power police or what the motorized use or purchase of vehicles costs for the Alpine police! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] This isn't a theme. Just because you are apparently subsuming a Déjà-vu experience from past times out of an unsuccessful process of historical reprocessing, you are now claiming to criticize the police. I don't think that's fair to our police officers, because for many, the use of a rode police is a really important and meaningful addition, perhaps not to police officers who are socialistally colored with whom you are surrounded. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I can invite you, go to the actual focal watchroom, there you can hear what's going on. [[Abg. Plessl:... in the party their own police...!]] In this sense – not excited, Mr Plessl, you will still be able to do so – I should like to express my thanks to Mr Federal Minister and thank all the police officers on behalf of my group for their daily commitment to the security of our people. It is probably also a vocation to practice the profession of the police officer or the police officer, for he is so unmistakable and so incomparable with other professions, it seems hardly possible to make it out in any way in a grid comparison. It is all the more remarkable that the police are working daily for you, for the population, for the protection of all of us. I should like to thank them very much for this and my highest appreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24655	The next item is Mrs Nurten Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24679	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have an honest and not cynical question to the colleagues of the ÖVP: How are you really talking about Mr. Kickl as if he were the first Minister of the Interior in the Second Republic? How are you? How are you, Mr President? [[Cheerfulness and applause with SPÖ and NEOS.]] Federal Minister Kickl comes here as if he had taken over a civil war country. So really, it's incredible, you can be exaggerated, but you haven't taken over a civil war country, Minister! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] We are still one of the safest countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: Despite SPÖ!]] Mr Federal Minister, what really upsets me and is unbearable, that is how you reject Members, just because they ask you questions in committee. [[Abg. Kassinger: It's not that funny!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do you think you're for? We control you and we have questions, and you have to answer them or not, but to name the individual Members by name and answer to the question that it would not be worth it, that is really unbearable. [[Abg. Lausch: For this we have the President, not you!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] To the BFA: This is neither about the staff nor about the police, but They have the responsibility to tell us why decisions of the BFA, 42.4 percent last year, were rejected by the Federal Administrative Court. How's it going? Something's wrong. You have to tell us why. [[Abg. New builder: We didn't understand you acoustically!]] That's from the old clothes collection. How can it be explained that decisions of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, i.e. the first instance, are withdrawn to 42.4 percent? [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Now there are many mayors here: Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, 42 percent of your decisions and decisions would be cancelled. What happens then? [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a rule of law!]] [[Abg. Kristist: Bad example!]] You, Mr. Rädler, are mayors. Imagine, your decisions will be rejected to over 40 percent and you will be told: Look, read this again! [[Call the ÖVP: You would... wish!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] So I believe that we and not just you, Minister of the Interior – it's not that this has been the case for 100 days – have been having a problem there for a long time, that's all our problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] Let's take this seriously! One thing I have to say about the enforcement of election promises: Mr. Federal Minister, you were the one who called the monitoring package a Stasi method. What happened in these 100 days? What happened? [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] You're federal ministers and you're pretending to have written the law yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24866	The next item is the speech by Mr Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24887	Mr President. Federal Minister! I'm allowed to call on the High House for attention. I have followed the debate very closely in the last few minutes and have somehow had the impression that here in the hall everyone is talking to everyone. It would be nice if you would give me your attention, because we come to a very important topic from my point of view, to the UG 11, responsibility of the Minister of the Interior: civil service. As a civil servant of our parliamentary club, it is also really my concern to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the civil servants in Austria once. [[It was a pleasure with ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as with the representatives of NEOS.]] That deserves, I think, really applause, because the numbers are impressive: We have about 15,000 civilian officers in Austria. We know they don't do this quite voluntarily, they don't get paid very well. I have time and again the opportunity to have talks with civilians, and I have the impression that they take away from civil service really something with them, they spend 15 million hours. [[Abg. Scherak: Military service!]] . Service of replacement, thank you. It is also very important that about 25 percent of civil servants remain as volunteers in the various institutions. This is therefore a very important source of recruitment for the Honorary Office, and civil service workers are very significantly responsible for Austria's functioning in the social field. Civil servants are involved in rescue, health, disability care, old-age care, social assistance, drug addicts, foreign service and much more. I think that deserves all our appreciation. A little worried now, in this age class, we are fulfilling the topic of birth declines. We have fewer Austrians reporting for civil service. This is also the reason why civil service is a little less taught than last year. However, I was assured on request that, of course, it will be ensured in the future that all civil services, all civil service agencies, can be equipped with the relevant civil service officers. I find it very exciting that the civilian officers take away from civil service. There is a study in which they were asked: Civil servants indicate that they have strengthened their interest in social issues, improved their communicative skills, developed a greater understanding of older people, they are more taxable, they have acquired expertise and have also developed in the field of team capacity. For this reason, civil service is also an excellent basis for getting into work later on. Civil service is a success story, I am glad that it is also taught in the new budget accordingly. Of course, I wish all civil servants in Austria all the best. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24930	Next item is the speech by Mr David Lasar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e24954	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On and on, I can understand that the opposition is so troubled today and that there is nothing that works, that there is nothing going on. I can only say one thing: That can only be the white envy at this security budget we are discussing today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Right!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have done nothing in recent years. Oh, one thing went on with you, let me say this: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayer]] [[Abg. Vogl: (in the direction of President Sobotka signpost) There you have to address your criticism!]] [[Abg. Rosary: envy is the most open form of recognition!]] [[Abg. Scherak: Which party do we insult now?]] The only security feature that has come about under you is the Pollers at the Federal Chancellor's Office. Otherwise, you didn't do anything! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was exactly for your Federal Chancellor who signed in there. Otherwise, you didn't do anything, nothing at all. [[Abg. Bacher's got his hands up.]] - Yes, just raise your hand, very right. They have done nothing, and today we are talking about the best security budget of the Second Republic, on all lines only envy, ladies and gentlemen. You can't even build a hospital in Vienna, let alone guarantee security. That's the problem you have. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutors Vogl and Scherak.]] They criticize a Federal Minister who provides the best and safest budget, a Federal Minister who has increased. For staff, he has also provided 2 100 planning posts, 2 000 additional training places are planned – and that is what you criticize? Yes, what security budget do you want in the future? What do you want? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] No police, no-one at the Praterstern, just asylum seekers, only criminals, just drug dealers – what do you want? We did this, our Federal Minister was able to send the police there every day. There was a plan square at every corner every day. [[Abg. Wheelers:... states!]] That's the problem we've had. I hope that there won't be any more in the future. We want women to be able to take the subway home in the evening and walk over the Praterstern unlit. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There's no such thing as that right now. They criticise when our Federal Minister creates a concept, so that at last security prevails in this country – especially in Vienna. Westbahnhof, other things, every day knives, but in this respect there is no criticism from you. [[Abg. Hauser: Red-Green!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Duzdar.]] I always hear: That's nothing. You don't need that! What are we supposed to do for? – This is exactly your policy that you have continued for years. [[Call the ÖVP: Selected!]] You see it yourself: It didn't work. We finally do with our coalition partner – at last! – a policy that was not even possible with you in the approach. It has not even been possible to make a reasonable security policy with you, ladies and gentlemen. A milestone on which you will of course be evocative and excited is the asylum area – a central topic. Something's happening now, friends. There will be pushed off – without If and But – and not checked whether it is good or bad for the person. It's being pushed off when it's to move off, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Vogl: This is not a milestone, that is...!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Plessl and Mr Scherak.]] In the future, it will also be with the asylum applications in Europe. This is also a European asylum policy. There will then be no more asylum applications in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about this budget today. There has been no great criticism on your part. There's only a scream, like: That's nothing, you can't do anything! – But, in fact, in your very heart, you have to agree to this budget, ladies and gentlemen, because much of your criticism has in fact not remained. [[Abg. Bacher: The Lamperl lights!]] [[Abg. Duzdar: I like to believe that you don't have anything to hang on!]] You have made a call in all directions, right, left, up and down, criticized, but it was more or less nothing. That's exactly your policy. Finally, I can only say: Mr. Federal Minister, continue, let the opposition cry out! It's good when they get excited and scream, because only so do we know we're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25169	I call Mr Karl Mahrer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25246	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I think we have reached a point in the debate where, if you are all involved, we could bring about a short change of mood and think about what we are actually sitting for and what we are working for. To this end, I think of two pictures: This one picture shows thousands of police who are currently doing night duty in Austria at about half past ten o'clock, in the country, in the cities. From my experience I know: Half ten, ten o'clock, that's the most time of use. They take care of our safety and they don't know if they'll come home healthy tomorrow in the morning. We're here for them! Ladies and gentlemen, if we are going to decide this week the highest security budget in this Republic, this is also a sign of appreciation and retention for these police officers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there's another picture in my mind. What do people really want from politicians? I'm a very young politician, but I feel it. [[Abg. Loacker: Almost as old as I am!]] What do people want from politics especially in connection with our current subject? – On the one hand, they want parties and politicians to comply with their promises they made before the election, on the other hand, they wish their basic need number one – the Federal Minister mentioned it: Security – is also fulfilled. They wish they could live in freedom in this country because there is security in that country. Ladies and gentlemen, we are meeting these demands for point. FPÖ and ÖVP have said and promised what they are for: In the next two years, we are investing 250 million more in the core area of security alone. We are now carrying out the security offensive that has already begun, which Interior Minister Wolfgang Sobotka has launched, in the responsibility of our new Federal Minister Herbert Kickl. We'll implement the security package. That is exactly what people in this Republic expect from politics, not debt allocations, but a policy that is orderly and clear. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to mention two contents which, I believe, are very important and which have not yet been mentioned in the corresponding dimension: By 2019 each executive staff will have a smartphone. Each service will have a tablet, and there will be software available so that it can be launched faster and less managed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Singer: Can you even make a phone call with your phone or just by landline?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Singer: He knows everything better!]] Physical safety, ladies and gentlemen, is guaranteed. The ballistic protective guitars come, for every executive in Austria. This is a clear sign that this federal government is very keen on the security of police officers. 2 100 additional posts, 2 000 training places are provided. Mrs Lueger, the Federal Minister, has also mentioned the plan, not only saying that we are getting these posts and the staff, but also saying how it is used in the process of this package, point by point. I believe that ladies and gentlemen, with these plans and with this budget, we can also follow the budget figures visible in the next few years. This budget ensures that the police can effectively and efficiently fight crime and prevent terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zadić said: The subjective sense of security of people in Austria can also be improved. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ: Work on improving the subjective sense of security! Convince the new and now active Wiener SPÖ that she finally confesses to order in public places! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Yeah!]] I would like to conclude by thanking the Federal Government as a whole, German Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, Vice-Chancellor Strache, Finance Minister Löger and especially Mr Herbert Kickl, who has negotiated this budget and will now also implement it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] Finally – and this is particularly important to me – to all the Members who have spoken today: Mrs Yılmaz, Mr Einwallner, you will not succeed, in all courtesy, in driving a rope between the government parties. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With this security budget, we keep our promises together. We're giving the police a hold on and we're going to make Austria the safest country in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25382	Mr Hannes Amesbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25403	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! If you allow this debate to happen a little bit, especially the speeches by the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you will notice how very excited you are desperately trying to misrepresent this package by the Minister of the Interior, this Federal Government in the field of asylum, in the field of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] You do not succeed, as the arguments are not on your side, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No one outside will believe that it is worthy of criticism if expenditure on asylum is reduced. What a scandal! We have heard the figures, and for asylum and migration, 420 million euros are in the budget in 2018, which is about 280 million less than in the previous year. In 2019, this amount will fall to EUR 370 million, which means another 50 million savings, and this amount will continue to fall by 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, why is this going down? – Mr Dönmez has already mentioned it: Of course by the fact that there are currently fewer asylum applications – at present! ; one must also be prepared for other times, as the Minister of the Interior rightly argued – that illegal migration is stopped, that there is finally a restrictive deportation policy in this country. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Oh-noise at the SPÖ]] That, of course, reduces the cost! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The measures that will be implemented in the future will also lead to budgetary savings, because of course it is a milkmaid bill: Fewer immigrants into the social system and basic care means less costs. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, what reasonable argument should there be against, for example, Minister Kickl's planned follow-up to criminal asylum seekers? - Well, of course! If a person comes to us and abuses the hospitality right in this country Austria, which this person provides protection and help, with feet and feet, this person of course has to go again, ladies and gentlemen. That's quite clear! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Another point is that citizenship can only be granted after ten years and not after six years. Austrian citizenship is a very, very high asset, with which we should deal with very, very responsible – and also sparingly at the award. In addition, access to the accompanying cash from asylum seekers, which is included in this package, will be brought by Minister Kickl to the Council of Ministers tomorrow. [[Abg. Plessl: You are talking about the security package, not the budget!]] It is a matter of course that those who are offered food and logis here also make a contribution – anyway only very small – to the whole process. [[Abg. Rosary: This is already budget-relevant!]] The evaluation of mobile phones - - - No, this is not a case of failure, these are all the measures that will also be budgetaryly felt, Mr President, because we will also spend more money on asylum seekers and asylum seekers. [[Abg. Plessl: This is a thematic error!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: That costs something too! This has to do with the budget!]] The evaluation of the mobile data of those people who believe that they can lead our authorities around the nose, and the accelerated withdrawal of the right of asylum in the case of asylum seekers' leave – it is high time that those people who make vacations in these areas are so terrible that they have to be persecuted and fled, of course, can also stay there – are important and correct steps. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In short, the most important thing: Austria must be for asylum seekers from all men Countries are becoming more unattractive and unattractive. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] Of course, in the future, what we will see in the budget also includes the need-oriented minimum guarantee where the Minister of Social Affairs is currently in the process of unifying this spotter in Austria in order to stop this social and minimum security tourism within Austria. Talks are going on with the social representatives of the countries, but one thing I say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: The minimum level of protection in the red-green Vienna will certainly not be the model for the national minimum guarantee! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Federal Government saves on foreign spending, while investing in security for the Austrians and also ensures discharges for Austrian citizens, ladies and gentlemen. The age of the welcome clatter, the asylum novelist and the left dreamer is over. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now is the time of the responsible realists in this country, and that is good for Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25554	Mr German Minister Herbert Kickl has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25588	You are now getting a few facts where you need them, Mr President. First of all, to Mrs Yılmaz: I am entirely of your opinion that Austria is, of course, not a civil war country. Of course, I would also ask you to share my opinion that Austria is not a country of immigration, where asylum and immigration, herb and beet are mixed. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] I would also ask you to agree that Austria should not be a country in which the tractors determine who gets protection and who does not. [[Abg. Duzar: Who said that?]] I think we might also be able to understand that Austria should not be a country where the same thing is, whether you get a positive or a negative asylum notice, because you're still staying in the country anyway. My understanding of the rule of law does not allow that to happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then some Members have been concerned about the security of personnel in the field of embassies and have brought this into a connex with the protective vests, which are only delivered in the fourth quarter of this year. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One has nothing to do with the other. Of course, those police officers who work in the embassy guard are already equipped with appropriate protective vests. The others will be added. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is another point which, I believe, is not irrelevant: There is always so much criticism of the decisions of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. It is also necessary to look a little more closely at what it means when the Federal Administrative Court amends or resolves a corresponding decision of this Federal Office. This is quite interesting, because not every amendment or any resolution of a negative decision automatically leads to a protection fee. But this is what is always suggested here. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Noll and Mr Stöger.]] The Bundesverwaltungsgericht obviously counts a change in its statistics even if only one point of a corresponding proverb is changed. [[Abg. Sherak: That's all right!]] Let me give you an example: For example, the Federal Office decides that someone is not a refugee, has no subsidiary protection, has no humanitarian residence permit. This means that there is a return decision and a deadline is set for a 14-day voluntary leave. If the Federal Administrative Court now decides that the deadline for voluntary leave is not 14 days but three weeks, then this is considered to be a change of the saying and is an attack hit for the statistics that you are so happy to make. I think it's just important that you take this into consideration again and again. Another example: The Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum makes a return decision in conjunction with a ban on entry for a period of ten years. Then the Federal Administrative Court goes here and says: Well, not a ten-year ban on entry, but a five-year ban. This does not change the quality of the saying at all, but it is considered to be the corresponding amendment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] I believe that it is simply unacceptable that you act as if any amendment would slow down a negative saying.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25674	Mr Hermann Gahr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25699	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Yılmaz was concerned about the ÖVP. Mrs Colleague, let me tell you: Austria was also a safe country among the ministers of the ÖVP Sobotka, Mikl- Leitner and Fekter, and will also remain a safe country under the current Minister of the Interior. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sherak: That's what the President is looking forward to!]] With the present budget – the figures have already been explained in detail – we create the framework conditions for responding to and acting on the changes and challenges relating to public security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] It's about investing specifically in personnel. 3 of 4 euros flow into the planning sites, and I think that's important and good so. We invest in equipment, helicopters, protective clothing, arms, digital radio, but also in IT. I think safe equipment and safe clothing are essential conditions for success in the security service. If we take into account the situation in the security field, one thing is clear: there are some areas of threat such as addiction crime and trade that accompany us every day. There are many seizures and more crimes the next day. It is the area of anti-state extremism, in which there are indeed developments where we need to use more power and resources. In the first half of 2017, Internet crime increased by 23 percent in Austria, with 7 500 ads. The figures clearly and clearly show that we need to be better and more intensive in these areas. Another point is also the whole area of border protection, which also affects us Tyroleans. We are grateful for the fact that these border protection measures are being taken in particular in the area of migration. In this respect, we will also have to take precautions in the future if it is necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, this budget is one of the prerequisites that security in Austria is not in danger of ensuring and ensuring security in Austria. I believe it is important that we work together on this and that we take seriously the things that accompany us every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25753	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25775	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate viewers! I should like to join me seamlessly on a subject which my previous speaker, Mr Gahr, has already mentioned, namely cybercrime. This is a form of crime that has seen massive growth in recent years. Let's look at the 2017 figures: Over 17 000 ads have been made. If we look at only a small part of it, namely those crimes committed against computer systems or against data, there was even an increase of about 35 percent compared to 2016. Cybercrime in itself is not just a technical problem. If we look at the incidents of the last months, the increase in Ransomware that has just affected small and medium-sized enterprises, data theft or data manipulation, we also see that cybercrime is an economic and also a democratic problem. All the more so, the Ministry of the Interior, under Johanna Mikl- Leitner and Wolfgang Sobotka, has also set out measures to address cybercrime in recent years, and also among you, Minister Slickl. On the one hand, we find a budget for the expansion of the workforce – technically, highly specialised experts who accept cybercrime, for example, in the Cybercrime Competence Center, where they also provide their knowledge to combat and clarify cybercrime. On the other hand, in the field of prevention, we find the joint project, which was initiated some time ago, aimed at citizens in order to inform them of cybercrime. In this context, I would like to express a special praise for the initiative “Jointly Safe with the Economy” jointly implemented with the Chamber of Commerce, where it is put together with entrepreneurs to support these in the day-to-day struggle – and it is indeed a daily struggle – against cybercrime, because not every company has an IT expert with it. Finally, measures we will be setting up in the coming weeks will cover the protection of critical infrastructure, vital services, sectors, products and services. This is about water supply via energy supply, which concerns communication routes, transport and health, which are all vital areas, which of course also need to be protected. We will also introduce concepts and processes in the communication of companies with the authority to set up one another in order to identify security threats while also putting in place remedies. These are all points that can also be found in the budget. Thus, it is also a budget that is directed towards the future, which also adapts to new and future threats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25817	Mr Plessl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25838	Mr President. Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! One thing we can put, I think, apart from dispute, is the amount of the budget, and there we are all satisfied that this amount has also been brought together. Minister of the Interior Kickl, you can be proud! But if I compare with the demands of Secretary-General Kickl, who was responsible for the negotiations in the field of security – for national defence, but also for internal affairs – and if I compare this area with the budget provided here, then you have failed to defend the country. [[Abg. Gudenus: What the hell is going on?]] We are going to deal with the national defence budget tomorrow. I have the feeling that Minister Kickl has allocated himself at the expense of his partner to the budget that the coalition partner has made available to him. We'll work up exactly where that happened tomorrow. But that's the feeling we have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Thank God you have a feeling at all!]] To the budget: You mentioned 3,26 billion euros here. That's a nice sum, but there's a few additions. We still have to make adjustments to ensure that we know what numbers are recorded. For example, we have the EU Presidency here. In the written reply, you said that this is not an extra item, but more than EUR 15 million is planned. We also have staff. We do not need to discuss this, we also know the cause: In the years 2000 to 2006, there were less than 3,000 police officers in the Interior. We have been building since 2008 and we are far from where we want to go. I'm also right to say that you're not responsible for the shelter now. [[Abg. Rosary: After three months?! Sorry!]] These are your predecessors, the former ÖVP minister Sobotka, Mikl leader, but also fecter. This is the game we already know: Plan posts have been created, but these plan items must also be budgeted accordingly. It must be taken into account that a police student costs 100 000 euros for two years. And you want to record 2 100! If you count these amounts together, then this surplus you mentioned will be reduced once. If you want to increase the staffing level with this Federal Government, you also need to increase the budget accordingly. We do not see this increase, so there is also criticism from our side in this area. We also fear the way in which our former coalition partner continues. Safety packages have been chained in the federal states. There were promises that staff will come. I believe that almost no one has been implemented by the actual commitments made at the time. If we look at this again and break down what's happening, Minister, then I hope you're not on the move and I'll also tie up such security packages because you know the problems in the recording. You now have to take in expensive personnel because at the time the ÖVP ministers did not take those people who passed the recording test. Why? – I can also say that there are written questions from myself and from colleagues, which have been held: 40 percent of colleagues passed the reception test, but the ÖVP ministers received only 20 percent. [[Abg. Jarolim: This is interesting!]] There's an abuse you have to go along with, Minister of the Interior. That costs more, and these are failures that we still have to deal with. We know whose responsibility this is. There is no need for anyone from the FPÖ to come with the argument that we have been in charge, because the concrete figures were also planned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: You are still in charge! You're all to blame!]] Minister of the Interior, you're talking about border protection. I mean, 500 officials, that's your beautiful stick horse next to the party horse you want. The fact that there are certain measures to be taken in the area of border protection at the airport, the increased surveillance and so on, I understand that. But if you do the other one here while you are not even able to make sure in the Ministry of the Interior that you can guard the messages, then you have set wrong priorities. A big difference, ladies and gentlemen, is the following: The SPÖ Minister Doskozil has made sure that the officials had long before these vested vests. You only need a similar incident so that you have finally implemented this acquisition by the end of the year. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] The government programme of your two parties states that you want to carry out an accelerated asylum procedure, but, ladies and gentlemen, you have fallen by the wayside. You have fallen by, and that is why - I would like to say why, then I will stop, Mr President. [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. That's great!]] 120 posts are saved in the Federal Administrative Court, in the area responsible for processing asylum procedures in second instance. So where do you want to make an acceleration when you save in this area? [[Abg. Rosary: Secure third countries!]] That's not all right. I'm more concerned that you like Orbán You want to get your enemy images up to the next choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e25980	The list of speakers is soon exhausted. Last, but not least, Mr. Nikolaus Principal spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26004	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Plessl! [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] [[President Sobotka gives the bell sign.]] In your speech, I had the impression, phase by stage, that in reality you are really happy at the changes and the facts that are pictured in the budget, that you must not say that because you feel in your own group, so to speak, in the minority. There's got to be something like that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, security is a great asset for the people, and this budget for 2018 and 2019 also accounts for this, which the government takes into account. With regard to subheading 18: Asylum/Migration, I believe, is quite right to note that the figures take account of the case-rates at a correspondingly lower level and that this also reflects the budgetary requirements. We should also remember that integration must also be feasible. We cannot now integrate everyone and everyone who comes to Austria. I think everyone and every one of us knows good examples of integration, but also very many where there is a great need for action. I'd like to hold on: There are three basic rules for all who want to come to us and stay with us: to learn language, to work and to respect and acknowledge our values and order of life. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can say a few sentences about the Mauthausen Memorial, which falls within the competence of Mrs Edtstadler's Secretary of State. It is clear to me that this at around 4 million euros a year is not the big financial dimension, but we should not forget that the Mauthausen Memorial is actually the business card for how we deal with the NS time. In terms of content, I can speak at around 5.30 p.m. of my colleague Mr Mag. Martin Engelberg references, in which everything was said to be observed. Really respect for the way it was formulated! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Around 47 employees are employed in the Mauthausen Memorial and there are also about 70 intermediaries. Only a few figures confirming that excellent work is being done, and the dimension is: That there have been some 252,000 visitors, 3 800 mediation offers and more than 880 000 views of the Facebook page last year also says something. We should also remember that 2018 is a year of commemoration; In her speech on the subject of art and culture, Mr Plakolm referred to it. I believe that awareness raising is not only necessary this year and in these weeks, but always. As a society and also as a politician, we must not be blind either on the right or on the left. Take care of our responsibility! It is, I believe, in the sense of a safe Austria. In this sense a beautiful evening and a good night! It'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26083	The discussions on this subject have ended. I thank you for the lively discussion, and – Mr Prince has already predicted – we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. with the deliberations of Divisions 34 and 41 on transport, innovation and technology. The sitting was suspended. [[The meeting would be held on Tuesday, 17. April 2018, at 21.55 p.m. and on Wednesday, 18th. April 2018, resumed at 0.00 a.m.]] [[21:55:39]] [[09:04:35]] Continued the meeting: 0.00 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26132	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen on the ranks and at home in front of the screens! I'll take the 19th. Meeting of the National Council, which I interrupted last night, reopened. For today's session as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Androsch, Katzian and Sharpel. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26162	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl. We continue the budget consultation. I announce that ORF 2 will forward the meeting live by 1 p.m., ORF III will be handed over to the full-length meeting today, and that part of the meeting, which will go beyond 7.40 p.m., will be sent in time. I'm allowed to announce, unfortunately there's no picture in the live stream. Work is being done on resolving the problem. It worked perfectly until the evening, he's out of place now. The sound is available in the offices, even on the screens. Please take note of this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26207	We have decided to comply with the 8 “Vienna hours” day block time for today’s session, so that the following speaking times may arise: ÖVP 148, SPÖ and FPÖ each 132 as well as NEOS and list mushroom per 44 minutes. The breakdown of today's discussions is known. [[09:06:16]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26244	We are now allowed in the deliberations on subheadings 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) and 41: Transport, Innovation and Technology are taking place, which is a joint debate. Mr Alois Stöger is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26268	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear spectators here in the hall and in front of the screens! We're coming to the transport budget. This budget on transport also shows what is generally evident, namely that people are being saved. [[Abg. Singer: Of course!]] The transport budget was greatly reduced compared to the 2017 to 2020 financial framework. We note that the ÖBB Framework Plan saves EUR 1.8 billion in investment. We note that the Asfinag has issued an additional basket fee for the Minister of Finance. If you drive on the motorway, you pay toll, especially the truck drivers and the freighters, and there you have also turned 100 million euros from the area of Asfinag as a dividend into the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it's going off the street. These cuts show that it is saved in people. What does that mean? – 2 billion euros less means fewer orders for companies. [[Abg. Hauser: Such a fool!]] This corresponds to IHS, which can be read, 30 000 jobs – jobs that we urgently need. The cuts also promote mobility poverty. What do I mean by that? – Mobility poverty is particularly affected by those people living in the country. I'm from a primer environment. There I have everything. There are good traffic links in the south, but when you come to the north, people have more difficult access to public transport. Not everyone can afford a car, and this mobility poverty creates fewer opportunities. More public transport creates more freedom, more equal opportunities. This creates the opportunity for students from the Mühlviertel, for example from my region, to study in Vienna. This makes it possible for Pendler to come to Vienna faster from the Vienna Basin, and this also allows grandparents to go home after the concert in the evening. The cuts punish the people of the country, the elderly, and especially the people with less income. By the way: Reductions go at the expense of quality of life. Imagine you're in traffic jams! That's not what we want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] With your cuts, you also risk reducing the safety of the train. As a result, EUR 150 million less is planned for the creation of security measures. In summary, it is to be said: You cut down the jobs for the people, you cut down on mobility the freedom of people, you cut down on quality of life, and you even cut down on the safety of the population. It doesn't change anything if you tell people exactly the opposite with the help of the basket money for a lot of marketing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26330	Mr Christian Hafenecker is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26351	Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting that yesterday only Mrs. Duzdar understood what the government really was talking about: We save in the system and we don't save people. Perhaps there is still a dialogue with Mr Stöger. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] By the way, I would have expected more from a former transport minister than to live out his democracy-political polytrauma on the speaker's desk. - But, well, that's what's left him. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking Mr Finanzminister and Mr Verkehrsminister for the fact that the objectives we have set ourselves in the government programme can already be implemented after four months, that we can really present a budget that must be said that the SPÖ has not brought it together for the last four years. As Mr Stöger was standing here just before, and all that did not work in the transport policy, one must already ask the question: Where is the SPÖ's priority in transport policy in the last four years, except that it has replaced the Minister responsible each year during this period? We have all failed in this place, starting with Mrs Bures, about Mr Stöger, who has also failed. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now he reads the paper again, so it should not be so interesting for him to hear what's going on here at the speaker's desk. [[on a newspaper-reading Abg. Slide Shown]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] The only one to whom one might have agreed to put the whole thing in the right direction was Mr. Leichfried, but he was unfortunately overwhelmed by the voters. Ladies and gentlemen! Four ministers, four unsuccessful years in transport policy – we're going to rip the row around. I have to tell you quite clearly – we have seen this in the course of the government negotiations –: Our Federal Minister Hofer took over a massive construction site from SPÖ and did the best to correct the failures within four months accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! We have given ourselves a savings target of 217 million euros for 2018/2019. This objective has already been met with this budget. It was also set high targets by 2022, which could already be exceeded. One can at least save 3.9 billion euros in the Federal Ministry of Transport, but the proceeds from the broadband auction are of course already included. Most of the budget, as you know, when you know this resort, flows into the ÖBB. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the employees of the ÖBB, who, of course, have worked hard to improve efficiency and increase productivity. - Thank you from our side. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One can clearly see if there are appropriate requirements that there is, of course, also the motivation within the company to make this most important transport operation of the Republic future fit and also to keep competitive. I think that's an important point, and that's where you have to go. That is why we have also succeeded – primarily the Federal Minister – in cooperation with the ÖBB in setting up and placing on solid financial legs certain things that were left by the previous government more or less than scrapping piles. Ladies and gentlemen! If I looked at the ÖBB Framework Plan, I would have liked to know how the SPÖ-led resort would have wanted to achieve all that was planned. That was not eligible for funding. What would have been the consequence of this, would it have been enforced or implemented? – One would have deleted projects as we know from the past. That is the truth, and that was the first political amok ride towards the tree. What did Federal Minister Hofer do? He didn't delete any project, but you just looked at how to put these projects on solid financial legs, what you can do. And if you look at that – it is once a problem of SPÖ that it has relatively little idea of the economy – you realize, of course, that the economic situation and the economic situation in the construction industry must also be dealt with accordingly. If you look at this situation, you also have to be clear that higher prices are to be paid especially in the currently overheated phase of construction. That is why we have managed through the reasonable extension of projects to carry out the corresponding retranslations in the ÖBB Framework Plan and also to enable all the projects that were planned. So it's about house thinking. It is about talking to stakeholders, and it is about these investment-absorbing measures, which were also implemented at the end of the day. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to save 2 billion euros. This led to a reduction in the Maastricht deficit of the Republic and a reduction in the re-indebtedness of the ÖBB by 3.3 billion euros over the coming period. We have seen the problems, we have acted and we have made the Republic's main transport operations fit for the future. Another important point is digitisation, but also broadband development. As you know, the auctions of the 5G frequencies are on, compared with other similar awards within the EU, we can already say for sure that we can expect about 50 million euros in 2018 and about 400 million euros in 2019. With this money, ladies and gentlemen, we will ensure the continuation of the digitalisation measures in Austria and also ensure that we remain not only competitive in this area but also at the top of the EU. Mr Leichtfried, perhaps another information for you: We will also see that we are actually solving the problem with Hasendorf, so 2018 is the year of Hasendorf. [[Abg. Scherak: That would be important!]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] What's going on on the street? Safety and traffic flow are the most important issues that we have addressed for this year. That is why there are already initial measures such as the temporary release of pan strips. The commuters on the A 4 will thank us. This should not be used to build savings cars now by releasing all pan strips, no, you have to take certain measures in the sense of safety and traffic flow on time where it is necessary. That's where we're on the right track. On the one hand, red turnoff offers an increase in the traffic flow, on the other hand, the prevention of CO2 emissions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, because I always hear of the left half of the empire, that would be dangerous and then all pedestrians would die: Firstly, this will not be the case where a zebra strip is, and secondly, there is the right turn at red already, but you have not yet understood this, because there is the green extra lamp that is already mounted. So, by law, everything is settled, everything is solved. I don't know why you always have to bet against everything. Flexibility in the same sound with certainty: Therefore, there are also corresponding programmes for autonomous driving and e-mobility. [[Abg. Jarolim: Incorrect item on the agenda!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Which is also important to us: No citizen will stay on the track in the current diesel discussion. I think it is quite important to take reasonable measures here and not simply to cut in and not to make sure that people can do their daily care in the countryside. The expansion of Vienna Airport, ladies and gentlemen, is a very, very important concern for us. Of course, we must try to ensure that this airport is not only competitive, but also capable of asserting itself against the co-advisors there is enough in Europe. We will therefore expand the logistics cluster in Austria, thus ensuring 60 000 jobs. Finally, the declaration of intent with the Russian transport minister Sokolow to implement the Russian wide-track project in the context of the Neue Seidenstraße was also an important measure of Federal Minister Hofer. There will be massive investments in our location in the future, there will be a huge increase in jobs. There too, Austria's competitiveness will be ensured in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget in the transport sector not only cleans up the SPÖ piles, but it sets essential impulses for the future. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Transport very much. And one thing is clear: We not only have visions, we also have the plan for implementation. That's the difference to the SPÖ government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26445	Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26469	Mr President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! High house! We have just begun with my favorite theme in the transport sector, namely Hasendorf and similar problems that we have. I believe that this is a fundamental issue that we always have in the area of transport, namely that we focus on central infrastructure. I think the decentralised approach is not always bad. There are quite positive aspects, for example, that you know local preferences better and of course you also know who is responsible for them; that means that at the end of the day you can better account for politicians. Just be honest! – in practice, the whole thing looks different. In practice, it is always the same topic: The one who has the mayor or whatever is on the ground looks at the projects, not at the projects that are most important for the entire infrastructure, not at the fact that we have a good infrastructure system throughout Austria. But I think that should be in the foreground. This is also a lot logical, because in Austria we have relatively high taxes. There is no tax competition in Austria de facto. As mayor, of course, you can only go over this access. You can only put on the lever and say: Hey, let's make a good infrastructure here, because that's what attracts the companies! – This is not sustainable, but it is not long-term, good infrastructure policy. This will cost us at the end of the day – in particular, it should be borne in mind that we are already spending much more than the EU average on infrastructure and transport. Now to the budget: Mr. Minister, I have a little feeling that you are going into prestige projects. It's always this thought of making great promises. No matter if this is the silk road that has been addressed, or the broadband – I come to talk about it even more precisely anyway – there are big projects you announce, but most of them are less behind it or it is not as budgeted as is often said. The freight terminal has already been addressed. They are talking about as many jobs as Innsbruck has inhabitants. That will not be feasible in reality. [[Abg. Neubauer: How do you know that?]] They give of them any flakes and make great announcements that are not sustainable at the end of the day. I believe that this is not a fair policy and not a sustainable policy that we should make, and we will put a stop to such projects. They said in China that Austria will be the first mover in cooperation with China – New Silk Road was of course also a topic. But if you look at the facts, you can see that there are first moves already. 16 European countries, many of them in Eastern and Southern Europe, eleven of them EU members, are already in initiative 16+1, i.e. in an initiative that is already working with China and that keeps in close contact with it. Why do you tell us that we are First Mover when 16 other states have been in an initiative for a long time? [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have addressed broadband development. Yes, I am with you, it is very important and we need to expand the broadband in Austria. There are many problems there – not only Hasendorf, as my colleagues from the last legislative period told me. [[Abg. Hafenecker: But this is important...!]] But we also need to look at why you have more money at your disposal now. This is because in recent years – and this has not been your fault, but very probably the fault of your coalition partner – it simply has not been spent on the funds that were budgeted. Over the last few years, broadband development funds have not been exhausted – everyone who has been involved in the budget knows that – and that is why more resources are now available. I would therefore ask you to take the measures to ensure that these funds are actually used and that they can also be expanded. In the last few weeks, you have also repeatedly talked about the importance of environmental and sustainable infrastructure for you; and then – we have already discussed it in the Committee – you will keep the budget of the only point that is valid, namely the Climate and Energy Fund, Clients, stable. They have been stagnating the budget for the next two years since 2017. That means, real gets the client less money. I don't think that's very sustainable, and that's why you show again that you don't get along with your promises. We will then discuss the ÖBB Framework Plan on Friday. It is very often said that the budget is the policy cast into figures. This may be a bit of a vote, but politics goes on the same way afterwards. I believe that implementation is the important thing that we must not forget. In implementation, we must be very careful to ensure that client policy has no place, that, if applied, power abuse has no place and that symbol politics in particular has no place. All three points, especially the first and last point, I put a little bit in your budget. That is why I am concerned that this is not a sustainable budget, which will also leave a good infrastructure for the next generations, because infrastructure is a very long-term issue, and therefore sustainability is one of the most important points.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26525	The next speaker is Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26550	Mr President. Dear Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! We are now dealing with the transport budget. I think you should write a headline here, too, namely our common goal – and this is also the case in the Government programme again – to create an eco-efficient traffic. What do I mean by that? – This is, of course, the ecological component on the one hand. There's a lot of investment going on. Mr Stöger, Mr Leichfried, as former ministers, you know very well that in the coming years, we are investing more in railway infrastructure than ever before, more than under your respective ministerial authority. I think it would also be to say that and not to speak of cuts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Say the sentences to the end! We are not talking about cuts, but about what is the fact that some projects are being postponed in time so that we can also afford them. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is, I believe, a fair budgetary policy that we need in this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] By saying that we are producing “mobility poverty” – I think you called it – you are afraid. I believe that precisely, Mr President, we are investing in Austria relatively far above the average of the European Union in our transport infrastructure, especially in rail development. I think – you have also contributed to this at the time – that we can be very proud that we are making our contribution – in the sense of climate protection, but also in the sense of promoting public transport for our commuters, for all those who use public transport for their work, and for all those who do not have a car, even those who do not want to have one. We are still on a very, very good path. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It has already been mentioned by Mr Hafenecker: If we did not dampen the investment path that would produce such a mountain of new debts, ladies and gentlemen, we would never create a balanced budget by moving a few projects. [[by hand the height of the mountain]] But this is a top priority for us! Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is also about other modes of transport. It has also been said that we continue to invest a lot in expanding our road network. But what is also very important – also in motorized individual traffic – is that we deal with how different drive technologies continue. This will remain a very exciting discussion. That is why I am very glad that research and development can be found in this budget, i.e. the idea that we are promoting these technologies and then look at which of these drive technologies will actually prevail. Air transport has already been mentioned. It is crucial for Austria as a tourist country. You know that Vienna Airport alone is of great importance to the Eastern Region and creates and secures thousands of jobs. That is why it is also important that we can continue to invest in this infrastructure. But let us not forget the waterway, the Danube, as a forward-looking mode of transport. In this respect, too, the budget reiterates the concept that, together with the European partners – only in this way – we will continue to work on this waterway so that it can really become an additional mode of transport, especially for freight transport. Overall, I think, this is a very good budget in this area. I thank the two ministers for acting responsibly in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26640	Next speaker is Mrs National Councillor Stephanie Cox. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26661	Mr President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Hello to the people in front of the screens! A lot has already been said about traffic, but I would also like to address research here. We discussed in the Committee a little bit about the fact that in the VIT sector – you care a lot about the infrastructure – research also falls. I'll start from the beginning: Research is essential for the economy and the competitiveness of a country. In a country like Austria, the most important raw material is actually its heads. Research now costs money, which is not a secret, but research funding is important and correct for the aforementioned reason, but only if they are used properly. To this end, we have a particular challenge that promotion services are simply opaque. Very rarely can one find out what the results were, and the citizens will not be brought closer to where their tax money is actually flowing, what is happening and what is going on under the rule. We have already addressed the research funding database in the Committee. From your side came: Okay, it's being evaluated! – I think it is very good that you will show and say that you can bring in more transparency. It is not just us as a list or as a person that transparency is important, especially in research and in the funding landscape, that we need more transparency. It is true that there are two solutions from the Council for Research and Technology Development. Firstly, there is proposal number one, namely the integration of all research funding databases into the existing transparency database, and secondly, proposal number two, the construction of a new database, which serves exclusively for the purpose of retrieving relevant data. Let's look at the two things! One is the transparency database. It was not just last year at all when a report from the Court of Auditors came out that it was not really useful in the end, because the countries did not really record something. On the one hand, this may also be due to usability – in the area I come from, it's called usability – that is, perhaps it's the input mask or the fact that you just don't know where and how to enter something, or that it costs too much time. But it is not only that, but of course one must encourage not only people but also organisations to register something to ensure transparency. So on the one hand, we have a 13 million euro project, namely this transparency database, which is not really working right now. Now, I think it's a bit questionable if you want to build on a database and thus ensure more transparency, although the entry doesn't just work, but just doesn't really happen. Of course, I understand the approach to ask how to build additional structures where something is already present, so that you can build something on it and not build an additional new system. However, the approach is easy to question in view of how the transparency database has been implemented so far. Let's get to the second variant: The creation of a database specially designed for this purpose, which only has interfaces with the existing databases, guarantees not only faster implementation, but also lower costs. That is the recommendation of the Council for Research and Technology Development, which has been sent to us by you on the budget request we have made to you. In other words, it would be ensured that the transparency in the Austrian research funding jungle can be removed as quickly as possible and that we can quickly get closer to the goal. In the field of research funding, clearly defined objectives must be measurable. It is important that we not only look at what is being promoted, but also what the results are. That's why my appeal to you is: Please do not build on something just to say that you have another database that you have achieved the goal of building another database! I know this myself from the scene from which I come, in which they say: Yes, I have the product anyway! – It is nice to have a product, but you also have to look at whether it is used, whether it is usable and whether it leads to the goal more transparency. The money should not be thrown around – we have discussed this more often in committee – but it should be well invested. My Appeal It is mainly: Please complete the evaluation process you mentioned in the Committee as soon as possible in order to solve and implement it in practice! [[Abg. Rosary: Yesterday we heard that evaluation does not do anything!]] It would be important for you, Minister Hofer, not only to speed up traffic on the motorways, but also to develop the high-level database and, on the other hand, transparency in our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26698	The Federal Minister Hofer has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26719	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to stress that we have agreed on something within the framework of this coalition, namely that we want to ensure that the tax and tax rate is reduced to about 40 percent. This is a process we are setting up together, and I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for Finance for ensuring that it was possible in the framework of the negotiations on the budget, on the one hand, to ensure that the necessary resources are available, on the other hand, that we agreed not to lose sight of this objective. You all know this: There are new proposals every day, new ideas. Every proposal does not cost much, but yet again a few million, and in the evening one has to realize that one may not achieve the goal one has set. That is why we are particularly careful when it comes to this. I am glad that we have a minister who comes from the economy and has a special eye on it. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as investment in the railways is concerned, I would like to say that it has succeeded in ensuring the highest amount of investment ever invested in the railways in the history of Austria with an amount of EUR 13.5 billion in this framework plan. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is also necessary, because the way in which we move on how traffic will shape in the future will change completely. I know that many have believed that in the future the railway will no longer have the meaning it has today, because autonomous driving will come because you will then sit in the car and be taken anywhere, but the truth is another. The truth is that we cannot cope with the traffic flows that must be handled in the future on the road – despite the investments we make in the road, namely, €8 billion in the next few years. They all know that even in cities away from Vienna, Graz, Linz, Salzburg, there are not only more traffic jams in the periphery of the day; it is becoming more and more difficult to move on by car in these cities. That is why we also need to remember how we support the cities more. In Vienna, it is true that we actually support the construction of subways with 50 percent from federal funds. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] In Graz, Linz, there is no subway in Salzburg, but these cities also need support. I am very pleased that there are, for example, in Graz, but also in Linz, considerations about the construction of a city cable car. These are projects that can be implemented quickly and cost much less than the rails on the road. I am firmly convinced that such projects can also help to solve the transport problems of the future – as part of it. I am now considering, also in discussions with the people responsible in the cities, as well as the federal government can support in these areas. You also know, there was a legitimate criticism that we have said in the field of climate protection that we want to rely more on bicycle traffic, although the federal government is not responsible for cycling on and on its own. So what can we do? – We can offer a platform, we can consider together with the traffic referents how we can carry out a gap. As far as cycling is concerned, the cities are quite well developed in many areas. I was allowed to test it myself yesterday in Vienna. I had a green wave from Josefstadt to the ministry – in this case with the street stepperer – with one exception. However, I note that in the rural area there are often no cycle paths between municipalities or parts of the village, which are less than 5 kilometres apart, and that the bike is not used there because many do not want to ride the bike on the federal road. In this respect, I think we may be able to do something together with the municipalities and the federal states in rural areas, so that cycling can become safer there too and the wheel is more often used. Overall, I am delighted about this increase in investment in the rail sector. We can record a record increase of 50 percent in investment from 2017 to 2021. We now have large projects, large tunnel construction projects, which are being completed. We can thus ensure that we can travel from Vienna to Klagenfurt in 2026 in 2 hours and 40 minutes. This is not my merit, it is the merit of my predecessor, which I would also like to thank very much. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] The silk road has been addressed. I know that there are different opinions as to whether this project will actually be implemented for the benefit of the European Union, for the benefit of Europe or not. I used the term First Mover in this context because it succeeded in signing an agreement that was not quite easy to draw up. There were criticisms of such agreements by the European Union, particularly on the part of France. We have, however, succeeded in finding, together with the staff in the house, a formulation ensuring that the strict directives within the European Union are complied with, but on the other hand, that interest in a strong trade is maintained. The European Union was founded with the idea that countries in close economic ties do not wage war against each other, and that is why I also think that economic exchange with China is beneficial. It is not only about caring products from China to Europe, but also about the fact that products that are manufactured here have a high quality are also given a chance to rise on another market. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also about the following: When companies, when people work together economically, get to know each other personally and understand the culture much better. China is far away, even other countries are far away, but as soon as you are in contact, you can also understand the soul of the other country. This is an important basis for peace and freedom. I have said that the way we move will completely change. Research plays an enormously important role – the research area, including the database and the question of how we set it up, has already been addressed. The most important transport research conference in Europe, the TRA, is currently taking place here in Vienna. We see exactly what technologies will change our everyday lives in the coming years. For autonomous driving we need 5G, broadband expansion. We will move differently through electromobility – whether it will be the lithium-ion battery, whether it will be the fuel cell, will show the future. I think we need hydrogen gas stations in Austria in addition to the electric gas stations. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] We currently have five, but we will need more, because I believe that this is a very important field, not only for the car, but also for the Zillertalbahn and for other projects that will rely on hydrogen. The first daily vehicles are on the market, which are operated with hydrogen; they have 3 kilos of hydrogen on board and can drive 400 kilometers, and only more water vapor comes out of the exhaust. We also need to consider: How can we go into hydrogen production? Can we use the surplus from renewable energies? We have surpluses in the field of renewable energies; on some days when we do not need this electricity, we could use it for electrolysis, with CO2 we could carry out methanization. These are the possibilities we have here in Austria. No other country has such a rich treasure of renewable primary energy sources as we do here in Austria. We have a lot covered by hydropower, we have biomass, we have enough solar hours for solar thermal and photovoltaics, we have geothermal, we have wind power; there is everything we need, so that we can actually implement this change. I believe that investment in research, including in transport research, is of utmost importance. We now have an R&D ratio of 3.14 percent, and the R&D ratio continues to rise, as many companies are also very committed to research and development. Three-quarters of small and medium-sized enterprises are innovative. For us, it will be important for us to make some organizational improvements in this area – you have mentioned it, Mrs Cox – in order to avoid redundancies in order to optimise bureaucratic processes. The most important thing, however, will be the Research Promotion Act. From my point of view, this is so important because companies that carry out research also need safety as regards the funds they can get for their own projects in the next or next year. That is why I believe that the main focus must be on creating a truly smart and good research promotion law. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of aviation, too, the way in which we operate aircraft will change. Professor List and Mag. A few days ago, Kapsch said we need to invest and research technologically neutral. That means, we don't know today which drive will prevail where. Think of the energy-saving lamp that politics has so intensively forced! At the end of the day it was the LED. That is, we must give this space to science, research and really neutral investment in research so that we can develop what we need in the future. In the field of aviation, there are also the first electric aircraft for training purposes with a flight duration of about three quarters of an hour. This means a massive reduction in noise for those who live or work near small airfields. With the fuels – we fly with kerosene – much will also change in the future. Kerosene is not a very high-quality fuel and can be replaced. So: I see the future very optimistic, but I have not always seen it as optimistic as today. What is developing now is a good way to the future. We also see that our children are rethinking. I've mentioned it many times: When I was 18 years old, I had the very, very great desire to have my own car as soon as possible – with my father's money. Today, when I think of my children, this is not the greatest wish you have. My oldest son is 25 and has no car, he has no interest at all in it, he has completely different interests. So that changes completely. I am also convinced that if autonomous driving is more effective, Carsharing will also play an even greater role. Having a car of our own, which was such a great desire for us, will no longer be the great wish for the next generations. I don't think that's necessarily a disadvantage. Let's honestly think about how much we invest in the car and how much the burden is on those who have to invest in a second vehicle as a donor! That's why: If we continue to expand public transport, we invest in research and development! I say it again: I see the future very positively. Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the good cooperation with you, ladies and gentlemen, for the fact that the discussions in the committees have been extremely relevant, with the employees of my house and again with my predecessors, because of course it is so that everything I can now put on is also a performance of my predecessors. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26794	I can welcome the group from the Linzer Technikum to our house at the gallery! (The sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Mr Gerhard Deimek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26818	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The budget chapter on transport, innovation and technology, which is under discussion today, is exciting as it is a very directioning budget chapter. At the beginning, I would like to focus on digitalization. It has already been mentioned today that we still have “old means” – under quotation marks – from the previous period at our disposal. But why is this so and what does that mean for the coming year and for the coming year? The funds have not been collected entirely or as originally planned. Why weren't they picked up? Relationship: Who picked them up and who didn't? Where there were companies everywhere, where there were providers – as it is so well called Neudeutsche – who were able to implement the funds one by one, the funds were collected. The funds have been collected wherever there are national companies that are intensely concerned about how peripheral regions can also be supplied with broadband. Wherever that was not the case, they were picked up too little or not at all. There is no point in making an accusation to the Minister of State or his predecessors, but there is a need to consider what is happening in the federal states, why some are thinking. Mr Hasendorf, Mr Niederösterreich, the colleague mentioned it. Why is there a society in Lower Austria that is concerned about this? Why is there a society in Upper Austria that is concerned about this? – Because the national governments there are aware that they have many peripheral regions that intend to provide them. [[Call the ÖVP:... I don't know!]] If there are national governments that don't care, they have to ask themselves the question of sensuality. You have to think about something, too: We have three major providers who have the opportunity at all to implement these funds and to provide the regions with them. The largest, to which the two smaller ones always blame the slope to the monopoly, has, under quotation marks, “eaten” something in his acquisition of funds, he does not come to work. We also need to think about how we want to deal with it in the future when companies pick up funds that they can't grow at all. And since it is uninteresting whether they can't grow it because they can't work their own share or because they don't get the means to finish it from the owner. It doesn't matter. Since the Federal Minister or his predecessors are to make an accusation, it is not fair that the companies should be hired. Let me say one more word on research on this occasion: We are currently facing a change in mindset. On the one hand, we have new ideas, new technologies, digitalization, and we do not yet know what that means for professional life, what social consequences it has. On the other hand, we still – of course, we are in the middle of life – have the old, existing problems, such as the commuters who need to reach their workplace with the best possible vehicles. It would be unfair to use false conditions to intervene with wrong regulations and punish socially worse-troubled people because they still use old technologies. I am glad that Federal Minister Hofer has already indicated that he is of course promoting new technologies – and he thanked God for the means – but on the other hand looks at no one being treated unjustly, for example on the subject of diesel. I would like to say a word to China: The Federal Minister has said quite correctly that Austria is the First Mover towards China, we have the first binding contract agreements with China, around the Silk Road. We have documents and contracts on this project, which have not yet been implemented in Europe. I am thinking of a number of companies that purchase products from China or export to China. Today, a ship for freight transport takes six weeks, no matter what direction. In addition, additional handling in the port, additional handling if the goods are to be further distributed in Europe, and so on. This goes much cheaper, even faster, simple, logistically simple, despite the railways – or, if wide-tracked, without retraces. I can only say: Mr Federal Minister, hat off in front of what you are planning, and good for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26856	The next item is the speech by Mr Leichfried. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26877	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the house and in front of the shields! There seem to be three phenomena in transport policy: One is expected to be an Austrian specification, namely that in each debate the district of Hasendorf is mentioned. The second is that transport policy is such that one usually reaps what others have sown, and then sows so that others can reap something; the periods are relatively long. [[Abg. Rädler: What you sowed!]] The third is that transport policy has an incredible influence on many other policies and has a significant impact on people's lives. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, she is very, very, very responsible. [[Further call of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It is not just about transporting people, about jobs, about social conditions, about climate protection; all of this is influenced by transport policy and, of course, by investment in transport. Especially public transport is the big answer to many, many problems that are now present. Of course, there must be individual traffic, of course, it will develop differently, especially in motor development, but the apparent, electrified public transport is the condition, and what is being invested there has a massive impact everywhere. You have to say quite openly: Mr Ottenschlager is partly right; yes, there is a lot of investment, but then a little bit of ÖVP retrusion comes again, because it is also true that compared with what the last government has planned to invest by EUR 1.8 billion, ladies and gentlemen were valued. That means: 1.8 billion less for climate protection, 1.8 billion less for transport, 1.8 billion less for quality of life. – This is also fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to address a second point: Mr Federal Minister, you mentioned the big cities in Austria and, I believe, the right conclusion at the beginning. The reason why the federal government invested in the subway in Vienna was that the traffic situation in Vienna had a natural impact on the entire traffic in Austria. This also applies to the large agglomerations now, and I am therefore in favour of the federal government changing legislation in the future – and it is already clear – to ensure that trams in the capitals of the country function better, because that is the backbone of public transport in our capitals. Dear ladies and gentlemen! With the 66 million euros of basket money for the Federal Chancellor, for which Mr. Vice-Chancellor could be expanded in Graz, Linz, in Innsbruck, in such a way that it works better that we have less fine dust, less emissions and better public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] Finally, I would like to mention: It always depends on employees, and we have people in all public transport companies in Austria who work outstandingly, who bring extremely good performance and ensure that public transport works. You, ladies and gentlemen, deserve our all respect and thanks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26941	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e26963	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I can return from the transport agencies to the research agents in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. In the course of the government negotiations, we set ourselves clear objectives as regards the support of entrepreneurs and businesses in themselves. We want to help them to be innovative, we want to create incentives to promote research and development, and at the same time support them from development to market maturity. We have also known how to support companies with the research premium, but also SMEs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, with funding programmes, whether through the FFG, or through the AWS, in their projects, and also with the conditions for creating infrastructure, such as a pilot factory, where we can try out new technologies to find new fields of application. In addition to these objectives, however, we have also known ourselves to become more efficient in the system itself, to reduce bureaucracy, to pool competences. In the past legislative period, this House has, on its own initiative, sent a request to the then Federal Government, on the basis of a report of the Court of Auditors or on the basis of its own considerations, in order to support precisely these measures. These are also found in our government program and are the best way. We have managed in recent years to continuously increase expenditure on research and development. This is also a merit of the previous government, I would also like to say this in the interest of fairness, because I believe that research and development should not be an ideological battlefield, but a common effort that we should all devote ourselves to. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] With this budget, we are taking the next steps to advance research and development in Austria. I would also like to stress that it is a self-interest for us, because, of course, we are also promoting new companies with these investments. We thus create highly qualified jobs. We create more value added in our country, and that is our goal. For me, as a member of the wine sector, from a rural region, it is also important that we set out measures that are also taking place in rural areas, which are developing opportunities there, also in order to close the divide between city and country. One area is broadband development; I call Hasendorf. Hasendorf, however, is only a symptom, it is one of many, numerous rural towns that are under-supplyed in the area of broadband, fast internet. It is about the opportunities to bring future opportunities to the rural regions as well. However, we are also aware that we must start to speed up the development process, that we must create the appropriate framework conditions, whether this year's frequency auction, the adaptation of the telecommunications law or the formulation of future strategies, in order to set the course of future technologies such as 5G from policy. A second point, including research, is the various programmes, such as the creation of the country, an SME package, the support with guarantees or loans, or the protection of one's own ideas through patents. This is a Community contribution from BMVIT and the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where, together, also through support for fresh agencies investing in these support programmes. This is particularly important for small businesses in the country, because it is not always easy to start a business or to develop its business. That's what we're doing. So this is a budget for 2018 and 2019, with which we work well, a basis for positive development and a successful future for Austria, for which Austrians can create.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27024	Next word is reported by Mr Sonja Hammerschmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27045	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! We share the objective of being one of the most competitive nations in the world, we want to be innovation leader, as expressed in your government programme. We are a country without raw materials, it is therefore important to promote the country's intellectual capital. It is important to promote creative and innovative ideas and put them into reality. Three pillars are particularly important for this, you have mentioned it yourself: It's about excellence in basic research. This is very important, but I cannot blame you, Mr Minister, for the constant under-doing of the FWF. On the other hand, it is about applied research and development, and over the past years a set of measures has been developed which has proved to be very successful, which supports the company and also promotes cooperation with universities, with specialist universities. The third pillar is about start-ups and start-ups, and I am talking about technology-oriented innovation-based foundations, because these companies – which show all the studies – are particularly certified that they create many jobs, high-quality jobs, show high innovative strength, focus on international markets and have a very, very high survival rate. The fact is, however, that these foundations are research-based, thus risky and very capital-intensive. That is where I see the task of the public hand to go into intervention. Where market failures exist, it is the task of the public authorities to counter them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last German government has decided for good reason, precisely therefore a start-up package, which was very extensive and broad in its action setting. It amounted to EUR 185 million and additional EUR 100 million in guarantees. Mr. Minister! Research needs, you have mentioned this yourself, framework conditions that are built on reliability, planning and sustainability. A look at the UG 34 shows that, although the budget is still slightly rising in 2019, it is going down in the following years. To my question, where research funding is being removed and how much the reduction will be, you have answered that it is about cuts of 10 million euros per year and you do not yet know exactly what instruments will be affected. To sum up, I have to say that this is not an adequate commitment for applied research in Austria. In this respect, I find it a pity to comfort and wait for the Research Promotion Act. And it's not a visionary budget, I have to say. For this reason, it may also be that the objectives of subheading 34 are formulated in the same way as they are formulated. For the following years, it has already been achieved in recent years. This also shows how little ambitious is planned. Too bad, I would really expect more to support the founding scene in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27094	The next item is the speech by Member Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27115	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Federal Minister Norbert Hofer! High house! I would like to start with two basic points. One finding is that the Republic of Austria has neither any land resources nor a sea connection, i.e. geostrategic, is not particularly well positioned from the point of view. The only asset we have in global competition is our people, our minds. It is extremely important to invest, and this is also happening to a very, very good degree. I'll come back to that later. The second finding: This Federal Government has clear objectives in this context. It is not saved under this Federal Government in security and it is not saved in education, innovation and research. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We are already involved in the input factors, so to speak, in what we are investing in funding and funding in research, and these are very, very high amounts. I am now trying not to bomb you with numbers, but without numbers as far as possible. It is very, very high amounts in international comparison. With the F&E quota, that is, what we are putting into this area, the input, we are in second place in the European Union, only behind Sweden, so we are very, very good. We will also provide additional resources in the coming years, for example through the National Foundation. In the context of indirect research funding, through the research premium, we provide a great deal of resources, which is hundreds of millions of euros. This is also an instrument of location policy, because, of course, in terms of research and innovation, we are very interested in the fact that international, large companies are also located in Austria and are researching here. They do so to a very large extent. It is almost EUR 2 billion that multinational companies in Austria, which, of course, also employ very many Austrian citizens on high-quality jobs, spend on research. So the input, what we're spending, is very fine. However, Federal Minister Hofer and the Federal Government have also recognised that there are improvements there or there. This is in particular about optimising processes, ensuring efficient use of resources, avoiding double and multiple funding, and increasing the reliability of the corresponding support programmes. There are already evaluations, findings and conclusions about the AWS and the FFG. There are also first measures: Concentrating on existing programmes or reducing the very high number of programmes. Further synergies are being searched and also found. The Federal Minister Hofer has already mentioned it, an important project in this legislative period is the Research Promotion Act, in order to give legal certainty in this area as well. I would like to add the following: Also a very important project in this legislative period is the FTI Strategy New, the Post 2020 FTI Strategy, i.e. the Strategy for research, technology and innovation, which will be completed by 2021 at the latest. So it's a lot to do. I would now like to focus on a number of programmes in order to promote a little understanding, because research, technology, innovation is always such an area that is less tangible, on very concrete programmes, which are promoted and pushed by our Federal Government or Federal Minister Hofer: There would be, for example, the Frontrunner programme. Frontrunner companies are niche players, high-tech companies, which are characterised by a particularly high value added, but also by a particularly high risk; they are on the road to the risky international market. The front runner support program will continue. The second programme, which I believe is very important, is: Silicon Austria Labs, this will be a success story. This is a microelectronic cluster, where it has succeeded to get the federal government, the countries, or some countries, not all, and the industry to a table to finance this project together. There is therefore a significant share of funding from industry as well. This will be very successful. Now I come to the field of universities, so to speak, to the bridge between universities and industry in the context of applied research. After all, it's a false belief in me that universities only did basic research. Of course, the technical universities in particular are also doing a considerable amount of applied research, product research, product development et cetera. In this regard, I would like to mention the Bridge programme, which is also being forced by our Federal Minister Norbert Hofer. The aim is to link this applied research with industry, in particular the technical universities, but also spin-offs of the technical universities. I also believe that this project will be a very, very great success. In terms of content, I would like to address an area as an energy speaker, in particular because we have a Federal Minister who has this area at the top of his personal priority list, and I think this is important and correct, namely energy, changeover to renewable energy. Of course, in the field of energy research, BMVIT is a very, very important carrier when it comes to researching. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it, we will not limit ourselves to electromobility, but we should be open to research and science, we should be neutral, technological neutral. The term hydrogen has already fallen, and research in the field of hydrogen, fuel cells should be intensified, because this is a way of getting to grips with the disadvantages of wind energy and solar energy, namely the strong fluctuations, via this buffer, over this storage. What do I want to say? – The focus of our Federal Minister Norbert Hofer is absolutely on these areas, and now it is about implementing these things over the course of the legislative period, and I am very, very good things, that this is also excellent.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27185	Walter Bacher is the next word to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27210	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Federal Minister Hofer! As a cable car with body and soul, I am of course very happy if you want to invest in city cable cars. As some cities prove, cable cars are a highly competitive means of transport in the urban area. – Unfortunately, it is already over again with the joy over the transport budget and the framework plan of the ÖBB 2018–2023. I specifically asked the Committee for investment in Salzburg and was then surprised that it was from the ÖVP that the criticism came, that we should look at the whole thing and not just talk about regions. I think, however, that, as a Member of a federal state, I must very much consider the impact of the budget on the federal state. You, Federal Minister, told me in the Committee that there is no reduction in investment in Salzburg, but a maximum retransmission. If you analyse the budget for the country of Salzburg more precisely, however, you have to realize that there are very few cuts in Salzburg compared to the previous framework plan: Exactly 35.6 million euros will be invested less than planned, at the expense of the people in the federal state of Salzburg. This line runs through the entire budget. Black and blue saves people and not the system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Turquoise Blue!]] This budget is good for short and tight, which will allow 166 additional posts, and this budget is bad for the judicial community, where 40 planning posts are saved. This budget brings short and tight play money of 66 million euros, while there are cuts in the AMS and AUVA. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: You're at the wrong UG! We're at UG 34! That was yesterday!]] This budget is good for black and blue and its secretary-general, but this budget is bad for employees in Austria. [[Abg. Singer: Turquoise and Blue!]] That's how it looks!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27298	Member Theresia Niss has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27319	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear Seers and Seers! Thank God Austria is not a cheap country, but an innovation location. I think we can be proud of that. Our recipe for success has two main ingredients: excellently trained people and research-friendly conditions. The latter also includes the research budget; therefore, the increase in the university budget and the funds for the National Foundation is pleasing. The increase in the research premium to 14 percent has also taken an important step towards bringing research-intensive companies to Austria, and above all to keep them with us, because every job, especially if it is sustainable, is important to us. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In view of the general reduction in funding, the increase in applied research in BMVIT is also welcome. It sees the importance of applied research – I thank the Minister for that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In research, ladies and gentlemen, there are no short-term jobs, such as through action 20 000, but these are highly qualified, respected jobs, but we are not alone in the international fight for these jobs. To that long... We need legal certainty on the one hand, but also long-term planning on the other. Therefore, we need a research funding law to reach a research rate of 3.76 percent in the medium term. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In Austria, however, we also need to consider European research funding, because we are a net profiter. In recent years, Austria has received more than EUR 870 million in funding from the largest transnational research funding programme, Horizon 2020: our universities, our research institutions and our companies. I think that being a net profiter is not so bad, and we should try to get more money out of this framework programme. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We must also remember, however, that we are currently in the process of drawing up the next framework programme, and that, on the one hand, the teaching, on the other hand, will be important for Europe, especially for Austria. We need a budget increase, because in international competition we will only succeed with united forces – cross-border – against players like the USA or China. What is happening in China, ladies and gentlemen, is frightening to people who are at the heart of Europe and should give us real thought to our joint efforts in the field of research. Perhaps a short word on the design of the programme. That's where we should build on our strengths. In addition to excellence in basic research, this is a focus on research in industry and in companies, as they secure our location. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that we can continue to write this success story in the sense of Europe, in the sense of Austria and in the sense of the next generations. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[10:19]] [[10:19:41]] Recovery of the request for the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 para. 5 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27402	I may announce that the request for the establishment of a committee of inquiry in accordance with § 33 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council “on the performance of tasks of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism” of the minority of the establishment according to § 33 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure have been withdrawn. The agenda item 8 of this meeting, which would have been called on tomorrow, is therefore missing. An updated agenda will then be distributed in the meeting room. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a special interest in investment in the state of Salzburg. Apart from investments in broadband, 5G and research, we will implement the following projects in the street sector: On the A 1 West motorway we invest in the extension of the Walserberg/South Rastplatz 3.7 million euros. We invest on the A 1 West motorway at Hagenau, Bergheim West, 6.6 million euros. Also on the West motorway, 23 million euros will be invested in connection with the pan strip release from Wallersee to Salzburg North. 25 million euros will be invested in the repair of the West motorway from the Salzburg Mitte connecting point to the Salzburg Knoten. On the Tauern motorway, 15 million euros will be invested in environmental relief measures, noise protection Reitdorf, as well as 13.1 million euros in the repair of the Pongau knot, Reittunnel, 3.1 million euros in the extension of the Golling West station and 16.3 million euros in noise protection at Sonnberg/Krottendorf. In addition, EUR 12 million will be invested in the renovation of the anchor walls of Hochmais, Frauenegg, Donnergraben, and EUR 31 million in the renovation of the Urstein and Halle terminals and EUR 12.3 million in the renovation of the Pongau knots. Also on the A 10 Tauern motorway, 51 million euros will be invested in the general renewal of Pass Lueg after Werfen, 12 million euros in Rehabilitation Reittunnel–AST Eben, 23.3 million euros in the renovation of Zubringer Bischofen, and at the Reitdorf Altenmarkt connecting point there will also be an investment whose amount is not yet known. - That's to the street area. In the area of rail infrastructure, we invest 507 million euros in Salzburg from 2018 to 2023. New in the framework plan are the construction of the Seekirchen Süd stop and the financing of the new Neumarkt–Köstendorf–Salzburg construction line.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27479	Mr Dietmar Keck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27504	Mr President. Minister! If you look closely at the budget of the UG 41, you can also see where the savings are in this area: Compared to the Federal Financial Framework 2017 to 2020, transport disbursements in the ÖBB Framework are significantly reduced, by 233 million euros in 2018 and by 230 million euros in 2019. These savings relate only to the ÖBB framework plan, ladies and gentlemen. Overall, it will be reduced by around 1.8 billion euros by 2023. What does this reduction mean? – The reduction in the ÖBB expansion plan is exactly the result of the fact that people are being saved and not in the system as we are constantly promised. Remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, is also the disadvantage of the state of Lower Austria with savings of more than 270 million euros. – A slug who thinks evil with it! Everyone should take a picture of themselves, which are the reasons behind it, that so much is saved in Lower Austria. But back to the people who so often forget this government at the meeting of their actions: Considering that, according to an IHS study, 1 billion euros investment in infrastructure is equivalent to the creation and safeguarding of 15,000 jobs, one can count on what means the savings of 1.8 billion euros! This means the possible loss of more than 25,000 jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] 25 000 jobs are most at risk by this policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, what's going on with these figures? 25 000 jobs are threatened by this policy! In return, you have 66 million euros of play money for the chancellor and for the vice chancellor. But apparently these numbers leave everyone cold when I look right in front of me. Apply what you promised to do in the elections! Secure jobs and create Don't get rid of them with these measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27558	Mr Günther Kumpitsch is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27579	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Estimated listeners on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! Mr Stöger, you said: Standing in the reservoir is not what we want. – The tears come to me! I can remind you of the Knoflacher concept you're hoping for. No, no, no, Standing in the reservoir is not what you want, but it is what you practice, every day wherever you rule or where you carry responsibility. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I can only remind you of the fact that you're painting or merging lanes, that traffic lights are made where you're in traffic with red. Yes, and then it says that we have no sense of the environment and we are responsible for it when more emissions are emitted. - No! That's exactly what you're doing through these measures. That's not our policy. With our budget, it will be possible to pursue a transport policy which will ensure efficient, safe and ecological mobility in the next few years. For this purpose, our Minister has already made available EUR 3.82 billion this year. In addition, the financial resources available through the Pre-Law Act under the 2018 ÖBB Framework Plan to 2023 will be added. That's a total of 41 billion euros. This brings the largest investment package for the railways on track that has ever been in Austria, ladies and gentlemen! The basis for our actions remains the target network 2025+. In other words, we will try to create the conditions for the integrated cycle timetable. We are trying to ensure that the capacity for freight transport is particularly possible along the European axes and the sustainable development of existing networks. I would also like to thank you, Mr Minister, for your commitment in India – excuse me – for your commitment in China. [[Abg. Arbitrator: You are the expert!]] This will make transport between the huge country of China and Europe, especially Austria, possible through the wide-track railway. But not only international transport, but also the ÖBB regional railway lines are to be expanded and extended. In this context, I would particularly like to refer to my home country of Styria: There we will electrify the route Jennersdorf–Graz-Ostbahnhof until 2027. The Koralm Railway, including Airport East, continues to be extended, even if in the meantime there are delays due to drive interruptions, which are caused by mountains. We will renew the railway stations Bruck and Graz, we will renew or expand the railway stations Peggau-Deutschfeistritz, Mixnitz-Bärenschützklamm and Gratwein-Gratkorn. For this purpose, EUR 2.7 billion will be available in the framework plan by 2023. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) If we succeed in bringing more traffic from road to rail, that is the best environmental policy we can operate. That's what we're gonna do. We have a budget with which we can now pursue sustainable, reasonable and environmentally friendly transport policy. But in particular we will not do something that you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and the former Greens, prefer to do: We're not going to be the drivers, we're not going to be the commuters, and we're not going to burden the drivers of diesel vehicles with unwarranted taxes.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27628	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27658	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the material discussion in the Committee; unfortunately, I have not been able to make this experience in all the other committees with ministers. It was very gratifying that we were able to discuss your projects. Whatever I would like to congratulate you on: You've negotiated better than Federal Minister Schramböck. This is once good for your ministry and for research, innovation and digitization. My focus in this committee or in this working group is on women in research. It was also refreshing to discuss with you and find that you also don't care how many women work in research or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] - Excuse me? [[Abg. Singer: A good minister!]] That's right. [[Congratulations on Members of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: You have to praise him!]] You promised me, I praised the Minister, and you praised the Minister. All right, all right! [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In any case, it is very gratifying that you continue the programmes and projects of your predecessors, because we also need them. But what we still need, Minister, are new steps. We're stagnating. The rate of women in research and development has stagnated since 2013. There's nothing going on. That is why we are here to discuss what we can still do with you. I think it would be very important, in particular, to discuss with the women and institutions concerned what screws we still have to turn on so that we do not lose women in research and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27724	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27746	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It was really a strange appearance of the members of the club of the dead poets of the former Federal ministers who have been responsible in the transport sector lately and responsible for a budget. For example, the former Federal Minister Stöger comes out here and wonders that 100 000 euros will be sent to the Ministry of Finance from the Asfinag. Did you forget anything? – The two gentlemen know very well that this is about the distributions of the Asfinag. In your era, too. At that time, you still praised what the Asfinag can lead to the League. So I would ask for more truth in this context. But that's the problem. You should be proud of the Asfinag, gentlemen! [[Abg. Stäger: View numbers!]] Look at the numbers! I can tell you the numbers: 2 billion euros will be taken by the toll on the approximately 2 800 kilometres to be managed by the Asfinag, and only in the next two years will 1.4 billion euros be reinvested. Overall, it will be EUR 8 billion by 2022 – you know that when you look at the budget. I think in this respect one can speak of a success model asfinag, that is not to say bad. But the slender step is now program at the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] – Mr Commissioner of the Pilz List! That's where the opposition comes in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Yesterday, a liberal colleague spoke to these piston drivers. To keep it a transport issue, we stay with the engines. [[Abg. Noll: Is it better if you come under the wheels?]] The SPÖ also had its rhetorical suspenders in the last few days, for example the Member's core. But that's not about it! This is not the set up of valley silverstone, which is still present and which is emphasized by the media. No, no, no, That's a conscious rhetoric. This also shows the behaviour of the SPÖ's present-day drive towards its actual voters, who have been lost, and that is why one is offended. I now call you a knowledge of the last days: At the top of the room, we had the budget committee consultations. From there you can go down to Heroes Square, and I did. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] The next day I thought of myself coming back here by car – the subject of traffic: Now I'm going to go into the OSCE and ask if I can go up there, because I can go out. – But there the man of the guard answers me: No, I can't. I would like to draw your attention to this. Please be polite to take note of this! – I say: You're welcome. I'll go all around. But what do you think if you say that I should be polite enough to take note of this? – Then he says: Yesterday as SPÖ voters, I had an experience with Mr. Klubobmann Schieder: He also wanted to go in there, and Mr. Klubobmann Schieder said to me: Don't you know who I am? This is the thinking of the SPÖ: to be just as offended and to display great superiority! – You must not wonder why you have not been elected mayor in Vienna in the absence of a citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27820	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maximilian sub-rainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27841	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! In front of wheelers it was now relatively fine: They praised each other. – I think that may be the case, you don’t have to keep on extending any unkindness to each other. To the transport budget: 3.82 billion euros for 2018, 4 billion euros for 2019, which is not little. It is always just the question of how it is put. Consider the Brenner Base Tunnel project, which is very obvious to me as a Tyrolean. This is a value-added total cost of around 10 million. the euro, the start-up is planned for 2026. The construction project is now frozen in the final effect. The question is: Why is it frozen? – They say: Because of the economy. What is not said is that this project is co-financed, i.e. that the European Commission is co-financing the whole. Already in 2008 and 2013, the European Commission granted funding to TEN funding of around 50 per cent of the investment costs of Phase IIa and 27 per cent and 30 per cent of Phase III by the end of 2015 for both Austria and Italy for the Brenner Base Tunnel. From 2016 to 2019, the European Commission has committed 40 percent of construction work and 50 percent of exploration work from Connecting Europe Facility. So there are agreements with the European Commission by 2019 and beyond. I would see a certain amount of commitment, and the question is: How far has it been discussed with the European Commission when 2018 and 2019 do not comply with these agreements that have been reached? I would like to refer briefly to the EU Accounting Court controller Herics, who meant that in the course of the Brexit there would also be a reduction in funding. – It is known that the fight for these means has already broken out. Herics also goes one step further and literally says: “I would not exclude anything, because in the end many billions of euros are not used effectively here. Everything is open up to a possible infringement process.” My question is simple: What budgetary consequences will ultimately have on you? At what height does it fall? Or: How much higher do the funds have to be budgeted in the future because they are simply shifted? – This is a delay in construction, and it has consequences for the budget and for this long-term history of the Brenner Base Tunnel. Mr Minister, on the one hand, you are talking about moving traffic to the rails, and I really want to say that at this point, you have my full support! – reducing road traffic in terms of climate protection and investing in alternative drive techniques such as hydrogen and the like, for which you really have my support. On the other hand, go here and talk of 140 kilometres on the motorway, toll reliefs in the high-level transport network, freezing national and European really important projects. – This is something that I think somehow neglects the serious access of a biter. In this sense, I would like to see more serious access and more support for the Brenner Base Tunnel. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27899	I welcome members of the New Secondary School from Flow in Tyrol and staff of the Notarial Office from Leoben to our gallery. Welcome here in Parliament! [[General condolences.]] The honourable Member has been informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e27930	Mr President. Dear Federal Minister! More serious access, I believe, is a really very good and pious approach, which one wanted even if the previous ministers were here at the speaker's desk. I'd like to make it clear that we shouldn't do anything bad, it was certainly a lot of good work. It is precisely the effort of the transport policy in Austria was also not bad in recent years; perhaps the successes were not always visible. I would like more serious access to those projects that are now being realized. We should bear in mind that the transport policy projects that were launched at the time – and this has already been mentioned by former Minister Leichtfried – are long-term projects and that we now have a lot to do. But I do not understand your criticism now, I have to say honestly, because if you look at the budget proposal, you will see quite clearly that many of the projects are being implemented, that we have received the volume very well and that we may have found faster, more efficient ways there or there due to the new additions to a more modern policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the sentence: Imagine, you're stuck in traffic jams!, I can only say that's not what we want, that's really ridiculous. Let's look at the traffic situation in Vienna, how it is wanted here, that counterparts are in traffic jams – that's a political goal in Vienna, that's already been revealed – and let's finally look at the entire situation of the city government in Vienna, the billions that are being lowered in the Nord Hospital – so we could build around Vienna a beautiful ring with park-and-ride facilities, so that we would have the best possible access. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But apparently you have a problem with economically successful businesses, otherwise you wouldn't hack around on the success of the Asfinag. We can perfectly implement all road construction and high-speed projects and still have the opportunity to return funds to the budget. I think that's very, very important. When we consider that we spend 13 percent more on ÖBB infrastructure projects, we cannot talk about stopping and saving there. As an example, I would like to mention the Marchegger branch, which is now also preferred in the ÖBB Framework Plan. This route between Vienna and Bratislava is very important for the best possible development of the Central European area. This could be an example in Vienna and perhaps a little further with the lobau tunnel. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The question of freight transport is essential. In the Rail Cargo, however, it is also a matter of ensuring that the loading stations that have been unnecessarily closed over the past few years may be brought back again; especially in the area of logging for the forest, this would bring a lot of truck rides to the rails. I'm asking you to look at this a little bit more. If we are talking about infrastructure and if, as mentioned earlier, it is a problem when too many mayors are talking, I must say that this can only be a problem for such a group that does not like to discuss with the citizens, because the mayor is closest to the citizen and knows what needs prevail. Finally, I should like to give just one example of transport policy: The Tullnerfeld Mitte station on the Westbahn, which has been driven by the mayor of Michelhausen, Mr. Rudolf Friewald, is a lifeline for the whole region and is now developing an entire area ahead of Vienna. You can then get to the state capital or also to the West by public transport. There has been something created for many people and comrades, which would not have been possible without the initiative of the mayor on the ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28001	The next item is Mrs Holzleitner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28022	Mr President. Dear High House! Dear spectators on the gallery and at home! Like speakers before me, I too would like to break a lance for applied research in Austria. I am lucky to be able to support a research group myself and thus get insights into the great performance that the R & D in Austria is constantly providing for Austria. I believe that further strengthening and expanding the funding for research and development are essential for Austria's innovation location – also to go new ways in the fields of energy and sustainability, in order to be a pioneer in what is happening to research, innovation and technology. Also for the coming generations, a healthy environment in Austria should be ensured for the future, but precisely in this area, 34 of the budget breakdown is unfortunately to be criticised, at the very foundation of its objectives. Mr Hammerschmid mentioned it earlier: The impact targets are not just ambitious, but even climate change and resource scarcity have been eroded in the Objective 2. . Especially since yesterday's discussion on the urgent request, we must be aware that climate change is more present than ever. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I don't know if I've missed something, but I think climate change is a fact and still not nearly enough to fight, which is why I absolutely cannot understand this removal of climate change and resource scarcity from the objective of impact. I think it is the wrong step to remove these important, perhaps completely denied realities and cracks of climate change and resource scarcity from the objectives of action, but they are the guide to a further focus. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28059	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28080	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have already talked a lot about research, mobility, transport infrastructure in our country and much about the ÖBB. I would like to deal with Asfinag, the extension of motorways and highways in our country. It has already been mentioned that the Asfinag does not receive any financial grants from the federal government. On the contrary! We receive dividends from her, but the more detailed statements made by Mr Rädler have already been made. The funding of the Asfinag takes place through the tolls which it has collected, which were and were EUR 1.9 billion in 2016, and it also finances itself through the capital market in the form of bonds, in particular investment. In order to make this financing as cost-effective as possible, the Federal Government assumes liability and these liabilities amounted to €9.7 billion at the end of 2017. Note that the road length of the Asfinag, which is a total of 2,200 kilometres, and to make this road network as safe and as fast as possible, 164 tunnels with a tube length of 383 kg were built. meter and 5 192 bridges built. This – you can already say – is an Austrian specification and, of course, is a special challenge, and this challenge, ladies and gentlemen, is taking care of 2 800 employees of the Asfinag, who guarantee the smoothest possible use of this high-quality road network. – At this point, all of them have a special thanks for this valuable work in our country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Framework planning for the years 2018 to 2023 provides for an investment volume of 7.8 billion euros. For the maintenance and construction of the road network, this means EUR 1 072 million for 2018 and EUR 1.4 billion for 2019, with around 60 percent of new construction projects and 40 percent of construction maintenance. I can list a few projects: The S7, the Fürstenfelder Nachrichtstraße, for example, the Murtal expressway or the Vienna outer ring expressway, the Arlberg express road or the Inntal motorway in Tirol are built or expanded. As the Upper Austrian, I am of course particularly pleased that some of the above Austrian projects are also included in this investment programme. I am thinking of the Linzer Westring or the Mühlkreis motorway, especially the Voestbrücke. Ladies and gentlemen! We can be proud of the performance of Asfinag, and we also have an investment programme that will help to improve our road network in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28131	The next item is Mrs Erasim's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28153	High house! Appreciate spectators here at the gallery and at home in front of the screens! As Members of the Weinviertel, I would like to address the savings already mentioned by Mr Keck in the ÖBB framework plan for the Federal State of Lower Austria. 270 million euros in planned cuts in the investment volume by the government meet our federal state, a federal country of commuters, especially strong, as the Lower Austrians depend on public transport every day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Minister! They always speak of shifts, but in truth they are about cuts; everything else is beautiful, flowery words that move reality a little bit. I come from a region in which there are communities of which around 90 percent of the employees have to compensate, and to declare that it is not a reduction if you move projects, but do not increase the investment volume, that is a mockery. Minister! You will probably lead the projects that can also be done in the planned time, which we feel is very good as a social-democratic parliamentary group, but I would like to mention the projects in which there are cuts and shifts: at the line Wiener Neustadt–Loipersdorf, the Ebenfurth loop, the Süßenbrunn–Bernhardsthal line or the electrification, adaptation of the Herzogenburg–Krems route. All of this means a shift in improved quality of life for the people in the region. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But what surprises me very much and also a little annoyed me is that before the last Lower Austrian country election, Lower Austrian ÖVP country politicians went up and downhill and made promises in every district, which may not come all. If you look at the framework plan, you have to realize that, unfortunately, there is nothing to be found about most of these promises: for example, nothing about the extension of the Franz-Josefs railway or the necessary crossing stations of the S 2 on the route Wolkersdorf–Laa a.d. Thaya. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I find that very, very sad that it is always promised and then, when it comes to making nails with heads, nothing is done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The expansion of public transport is a key element of a forward-looking and well-being policy, and as a social-democratic parliamentary group we have always taken care of it and will continue to ensure that we have sustainable offers for counterparts in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28216	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. -
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28237	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the 2018/2019 budget today. The aim is to establish good policy for the people of the country, and this budget, I believe, is best suited for it. The goal is not to spend more than we take from 2019 onwards, and that certainly means a challenge for the future. When we talk about the future, we also talk about digitization. There is again a great opportunity, not only for the people of the country, but also for the government, to create appropriate framework conditions so that people in this country, youth and the economy can have the ideal conditions and thus start something. Therefore, the broadband offensive is quite, very important, and with broadband billions there are still several hundred million euros available for the next few years. This broadband billion means tomorrow's jobs, enabling investment in the future. I should like to thank the Minister very much for this, but I have a legitimate wish: In Salzburg we are very well supplied with coax cables, but all experts say that the required bandwidths for the transport of data rates over 100 Mbit/s can only be ensured in the long run by fiber optics. In the future, therefore, the state of Salzburg has a high investment requirement in a good network of glass fibres, but is represented by only 1.6 percent of the funds in the medium distribution. Head of State Haslauer has already submitted to your predecessors Leichtfried and Stöger a proposal that all areas not yet supplied with more than 100 Mbit/s should be designated as assisted areas and that the allocation of funds should also be adjusted accordingly. We need equal opportunities for people in rural areas, and I should like to thank you, Mr Minister, in advance for changing this. Thanks also to the head of state Haslauer for this advance in the sense of equal opportunities for young people also in Salzburg!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28280	Mr Rosenberger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28319	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens at home! High house! I should like to highlight an element of research funding, which is very important for Austria's economic development, namely that of cooperation between enterprises and research institutions, and I deliberately mention small and medium-sized enterprises, which are established but which cannot afford major research and development departments. How does the system work? – A modern, forward-looking project idea is formulated, i.e. an autonomous delivery system in remote regions, and what then comes is a very important area, namely that the funds be allocated in competition and thus only the best projects are promoted. What is expected? – The development of licenses, patents, modern, innovative products and services. This rail should be expanded in the future; it will also be expanded in this budget. More resources are being provided for this area so that the centres of competence, for example Comet, can be used, or the basic programmes can continue to be operated offensively. Furthermore, the research premium of around 560 million euros is at a record level, which supports the private initiative of enterprises in this sector and thus also the research quota, which comes not only from the public sector but also from the enterprises. Thank you to all those who work in these companies, in the research organisations. They work forward-looking and sustainable, and in this sense we have a good budget in this area, which strengthens Austria's innovation and economic location.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28353	Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28374	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! The fast completion of the Brenner Base Tunnel is vital for Tyrol. Already today, the Tyrolean motorways are regularly blocked by the transitlawine. More and more often it happens that one manages only with effort and need to get off the highway; the gaps between the truck columns are getting smaller and smaller. The local transporters have difficulty and need to come to their construction sites and to their customers; the right track is taken by truck traffic, transit traffic. As a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, I am delighted that the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel remains a top priority in the new ÖBB Framework Plan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The base tunnel, when it is opened in 2027, will lead to an enormous relief on the Brenner Route. However, for the full capacity of the Brenner Base Tunnel to be used, it is essential that the access lines in Italy and Bavaria be extended in time and adapted to the increased volume. I cannot understand that Germany is slowing down this transit route, which is so important to the German economy. The completion of the runway has now apparently been postponed to 2040. Ladies and gentlemen, further delays are not acceptable in the run-by. Tirol suffocates in traffic. I hope that there will be a rethinking of the new German Federal Government and that the meaning of the Brenner Route will be recognized for the entire European transit traffic. Mr Minister, thank you in advance for your support! – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28419	Mrs Jachs has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28441	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students at the gallery! Research, innovation and digitalisation are future topics, and the budget is also a future budget for research. We will invest more in research, and this is also important and correct, because Austria will continue to be an attractive economic location. Of course, we want to expand it, because we want to become an innovation leader. Our units receive 9.5 percent more budget. Our professional universities and our non-university research institutions will also receive more budgets. For example, I would like to highlight the Austrian Academy of Sciences. The ÖAW was founded in 1847 and is a very important research institution not only because of its age, but also because of its 770 members. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] About 1,600 employees are carrying out basic research there, and 363 million euros are available for them over the next two years. This means an increase of 8 percent over the whole period of the next two years. The budgetary situation is therefore very positive in principle, and the funding for young scientists will not be stopped. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Independent research needs appropriate framework conditions. We will work for this, and we are all looking forward to receiving awards for our top researchers made in Austria soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28487	Next speaker: Mr Christoph Stark. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28511	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear guests in the gallery and in the virtual room! Ladies and gentlemen! It's been said a lot. I can repeat here and today in order to underline it and also to stress the importance of this issue once again that research and digitalisation are the future topics of the next years, which we will address in addition to other equally important areas, and I should like to remind you of what Mr Kassager said, our strength is primarily human capital, because we cannot score internationally with raw materials and in other areas. There are good news about this, but there are also challenges. The good news: In the field of research we are on a very good foundation. With R & D expenditure of 3.1 percent of GDP, Austria is outstanding and research and development expenditure will increase by 3.8% this year. I am particularly pleased to note that the research rate in Styria is 5.14 percent. That's what we're really in the ranking, far ahead. Furthermore, the commitment to the research premium as an essential site advantage is important: For 100 euro invested, there is 14 Euro premium. This is a clear signal for new jobs. But now to the challenges: There are already very good developments in digitization, initiated by Minister Schramböck, for example in reducing bureaucracy and increasing the efficiency of the funding stations – keyword One-Stop-Shop – and the research rate is constantly being increased, and reforming and implementing the federal FTI strategy is being implemented. So we are on the road well in terms of digitalization, but we must not forget that we are taking people with us. We have a huge need for training so that people who are not particularly digitalised do not miss the connection. In terms of teaching, in terms of older people who need to acquire skills to follow digitization, we face great challenges. We also need – and I must stress this once again, it has been said several times today – a comprehensive broadband supply in the regional areas, and this, ladies and gentlemen, must become a state task number one in digitization. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28557	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Peter Weidinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28581	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear listeners! Dear listeners! Love See you at home! Ladies and gentlemen! Research is really cool. – So it was my niece, who is eight years old, after she joined the Long Night of Research in Klagenfurt last Friday. Ladies and gentlemen! A good policy is that it provides a good budget, with which it saves, not for its own purpose, but for the creation of spaces so that you can invest in exactly this feeling of life. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now the question is: How do you keep this enthusiasm, this curiosity on the rise? Where did this come from? – The answer is easy: Man is interested in taking new ways to do new things. It is a European achievement to have the ability to understand that things are being developed further, innovation, new ideas, new services, new goods are being produced. Ladies and gentlemen! This has also led us to the invention of book printing and to the description of the way of digitization. Now it is up to us that we continue to share this enthusiasm, this childish curiosity also in our society. hold and anchor positively. How do we do that? – The answers are given quickly: first of all, promote everything that strengthens curiosity, and second, lessen everything that inhibits this curiosity as such. Silicon Austria is a merger of companies – I am thinking of AVL in Graz, Cisc Semiconductor in Klagenfurt or Ortner Reinraumtechnik in Villach – working together, in collaborations, to find sustainable solutions in the areas of climate change, mobility or energy efficiency. More money is now being used to support the private sector, research is being carried out in the enterprises, new jobs are being created, and researchers – nationally and internationally – are staying in Austria or coming to Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, the second aspect, which is important if you want to do more to keep the curiosity at the corner, is to reduce what you oppose. It is about the mental attitude to take a positive approach to things, to be less mysterious, to have more pioneer spirit, to be less narrow and more open, to pursue less old politics and to have more courage to change. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, all this is done with this budget, and that is why research is cool again. I am also looking for the opposition representatives: Give yourself a back and we agree together, especially with regard to this chapter of research, so that we can work together to lead Austria back to the top!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28638	Next speaker: Mr Dominik Schrott. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28663	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to extend my warm welcome to the New Secondary School from Flow, from my constituency, here in the House. [[General condolences.]] The heart of a state is its infrastructure. It is therefore very welcome that Finance Minister Löger, together with infrastructure minister Hofer, has given a clear financial perspective in the field of transport and innovation: no infrastructure on pump and priority for all those projects that are both technically and legally feasible and meaningful. Ladies and gentlemen! Transport networks are, as we know, life veins. As a Tyrolean, I know only too well that the expansion and the safeguarding of traffic routes are more than decisive for our quality of life. More and more traffic, whether on the rail or on the road, presents us with special challenges. Two brief points: In order to get people off the road as much as possible, we need to put road and rail together intelligently. For this purpose, 227 million euros are secured in the budget. My colleagues from Tyrol have already mentioned the century project Brennerbasistunnel. It cannot be that we Austrians are going ahead again as model students and our neighbours Italy and Germany are not complying with the international agreements. We cannot accept that, and we must not let that happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, we are committed to a strong public transport supply. We must not forget that people in rural regions in particular need the car regularly for work or for excursions. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Investment in our life lines is extremely important for the economic location and for job security. The budget includes the level of funding and also allows sufficient scope for necessary and sensible projects, with the aim of making mobility manageable and promoting throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28717	In view of the fact that I am no longer able to speak on this matter, this subject is being dealt with. [[11:12:04]] UG 14: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28738	We therefore come to the negotiation of sub-division 14: Military affairs. I welcome Mr Kunasek and Mr Fuchs. Mr Rudolf Plessl was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28766	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! As SPÖ's interlocutors, I can first analyse this budget, which is available for decision-making here. I've been thinking for a long time about how to illustrate these numbers with a picture that shows how the whole thing went. The self-proclaimed security party will surely have taken its armored vehicle to the EIA in order to carry out the budgetary negotiations on security. Just when the negotiations have been completed and they are going on again, the so-called budget is the worst, and they insist that the necessary budget resources are not available in this area. [[Abg. New builder: bad comparison!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, and now we are considering: Who's to blame? Who is to blame for the lack of budget for the country's defence department? It is thought whether perhaps Commander is guilty of culprit or Navigator Kickl or perhaps another person who is sitting with them in the vehicle. [[Abg. Listen: Plessl!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:The comrades of Plessl!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also know from the experience of recent years that budget negotiations for the Austrian federal army with an ÖVP minister are not easy. It's known. In 2015, we took a common approach to provide the Austrian Federal Government with the budget necessary to enable it to carry out the tasks we have decided on. However, if I have the first budget speech by the Minister of Finance – the Minister of Finance made a lot of notes during the speeches – I have to say that the word "land defence" has not occurred at all, no more than the words of Mr Amon yesterday, who only informed him that security is important to him and that the interior area must have budget. [[Abg. Hammer: That was the inner debate!]] It is precisely in this area that he has subsequently mentioned education and research, but the word national defence has not happened. Nor do I agree with my colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ that they have been involved in the issue, but this budget is far away from what is necessary, so that the necessary tasks can also be fulfilled, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Before the last National Council election, there were several statements from the FPÖ: Kassinger, Bösch and so on – still spoke of at least 1 percent. It was even reported in the “Kronen Zeitung” on November 28th: ‘Fix, according to FPÖ negotiators, is also the massive increase in funds: The defense budget will increase to EUR 3,139 billion in three steps from currently EUR 2,072 billion (which is 0.66 percent of the gross domestic product) to EUR 3,139 billion, i.e. one percent of GDP." That was the call for the government negotiations. What happened? – Much less! We are at 0.6 percent of GDP, far away from what you have called for, ladies and gentlemen. That means you fell down! They have fallen into disrepute and do not provide sufficient budget resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would also like to mention some examples of how important it would be to make the necessary resources available on a budget basis. Foreign operations: 1 100 people – ladies and gentlemen – would be intended for this area, with September 2017, 1 032 soldiers were still in foreign service. They carry out peacekeeping efforts, important measures, but with deadline 4.4. In 2018 it is only more than 874 ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neubauer: (to the flashing lamb on the speaker’s console) “If you’re right or not, tell you the light!”]] I must address a sentence to the government groups in this regard: If you want to change that, if you do not legally guarantee that 1 100 people are available, you must also make such requests, because the decision to make at least 1 100 people available – without Battle Groups and Others – has been made here in Parliament. However, I would also like to take responsibility for the former Foreign Minister and current Federal Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen. ==References== In December 2017, he stated to the EU Council that he would also like to participate in this field in Pesco, permanent cooperation at European level. There is a sense of will, he has given it on behalf of the government there, and there is also a need to fulfil certain framework conditions, which have also been subdivided by the persons acting at that time. One of them is to continuously increase the defense budget. – That's missing once. When you look at this: 2022 we come to 0.5 percent rather than close to 1 percent. Investment expenditure is to be increased to 20 percent of the budget, defense research and technology towards 2 percent: We are far from the order of magnitude for which – even by the current Chancellor – promises have been made, ladies and gentlemen, and this must also be held. Finally, a few words on the organisation plan, which has already been addressed several times: It was said he wasn't finished. – That’s not true! This organisation plan was completed by the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of State Defense at the end of 2017, and it is also the basis for the budget talks to be conducted. It is possible to raise the personnel costs, operating costs and infrastructure costs due to this planned structure, in order to create and provide resources for Miliz, Cyberdefence and so on. But this has not been done. Just going here and saying that is now being exposed is not the right way. Many colleagues from the Federal Army are now unsure, and they have not deserved this because they carry out proper efforts, are also very much in demand abroad and ensure that we have a good standing in the European Union and worldwide. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28871	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28896	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Plessl, I fully agree with you on the strengthening of the importance of national defence. We must be aware that when we talk about the security of the Republic, it must be not only about the Ministry of the Interior, but also about the Ministry of Defence. The Republic has two swords to make safety, and it has to ensure that both swords are sharp. – I fully agree with you. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Plessl.]] This Federal Government, with the two budgets for 2018 and 2019, has continued the reconstruction movement that you have addressed in 2015 following this all-party proposal, which we have made here in the House. It can ensure that these two budgets continue to build up the Austrian federal army. We will have a plus of about 181 million euros in both years, we will have a plus of 112 million euros in the current year and a plus of 69 million euros in 2019. We will be able to carry out a variety of new purchases, and we will also be able to continue the reduction of investment that has accompanied us for many years. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] However, I agree that we do not have a solution from 2020 onwards, and I also agree that, with regard to the two budget years we are negotiating, we have, of course, achieved more resources – with the Ministry of Finance, but also with the overall government policy. However, I would draw attention to the fact that this government has set itself a clear objective in budgetary questions, namely not to make new debts, even to have a plus in front of the budget figures next year. It's easy to accept. However, we also need to make it clear, and I say this in all clarity, Mr Finanzminister, that we will need new solutions from the year 2020, in which we will succeed in some 2.5 billion euros for the Austrian army. We need new solutions, and we will not forget that we will try to move this figure towards 3 billion euros. That this is an ambitious goal, I know, but that in these efforts we must not let down is a matter of course for me. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must, Mr Federal Minister, give the Austrian federal army a regular budget to cover three areas: personnel on the one hand, operation and maintenance on the other. In the case of special purchases – and these are usually more expenditure in the military field, which will not only be made for a year, but usually for many years, perhaps even for decades – and for the continued reduction of investment, we will need special investment, Mr Federal Minister, and that is why we will be in the context of the The Federal Government, but also within the framework of policy, continues to fight security. This government has declared that it will not save on education and security, and this promise will be met by this Federal Government. We need to be clear that security is certainly not everything – security does not mean everything, there are many other areas to which the budget will be reached – but it must also be clear to us that everything else is safe in one country. If we cannot guarantee security, then all other areas of policy are secondary issues. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It must be our goal to be able to prevent situations, as it has brought in 2015, in the future, and to prevent them, ladies and gentlemen, an Austrian federal army, which is functioning, which is sufficiently budgetary and which can also develop, towards a modern army. That is why we can say that the two budgets for 2018 and 2019 are further great steps in this development towards a modern army, but we will have to take care – and if there is a joint effort by all political groups here, I should be right to ensure this further development. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e28971	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. [[Calls from the gallery.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to wait a moment. [[A visitor is guided by folders from the gallery.]] - Thank you many times. We continue in the debate. Mr deputies, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29007	Madam President. Highly esteemed ministers on the government bank! High House – when it came back to rest! Dear guests and visitors to the gallery and representatives of the Austrian federal army! If you look at this budget, you have to say honestly, it is heartbreaking, Mr Minister, but not in the positive sense, but, quite honestly, in the negative sense. Actually, tears of grief come to me when I look at this budget. They have set themselves relatively high targets in the government programme, some of which I agree with, others not; but the fact is that we cannot achieve almost all these objectives, in particular those that are budgetaryly effective, with this budget. Mr Bösch spoke of a forward-looking budget that will bring the army to a modern standard. How do we want to bring the Austrian Federal Army to the state-of-the-art standard if we have the situation that we cannot hold the current state, the state of 2016/2017? We all know here in the house that we would have needed 300 million euros more to continue the Austrian federal army on the level as it has been before. We have more than 60 million euros this year – it just doesn't work out. I don't know how You want to take this money and how you want to achieve this standard you're talking about. They have promised an increase in the wages of basic defence workers in the government programme. – This is not possible with this budget, so: The aim is not achieved. You have been talking more often about your safety islands lighthouse project, you have said in the committee – about – the Austrian and Austrian We expect that we can provide such security islands. But now we have the situation that we have no money for it, and you also know that the infrastructure in the barracks is currently not producing these security islands. Why are you housed with a project that we know is not feasible and not budgetary? They have even answered us to a budget request that no money is explicitly provided for security islands and that would only be possible if we resolve the budget commitment. I wonder what we are deciding a law for today if the Minister has already announced that we will not comply with the budget and that we will have to resolve the budget commitment in order to implement projects that you have forced. As one of the central election promises, you have repeatedly addressed the security of the external borders and said that it is a matter of heart to you that no more refugees come to us. – No cent in your budget is intended to secure the external borders. The increase in the number of foreign soldiers – 1,500 – is the aim of the government programme. We currently stand at 900, which are budgeted, and you want to arrive at a total of 1 100 with the EU Battlegroups. – Goal clearly not achieved! You have – and this has already been mentioned – 1 per cent of GDP as a goal, you personally, and FPÖ has been collaborating over and over again, 1 per cent has already been fixed and this is an important goal. Where are we? We now stand at 0.6 percent, and in the long-term plan, when we look at what the Minister of Finance has said to us, we are heading 0.5 percent. So we're far away from your goal, we're far away from your election promise. I don't know why you're selling this as a great result. You also have long-term planning in your government programme. They want to create long-term planning on financial issues and also on human issues. – I think this is great, only with special budgets and special shames that you want to sell us there, the German army has no long-term planning. How do you plan if you don't know if you suddenly get 2 billion euros tomorrow or the like? These special budgets therefore do not lead to long-term planning, and therefore this objective was clearly not achieved either. Mr Minister, I also told you in committee that I do not blame you on it alone. I know you were in a difficult situation. They were, as they were heard in the media, just before the conclusion of the negotiations, their place of business was one of the last, and they were probably pulled a bit far from their own party, but also in particular from the coalition partner, the security party ÖVP. I understand that this is not a simple situation for you, but nevertheless this budget is not a success for you, it is a clear failure, and a real disaster for the Austrian army in the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29063	Next, Mr Magistrate. Michael Hammerzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29087	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Minister of Defence! Mr State Secretary! I am allowed to greet a group of young ÖVP Styria in advance of the gallery; Peter Wurm, who was previously negative, is not part of this group. Welcome! [[I would like to congratulate the ÖVP and the representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government has set itself the goal of clearly expanding the focus on security. It has also been said in several speeches that in the field of education and security, more investment is not saved, but more. It will invest more in all areas of security, in the field of internal security and also in the field of national defence. Mr Plessl, if you accuse my colleague Amon of not saying anything about national defence in the chapter of internal security, I could say with the same argument: [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] They have not said anything about social security in the Security/Land defence chapter! So that's the thing! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the EIA, security is comprehensive, internal security and military national defence. It is quite simple, and one should deal with the facts and less with allegations or expectations; Fact is simple and simple: There will be more money for national defence in the years 2018 and 2019. There will be no savings, and not at all with the staff, where the post-retirements are also carried out accordingly, not as in other areas of administration, where not all posts are re-occupied. All of this is done in the area of national defence. Colleagues from the SPÖ! If you make yourself here and say that the budgets 2018 and 2019 for the state defense are too low or not enough, then I would like to say: In autumn last year, there was a National Council election with the result of a new government, one year before the original election date. If the government had continued to exist, there would have been EUR 112 million less under the federal financial framework for 2018. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] So the Doskozil years you so praised – which would have been the case for 2018 – would have meant 112 million euros less for the national defense. [[Abg. Listen:... Doskozil...!]] The budget we now have is clearly preferable to me, because it is much more. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Bösch has already mentioned the figures: We planned more than 181 million euros in 2018 and 2019 than in the Federal Financial Framework under Doskozil, which is a significant share. There will also be a leap in the outlook for 2020, so the budget will increase to EUR 2.4 billion in 2020 due to the overlap of various special investment packages. From 2021/2022 on, of course, it is about continuing the upward trend of the Austrian federal army. I would like to thank you for this, because there is a clear statement from the Minister of Finance that there will be more money for national defence from 2020 onwards, especially in the field of special investment packages, on the subject of airspace surveillance, helicopters, mobility, militias. It is quite clear that the upward trend we decided here in Parliament in 2015 can be continued, investment can be reduced, the barracks infrastructure can be improved, and we can continue with these figures in line with this common path that we have taken here. Before, it was also right what was in the federal financial framework, and the way has also been followed; now there is more, so this path is definitely assured. I think we can make important investments in protected mobility, improvement of man equipment, barracks infrastructure and militia. The exercise days are maintained accordingly, also in the area of militia, which was very important to us especially in the government programme. So there can be no talk of savings or cuts. More money will be invested in military national defence; the road will continue there, it will continue upward. We will try to strengthen this upward trend here in Parliament, also as a speaker, and it can definitely continue with the present double budget 2018/2019. We should be happy about this because it is more – and more is now again! – and building on it, we should shape the future in the sense of the security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29166	Next speaker: Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29187	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! In November 2017, the chairman of the National Defense Committee, Mr Bösch, in his role as FPÖ coalition negotiator, told the “standard” that it urgently needed an increase in the military budget to around 1 percent of GDP or an increase of 3.5 billion euros. In his opinion, the German army was “on the ground as regards equipment, personnel, the condition of the barracks, equipment. ” According to colleagues Bösch of the FPÖ, if one were to prevent better funding, one would send the federal army to the “free case. ” The fact that Mr Bösch is not so far away from this is not only confirming the many servants of the Federal Government who, due to the partly unacceptable state of affairs, have turned to the Parliamentary Federal Commission, but even General Chief of Staff Commenda, who at the same time also warns of an international threat situation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] So one might think that the government has arrived that there is an urgent need for action in the area of national defence, but a look at this double budget, a look at the reality of the budget 2018/2019 already provides some disappointment. In the Federal Estimate, in the result estimate, the defense budget will be spent with 2.25 billion in 2018 and 2.28 billion in 2019. As a percentage of GDP measured – as a percentage of GDP, to stress this once again – this means, according to statistics Austria, a fall in the national defence budget from 0.58 to 0.57 percent of GDP, according to the Wifo. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Höbart.]] We are thus far from the self-evident goal of making 1 per cent of GDP or 3.5 billion euros available to the Federal Army. Yes, and if we take a look at the Federal Financial Framework Act 2018 until 2021 and 2019 until 2022, this, according to the analysis of Parliament's budget service, even shows a development below the inflation rate at minus 0.7 percent. It is shocking figures that are on the table here and that we are put on the table, and they are likely to cause some members of the armed forces to reflect and raise doubts as to whether they have chosen the right profession. The budgetary appreciation, the public appreciation expressed in the budget, is at least not available to the extent that the members of our military forces actually deserved it. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] In order to perhaps save one or another and to follow up on Mr Bösch's statement: It would be important for me not to send the Federal Army into free circulation, so we have prepared a request with which we would particularly like to address the legitimate concerns of our recruits. These currently receive only 321 euros per month, a ridiculously small amount below the poverty threshold in Austria. Major parts of our army can This is why it is called Working Poor. As if this were not to be surpassed in perversion, it is precisely these people and these young people who do nothing less than use their lives for our safety. There is therefore an urgent need for action, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, agree! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[11:37]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29349	The motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. President. — The debate is closed. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29374	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate viewers! I'm very glad after a three-year break back here in the high house to you Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my time as the spokesperson of my group, I have already experienced other budget debates and debates on the subject of the Federal Government here in the House. That is why I am pleased – and I am now including all the political groups – that, in the context of the committee negotiations, I think, very open, very transparent and also very constructive negotiations, we have also exchanged with each other; therefore, thanks to the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ, but also to the others who – when discussing the problem, some things have been missed – are also constructively involved here. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian federal army – you know this and the Austrians know this too – is doing a great deal: whether this is in the field of domestic operations, where we are currently in operation, at this hour with around 900 men on the border, or here in Vienna, too; whether, as yesterday and yesterday, we are again in a disaster situation in Styria, where the German army is always present when it comes to providing protection and assistance, when others are no longer able; or, of course, also in the context of our international commitments, which we of course, Mr Plessl, will also carry out in the future – we had the pleasure of being together in Lebanon. I believe that we also have a responsibility to ensure that Austria enjoys great appreciation in the international connex, even in the future. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In all these tasks that I have now listed, we must never forget: There is the constitutional mandate of the military state defense, and I believe that it is therefore also important to stress that this constitutional mandate must clearly also be a task for the political leadership in this area and that it is all our duty to ensure appropriate framework conditions in these areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to be in the history of the federal army of recent years and decades, you all know, a saving course has hunted the other. We have experienced budget decisions, because of which we had the most massive cuts in the service, because of which we have deleted exercises, because it was no longer possible to maintain a high level of training, but of course we – and that is why I would like to say a great thank you to the soldiers today – have been able to carry out all our orders to the full satisfaction of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let's not think about it: Of course, this savings rate in recent years and decades has brought about a very, very large investment stock, for example in the field of mobility, I would like to make a point in the area of vehicles – but I would like to make one point: I was in St. Michael in 1995 in the then hunter regiment 10 and we were already in the military service with bus companies at that time, because we already lacked the transport capacities of the hunter force at that time – in the protected mobility, in the equipment and equipment of our military soldiers, in the infrastructure that has already been addressed, with about 50 percent of our properties having a medium or substantial use, and also in the personnel sector. In this regard, I cannot right now, Mrs Holzinger, as follows: There are no or little considerations of soldiers – I hope – going to whether they have the right profession, but thank God for a movement forward. We only removed 600 new officers a few weeks ago, but this is nevertheless a clear task for us to deal with these levels of personnel accordingly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this has already been with the lookback. I have not done anything to embarrass the abuses caused by my predecessors, but I want to change them to something positive, to ensure security, to deal with this investment and, of course, to continue the appeal of the basic defence service. With this in mind, we Austrians and Austrians in 2013 thank God for the right decision to maintain the obligation of military service, but with it a clear mission is also to us to proceed to politics to carry out this attraction accordingly. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! The figures have already been mentioned by previous speakers, but we cannot talk about a savings rate at this budget. In 2018, we have a total of 112 million euros more than was foreseen under Minister Doskozil in the 2018 financial framework, and also measured by the success of what he has spent, still amounting to 60 million euros, which is now to be used accordingly with priority series. The same applies to 2019, but of course there is – and you have to be self-critical – from 2021 onwards, when this supposed decline becomes visible in the budget, which is accompanied by the resulting special packages in the presentation, the need to provide appropriate solutions in the context of political processes, together with the Minister of Finance, with the coalition partner, but of course here in Parliament, in the House. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What are we doing? What are we doing in the next two years to deal with the investment situation? – I would just like to list a few areas: In the area of mobility, where I think we still have a lot of air up, 34 new Pandur evolution runs, 32 Hägglunds – I didn't know them either, these are special vehicles for mountain use –, 58 Dingos, 500 commercial cars that are urgently needed to get from A to B, and approximately 150 5 tons trucks to move forward in the field of logistics. In total, we are investing 108 million euros in mobility over the next two years. But we are also investing, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of man equipment. Why is this man’s equipment so important? – It was only a few weeks ago that the sad incident occurred, in which a guard soldier was attacked in the context of the assistance mission – embassy security – in front of the Iranian Embassy, and today it is quite clear: If this young man had not worn a protective gear, a protective vest, he would not be alive today. That is, it is not just about symbol politics, it is about life and death – and that is how it is used. We have very special challenges and responsibilities. 2 000 pieces of new ballistic protective vests, protective glasses, 600 pieces of new stormguns, which I was able to hand over to the military police last week, 300 sniper rifles and much more. However, these are only a first step in bringing man’s equipment to a modern state and also quantitatively corresponding to the man and the woman. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it is also invested in the infrastructure. Why is that important? – On the one hand, we want to provide our staff, our soldiers, with adequate premises for the provision of the service, but also our basic military servants, who stay with us for six months, with suitable accommodation. Des- 180 million euros will be invested in infrastructure in the next two years. I can also mention figures for the federal states here – and this has also been done in the context of the questions in the Committee on Budgets. One thing I can say: In the area of infrastructure is not saved, it is invested. It is urgent and absolutely necessary to take further investment steps. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already mentioned it: We must not save on staff either. Why? – We have had a positive turnaround for some time, in truth since the launch of the 2015 migration crisis, since the population has also said quite clearly: We want more security and a strong federal army!, and thus also a correspondingly good image of the federal army, which enables us to address young people to come to us, to take the best and then to benefit the federal army. That is why there will also be more in the field of multiservices, in the field of training operations, namely, 3.4 million euros more for this year and 4.9 million euros more for 2019. I say that this staff offensive, which was properly started, must continue, and we all know that there are the retirement exits, which one should not only compensate, but must also compensate with the best forces, ladies and gentlemen. We also have great tasks to do within the framework of the EU Presidency, and I should like to mention just a few examples that will be given to the Austrian German army from July for six months: We are working with 160 drivers, we have six airspace security operations in the framework of the EU Presidency in Austria with about 1,000 soldiers, and we have of course, if there are appropriate security police assistance requirements on the part of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, to carry them out in accordance with the BMI. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the outset: The foreign commitment will continue to be maintained. I have already had the pleasure of visiting the three great quotas of the Austrian Federal Army in Bosnia, Kosovo and Lebanon together with the speakers, and it is important that this great expectation of the international community, above all of the European Union, be met, as has already been observed. That is why we have also budgeted EUR 66.5 million for foreign operations for this year. This ensures that we provide the Western Balkans, which we see as a whole, very important area for the security of Austria, with soldiers. Mr Hoyos – you are back there – you have addressed the situation of the EU's external borders, migration movements and cetera. What you said is not quite right. We have budgeted a total of 73 million euros for assistance and support in the context of and in the context of dealing with the migration crisis for 2018 and 73 million euros for 2019. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we are going to meet, so the Federal Government is saying that security is worth something, and that is what we are saying, that we are making more budget resources available to the German army. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I may add two or three points because they are important to me personally and because many of you are also active in the field of militia: We need to further strengthen the militia. It is a constitutional task to align and build the federal army according to the military system, and we have air up there. There you go. we air up in the area of equipment, there we have air up also in the personnel, but, ladies and gentlemen, in this respect alone in the equipment and man equipment area, there will be 9 million euros in order to further strengthen the militia and also to express appropriate appreciation of the military soldiers. We invest 30 million euros in the appeal of the ground defense service, whereby I would like to maintain that we have received a very concrete mandate from Austrians to carry out this attraction. I would like to point out on the edge, although it is not military core competences, but they are also ours: Military music – that was a hot topic in the last legislative period, I can well remember what you have planned and also performed, namely reductions in many areas – is going up again. We will again experience full military music, ladies and gentlemen, especially important for your military commanders, for the federal states and also for the cultural contribution made by the Austrian Federal Army in this area. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There will also be no savings in military sports – where our successful athletes are, where we also have great medal winners. This too, I do not call it a margin now, but non-core area of military defence is shown accordingly in this budget. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You see, a lot has happened in the first hundred days, but I'm stuck here and I'm not going to say: It is still very, very much to be done, in the positive sense, in order to further the federal army, to reduce the investment stand, to live appreciation for our soldiers and the staff and, if we take seriously, of course also to ensure security in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say once again that our budget, which is now available, offers us the opportunity to work out our government programme, to treat the lighthouse projects that we have defined ourselves, but of course it will be necessary to find solutions together with the government and coalition partners in large procurements, such as the successor of the Alouette III helicopter, where we have a very important base in Styria with the location of Aigen. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion: We also need to remain attractive as a service provider, so it needs a new military service right. We have to arrive in 2018. What was sufficient for a Mario Kunasek then, 1995, when he decided to become a professional soldier when he was told: You, dear Mario, do not deserve much, for a lifetime!, that is, I believe, no longer an incentive for young people to come to us. We need more flexible systems, we need exit scenarios, opportunities for further development, a modern service law, and I really invite everyone to move this right of service together quickly with us in order to stay attractive. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes to a strong federal army! The Austrians wish for it, and the Republic of Austria needs it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29546	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Dr. Axel Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29572	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Federal Minister Kunasek! I would like to take a bit further in the first place and recall once again, especially at SPÖ – and I know that SPÖ was also not a uniform opinion on the subject – that the SPÖ was ultimately the key driver in political communication 2013 in order to remove the German army in this form, in particular the obligation to do so, so to speak. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] It has not succeeded in thanking God for the fact that the survey of the people has taken place accordingly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] [[Abg. Lausch: Social Democrats are not security representatives!]] – This is particularly so now that the SPÖ is in great concern for the German army in this form. The only party or party, which has always known itself, throughout the years, to the Federal Army, as a federal army, on the basis of a general military obligation with a military component, was the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, if you don't look at the years ahead, you can't fully assess the situation today – and that's why I'm getting a little more out of it. What happened years ago under Federal Minister Klug after, so to speak, the killing of the army in the form of military service failed? – The army has been starved so that it is at the end of the term of office of Federal Minister Klug to draw a picture at the intensive care station, as a critical case. We also do not want to admit or stress that the Federal Minister Doskozil has succeeded in a trend change there – honor to whom honor is due – and this trend change is now in place, and the Freedom Party with Federal Minister Mario Kunasek succeeds in doing so very well. We're on the right track. Of course, this is not a wish concert, but of course everything could be better, but there is no reason to talk sick now and say that the federal army will be saved to death. We have already heard the figures, there are more resources than the Doskozil budgets, and considerably more resources. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Plessl:... of the investment plan! The foundation is missing!]] We speak of 60 million euros more this year, another 30 million euros, so in total 90 million euros more 2019 in relation to the reference year 2017. We are well aware – that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, especially Mr Bösch, but also by the Federal Minister – that a significant setback has been built, particularly in the area of large investments, but please do not be asked by Mr Mario Kunasek, the Federal Minister, but by his predecessors. Expected Don't ask our Federal Minister to break down the world in ten weeks and completely rehabilitate the Federal Army! It's not possible. [[Abg. Plessl: But at least... percent to give!]] – Yes, we have – and this has already been mentioned several times – the proper budget, which essentially covers personnel, operation and maintenance, but for larger special investments, talks with the Minister of Finance will be needed in the future; these will not be covered by the ordinary budget. But don't prejudicate now, you don't know what comes out of these conversations! Evident will be that 2020, and at the latest then you will have to devote yourself intensively to the subject. [[Abg. Plessl: You know, the planning is never given then!]] Let me make a few more points, also add to or strengthen those points which the Federal Minister has already mentioned: What do we do for our federal army in the years 2018 and 2019? – I do it briefly because the light is already shining. We have recognised that there is the greatest need for protected mobility, this will also be covered accordingly by an investment programme, or will significantly improve this protected mobility with pandur, Hägglunds, Dingos and so on. We have realized that there is a considerable need for man equipment, which we cover – the Federal Minister has already said – especially crowd-and-riot control equipment such as protective vests, storm rifles, sniper rifles. We have had to recognize that the infrastructure in the barracks is in a partially deplorable state. There is also a need for some money to be taken into control. We have recognised that the militia also urgently needs to improve the equipment – the Federal Minister has already said it – and there is also EUR 9 million for that. We will continue to participate successfully in international exercises. As a military soldier, it is particularly important for me to ensure sufficient military exercises, with a total of 135 000 days of exercise. In addition to the equipment, it is important that the militia exercises, and I am familiar with times when exercises have been cancelled, especially in 2013 and 2014. That's not our way. We confess to the militia without delay and also do our best and most possible in this area. So, in summary: The German army is not dead, Doskozil has launched the trend turnaround, Kunasek will continue this trend turnaround successfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29692	The next item is Mrs Irene Hochstetter-Lackner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29717	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear youth at the gallery! What is reflected in this budget – and this, Mr Minister, is particularly unusual in the field of national defence – is the absence of any strategic considerations in the leadership of the Ministry of Defence. You like to talk about the misunderstandings of your predecessors, then you praise your predecessors again and again, that goes back and forth. You like to compare yourself with your predecessors, I would recommend: Don't do that! The shoes are probably a little too big for you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Compare yourself with your own specifications! They have said in the election campaign that 1 percent of GDP will be spent on national defence. Now you yourself say that we are far below and we will get further below it. [[Abg. Gerstner: She's right!]] You know that yourself, and you mentioned it yourself. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] But what does it mean for the national defense to have less and less money at their disposal? Since the start of the government, we have always heard from the Minister that he wants to look more closely at things. On the other hand, there is nothing to talk about, it is good for someone to get involved and look at everything closely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] But now, Minister, this is about the budget. The Minister is still looking more closely and unfortunately does not agree with the appropriate answers. For example, the Minister has visited Carinthia for a whole day. [[Abg. Hauser: Is still great when the Minister goes to the population!]] He then announced via an OTS broadcast that infrastructure measures in Carinthia amounting to over 10 million euros are planned and he made a commitment to the construction of barracks in the town of Villach. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] In the meantime, we can be glad if the newly purchased tanks get a roof over the head and don't rust away if I can say so, we don't know if this construction site is still being cancelled. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I also asked you a clear question. In 2019 in a Garnison city like Villach to spend 300 000 euros on infrastructure measures, that will probably be a bit very, very little! I have not yet asked you to do so, because I have clearly asked you about the investments for the country of Carinthia, and I have not received an answer to that either. You said you still have answers, maybe you can still submit them to us. I would have liked them to be written by you, so I have to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Another area that also makes me break my head is the cyberdefence area. This is an area that is becoming increasingly important – we know that and we also talk about it daily, the media are full of it – but an area with a very special requirement profile, because a cyberdefence expert does not necessarily have to be an infantry player and do shooting exercises. We're talking about absolute experts who don't just want to go to the federal army like that. We need a very special form of recruitment in this area. But maybe there are also people in the federal army who are not used properly, perhaps you can look at it more closely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer]] I have also asked a question about this and have been dealt with with with with with the lapidary answer that budget resources are available, but cannot be specifically identified – for an area that is absolutely important. I think it will be time for the Minister not only to consider something, but finally to create framework conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] A perfectly prepared structural reform of his predecessor Doskozil he simply swept away by hand and refused. What I am missing now is the defence policy ideas of you and the strategy behind them. There is only one administration of defence among you, Mr Minister, so far, there are no objectives, no active design, no future and no content.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29821	The next item is Mr Johann Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29856	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the budget does not meet all the expectations that have been aroused in the past, but it is undisputedly higher than that which was cheered up under Federal Minister Doskozil at that time. It is more than 60 million euros this year and it will be more than 280 million euros this year and next year, which will be available for the German army and the state defense. – So far to the facts. Of course, it is true that Mr Kunasek has a huge task ahead of him, but one must know that there is also a high level of investment in many areas of the department, in many arms holes, because there is an incredible vacuum that is due to it – since I now have to explicitly name two ministers, namely Mr Darabos and Mr Klug, who are responsible – that this system has been eroded and financially starved. [[Abg. Hammer: These are even the worst, the two!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Putting yourself here now, dear colleague Rudi Plessl, and to regret the current situation, that is really more than hypocritical, that is unbelievable and just more embarrassing. [[Call the ÖVP:Really!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is precisely these reactions, ladies and gentlemen, that I would have expected myself under smart and under Darabos when we agreed to do so when we said that we need more. We have repeatedly requested that we have made requests again and again, we have tried to discuss with the Federal Minister again and again, but there you have watched, you were gone, there you turned away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] The only one who's confessed, that was Otto Pendl at the time, and nobody else. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Plessl.]] As far as the challenges are concerned, they are large, especially in investment, but when it comes to these large procurements, which last for many years or decades, of course there will be special investment programmes. I am thinking, above all, of areas that have already been mentioned, which are also very much in my heart personally, that is the whole area of airspace protection, where it is also a matter of having a multi-purpose helicopter for the future, which replaces the alute, but also the other models. It is also a question of clarifying the question of how the Eurofighter continues, which has also been undermined by Darabos with a really sad comparison, and it is also about the large area of land vehicles, where it is important to be able to make up special vehicles which guarantee all mobility. The fact that we are trying to strengthen the system is that we are trying to give them a priority, of course, to the people who work in the system in the new service law. I think, Mr. Federal Minister, the beginning is made, we are on a good path and you can rely on our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29943	The next item is the speech by Mr Hermann Kristi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e29989	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on both sides of the government! High house! The national defence budget is always a hot topic and a hotly debated area. It must not be forgotten, however, that this budget has been managed for decades by ODP ministers in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance, and under Hans Peter Doskozil, all of which have now confirmed, an upward trend has now been launched on which the new Minister of Defence can build well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler:... remove!]] Mr. Radler! I can remind President Khol, who has always said: if there are calls for interim calls, then they should be intelligent. - Maybe you can stick to that. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is still much to do with the workers in the barracks as well as with the troops; not much remains of the election notices. I can quote some of the examples from Upper Austria that I made yesterday. Today, it should not be possible for twelve employees in a barracks to share a 16-square-metre office. It should no longer be standard that 22 ground defense servants must live together in a room. [[Abg. Hauser: This is a perfect self-equilibrium!]] It's actually not okay that 100 people need to share four toilets. [[Abg. Haider: You've allowed that for years!]] As an important training centre, the Heeres subofficiiersakademie in Enns would urgently need a gym. There was also much to do in Ried and Hörsching. [[Abg. Haider: A perfect self-esteem! That's crazy!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I hear that much was prepared, promised and signature mature and even in implementation, but everything is currently stopped. It does not have to be negative if something is stopped, but I would ask you not to forget, Minister, the Upper Austria, and to continue with the investments that have been announced and which have already begun to be prepared. The team and the employees deserve it a hundred percent. A question about sport: You mentioned the military sport positively earlier. I have heard that the promised sum is supposed to be reduced, also because the sport is no longer in the defence resort. I would like to ask you to explain this again. I think there should also be an appropriate budget for Upper Austria, the people deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30089	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Christian Schandor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30114	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Minister of Defence! Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear visitors and listeners! We've heard it today: Security is not everything, but without security everything is nothing. If you look at the need pyramid of Abraham Maslow, you will find that at the second stage of this five-stage pyramid, the subject of security is not only about social security, but also about the security that the colleagues in the interior and the defence resort guarantee every day for all Austrians. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the Second Republic, seven ÖVP politicians in almost 33 years were in charge of the defence sector, in almost 23 years there were five politicians from the SPÖ and two persons nominated as partyless but by SPÖ Chancellors, and in seven remarkably successful years there were three freedom ministers. Federal Minister Mario Kunasek has taken over a huge task. He has a legacy, he has taken over a farm that is not only indebted but also closed. In ten years of SPÖ's defence policy, almost ten lost years for the German army, the German army was massively reduced in terms of its heavy weapons systems. The question for me is to what extent the German army can carry out or carry out all constitutional tasks and in particular those of the military state defense at all. In order for the federal army to fulfil its tasks, a national shoulder closure is necessary. This took place here in the house 2015. A long-term secure and sufficient budgetary coverage is required to resolve the investment backlog of the last 30 years from 2018 onwards. The necessary financial resources must be put in place in order to take the necessary measures that will require us both time and challenges. So if the regular budget does not provide the necessary means for a sustainable reorganisation of the federal army, we, the Parliament, will have to decide and adopt a number of extra-budgetary special packages. Ladies and gentlemen! These urgent projects include mobility – four fleets are over 30 years old – the Miliz, the successor model of the helicopter Alouette III, the jet trainer Saab 105, the interceptor, construction infrastructure and so on. In this area, solutions should be developed with the Federal Minister for Finance, as these projects have not been taken into account in the current budget. The German army, ladies and gentlemen, is lagging behind in its human and material composition compared with other forces in countries comparable to Austria in terms of prosperity. Politics should be a learning system, it should look at reality and analyze it, draw consequences from mistakes and correct its actions. Unfortunately, this is often or mostly reactive: first the disaster and then the measure. In this connection, I can remind you of the avalanche accident in Galtür and the subsequent re-purchase of the Black Hawk helicopters. From 1934 to 1938, Wilhelm Zehner, General of Infantry, was State Secretary of State for Defence and together with his Chief of Staff, tried to obtain the necessary funds from the Minister of Finance for the Federal Army of the First Republic. He failed. From this budgetary distress, a popular donation was created for the army, the so-called pilot donation. With these means, fighters were purchased for the Federal Army of the First Republic. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What is that for...?]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Empathizes you!]] In order for you, Minister of State Kunasek, not to do the same as your predecessor from the First Republic, I can now hand over to the Minister of Finance an original copy of this donation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30179	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Harald Wier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30213	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Federal Minister Mario Kunasek explains in a very large format in the “Kurier” “Becoming Doskozil’s Way”. [[keeping a copy of the paper in height]] Well, you have to ask: What is Doskozil for? What is to be continued? – For me, Hans Peter Doskozil stands for a start-up in the German army, because he has fought for more money for the security of Austria, and he stands for a modern, efficient federal army for our security, a modern organisational structure, that is, for the state defense 21.1, the structural reform of the Austrian federal army. Federal Minister! You said you were going to continue this path. I now ask the question: How does the continuation of the Doskozil path actually look? – First of all: The structural reform is completely stopped. This was an agreement with the speakers of all the parties, all the political groups, and for themselves there was clarity and security about how we are doing. Now in the army there are many cadres instead of motivation frustration. I think this step is missing. Secondly, Instead of more money, it will be scarce for the Austrian federal army. FPÖ has promised 1 percent of the gross domestic product before the election. There is nothing out of that, at present it is 0.59 percent, and according to the budget path, it will intensify further, 2021/2022 towards 0.49 percent, and in the case of good economic conditions, it will become even less in these budget figures. So the army budget is falling, the means for the army are falling. The FPÖ has promised a lot before the election, but has not kept it. For the start of the mood: Unfortunately, I have to note, even after talks with many of the German army's cadres, that the mood of departure in the German army is stuffed. There is great uncertainty at all levels of the army and the Doskozil spirit has now been killed. This was very, very fast. [[Abg. Kassinger: Because there were no plans!]] A short while ago, the security strategy of Austria, the peace missions and foreign operations, which are of great importance. I am particularly concerned with the areas of crisis that are close to Austria. It is about the Balkans, Kosovo, Bosnia. Austria plays a very important stabilising role in this. It is also an opportunity for an active foreign policy in Austria. As has already been pointed out here today, the staff force is determined by decision of 1 100 teams, and 900 are budgeted. There is a great deficit for which the Federal Government is responsible. I am not talking about areas of crisis such as Ukraine, which is only separated from us by Slovakia. It would be absolutely necessary to comply with the agreed staff strength. There is therefore an urgent need for investment, first of all in the area of militia, second in the field of mobility in general, third in the area of helicopter fleet, airspace surveillance and finally in the area of general infrastructure including modern communication channels and the barracks. No special financing is provided for in the Federal Financial Framework Act. But there are also realists in the ÖVP, e.g. Erwin Hameseder, who recently showed up in the “Kurier”, there he said that he was upset by the cuts in the army budget 2021, 2022 – and Hameseder is one who does not beautify the present situation. In my opinion, the Austrian federal army with this financial path is not to be kept in the form of 2021, 2022. The situation is very, very serious. In these internationally uncertain times Austria needs a well-equipped and reliable army. The financial plans of ÖVP and FPÖ do not contribute to the security of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30262	Next speaker: Mr Christian Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30283	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Unfortunately, I am no longer aware of Mr Krist, whom I appreciate very much, but he has almost felt sorry for his unrestrained self-appropriation, which he left out of the stack before. [[Abg. Plessl: “self - anchorage ”?]] He complained about the conditions in the barracks and in the offices. I would have expected him to say that during the last legislative periods with SPÖ defence ministers all these things were being worked out. This obviously did not happen, as Mr Christ told us. I now have a recommendation to the SPÖ: Take a flight together, perhaps to Humboldt, where you can take the course: How does opposition work?- Oh, my God! Maybe you'll be easier. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner's speech is also to be assessed as follows. Mrs. Colleague said she was worried that our tanks were rusting because the garages were not built for this or are not available. Mrs Lackner, let us take you to the former tank battalion 33, where you, the SPÖ Minister of Defense, removed the keys of the tanks and destroyed the tanks at the kilo price. There is nothing left to rust because the tank battalion is now walking on foot thanks to the SPÖ's defense doctor. [[Congratulations and Bravoruf at the FPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am also amazed at the statements made by Mr Plessl, who was almost dissatisfied with the fact that there is no longer such a high level of defence budget. Mr Plessl, do you know what you forgot to say? – Last year your Minister Doskozil made an advance of EUR 300 million on the 2018 budget. [[Abg. Plessl: For protection and defense!]] That is 300 million euros that we are missing now, Mr Plessl, but you have forgotten to report that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] If you think about how the day of today happened, you can see that not only transport policy, but also the state defense were always a stepchild of the SPÖ. We've heard it today: Minister Darabos and Minister Klug were not necessarily those who brought the German army forward; this was now very politely formulated. In fact, it was only in the face of the crisis in 2015, but also in view of the threat of terror in Austria under Minister Doskozil that a rethinking occurred at least insofar as it was noted that it was very important to rebuild the militia accordingly. The Miliz was already a case for the intensive care station – as Mr Kassinger said earlier. At least one step has been taken in the right direction. In a first phase, twelve hunter battalions, twelve hunters, nine pioneer workers and a disaster relief unit were set up to ensure that safety had been increased. What is the challenge of our Minister Kunasek for the future? – The implementation of the planned phase two, i.e. to continue to fill up already existing associations, to further equip them, but also to set up new, planned units. Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, we should also ask ourselves here in the House who is actually the militia and what the militia is doing for us. I don't think you can talk about it often enough. It is citizens who, in principle, have done their basic military service and have also agreed to continue to serve our country. These are, ladies and gentlemen, people who are top motivated who are willing to leave their comfort zone and practice in their leisure time. I see this, for example, with the unity I may belong to at the hunter's side Tulln. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, in numbers? – Mr Plessl, 130 000 days of exercise were already done voluntarily in 2018. I think it is up to us to thank the soldiers very much for this. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why it is also natural to ensure the equipment, to fill the companies and the units accordingly, and to carry out the rescheduling. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that this is, of course, also a financial act, must be aware of all of us, and in this direction we must also work. We must and will therefore respond to these challenges. However, we must also respond to the size of the militia in so far as new training structures and new logistics structures need to be created, and, of course, we will have to take control of them according to money. We're going to learn this responsibility. We have to put up the money for this – as is the case with an insurance that we have completed – that must be worth it to us. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently in Austria, 16 000 soldiers are volunteering, sacrifice their free time, sacrifice time with their families, and often use their vacation for our safety. I think that's what it's worth. I would therefore also like to take advantage of the opportunity, on the one hand, to express thanks and recognition to these soldiers, on the other hand to start a call – as there is still a need for military soldiers in Austria – and to encourage them to report to the militia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30359	Next item is the report by Mr Alois Kainz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30383	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Minister for his excellent report. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! Article 9a of our Federal Constitutional Act standardises that Austria is committed to comprehensive national defence. When we talk about national defence, we talk about the security of the citizens and our country. I think you will all agree that security is also one of the basic needs of man. The safeguarding of our security, however, presupposes the ability to defend ourselves. Our federal army, in particular, is making a huge contribution to the security of our country and our citizens. I have been working with the Austrian Federal Army for 34 years and am therefore particularly pleased with the positive developments for our national defence in the budget. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The years of caputt saving of our army have ended, and the budget is a good basis for the continuation of the positive trend change in the German army. The budget for the Austrian Federal Army for 2018 is estimated at more than 112 million euros and, for 2019, almost 70 million euros higher than originally estimated. Ladies and gentlemen! This ensures that there will not be any savings in the Federal army's personnel. For one-time investments such as helicopters, there will be an own purchase budget. It was also common practice in the past, however, that large and important investments could only be made through special investment packages involving Parliament. What seems very important to me as a staff representative is that we work intensively on the organisation plans in order to ensure that our staff again a greater level of job and career safety. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank Mr Mario Kunasek for the good work he has done. This budget makes it clear that our Federal Government is firmly and clearly committed to the fact that the security of Austria must not be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30441	Now, Mr Kunasek, the Federal Minister, has made another statement. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30462	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the questions raised very briefly. Members of Parliament are not in the hall at the moment, but I can say here that in 2017 we had EUR 9.7 million available for military sports and that it will be EUR 13 million each in 2018 and 2019; that is, it will be more. As far as staff with around 300 army athletes, including some people with disabilities, are concerned, everything remains the same. Please pass this on to Member Krist! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To Mr Tür another or two sentences – I have already said it in my statement of entry –: Of course, we are committed to maintaining our commitment to foreign operations at a high level in the international field. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] We were in Lebanon recently, we were in the Balkans together, and we know how highly appreciated our commitment will be there. This is also true of the strategic orientation of the Federal Government. Of course, the Western Balkans is also a focus of the EU Presidency in the second half of the year, and this is right because peace and stability there also mean security for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, these 1 100 soldiers have always been mentioned in the Committee: It will always remain in the field of situation assessment, whether it is once or not less, and of course it always depends on what is required. At the moment we have around 900 who do excellent work. We are the strongest troops in Bosnia, and I also say that without us there would be no such thing in Kosovo and would not work, and Lebanon is the same in the field of transport logistics. We will continue to remain at a very, very high level. Allow me a sentence on this structural reform – it was referred to – of my predecessor: The uncertainty, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, did not come about by the new Federal Government. The uncertainty arose from a announced change of organization, which was in fact never carried out, but with which one projected expectations. Today, of course, many – above all in the area of command structures and the officers – feel a legitimate uncertainty as to how it continues. It was not triggered by us, but recognized by us and is now given a solution. There will be narrow command structures, more to the force – and yes, I say it here in the House – away from headlines and airlocks, to an efficient, powerful, but nevertheless slim army. This is the way we want to go together. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Finally, my last point – because it was also referred to by the honourable Member – is: Of course, we will continue to cooperate at European level. In the permanent structured cooperation, Austria is involved in four projects, and I have even announced that is now in place. I think that we will perhaps be more involved in two areas of research, namely in the area of ABC defence, because we have great companies in Austria, also in the field of research, where you can open up opportunities not only to prove yourself on the market, but perhaps also to giant. The second area in which we have great military capabilities – the West Austrians, the Tyroleans, Vorarlbergers and Salzburgers know that – is the mountain fight, where Austrian soldiers are not only at the top of the world, but also the unique number one. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There we have a lot of expertise, which, with best greetings to Salzburg and Tyrol, naturally needs to be expanded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30534	Subdivision 14: Military matters are now no longer available for me to speak. That is why I declare the deliberations on this subject ended. [[12:34:00]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30565	We reach the next sub-division, namely 33: Economy (Research) and 40: Economy. A joint debate is taking place on this subject, and I welcome Mrs Schramböck. First of all, Mrs Cornelia Ecker is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30595	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! The budget is the political will of the government. I will talk about the economy of the budget. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has come up with the "Time for New" voting log, but in the economic sector the complete opposite is happening, which is the motto: Back to the past. Dear Mrs. Schramböck! The budget presented by you is a budget of wasteful opportunities. You would have the best conditions: The economic location is as good as ever and the economy is excellent. Now it would be time to think in the long term, to act innovatively, to invest in future investments and in Austria's economic location, but these approaches – I've carefully looked through the budget – are being used in the economic field. As the managing director of a small company, I know exactly what challenges you face every day in this area. I would like you to start there and get under the arms of all those companies that so urgently need your support – I am speaking here of all SMEs, all the EPCs and, above all, the innovative start-ups. But in the ÖVP, the Matthew principle obviously dominates, which is: He who has, he will be given. In fact, the large companies and the large donors of your parties are being supported. There are so many construction sites in the economic sector in particular, but I do not see that these construction sites are repaired, but they are being broken up, quite the contrary, many, many more. Mrs Minister, I am now quoting a sentence which we have often heard in the last GP and which is somehow – apologise for the wording! – it works: Every sausage stand, every baker, every butcher around the corner pays more taxes than Starbucks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What exactly does the government do against this tax trickery, against all these large corporations that do not tax? - Nothing! On the contrary: She prefers to shorten with the auditors. Such a topic is also the payment of payment: The government has still not done anything to increase the subsidies to smaller enterprises for the payment of payments. That's where you have to be, Mrs. Minister. To say – and you did so in the Committee – that the removal of the employment bonus, the removal of additional wage support for start-ups has no effect on the companies, I think is simply a hoon. I wonder if you have the courage to stand before the unemployed, before the elderly, and to say, I don't need to help you, because there are no solutions on my part. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago I met not far from here, a few more rooms, with representatives of the start-up scene. It is about those representatives who are promoting companies that are innovative and who could create many jobs in the future. These have told me that they are very afraid that promotions would be deleted. That's exactly what happened to your budget. [[Abg. Little: We have better measures!]] The deletions in the start-up package are a disaster for this scene. [[Abg. Go, go, go!]] They assured us in the committee that the funding would be shortened and deleted because they were not adopted. That's not true, you know. This is also not a visionary approach in this area, which is inspectible and far away from any reality, and that will also be confirmed by the representatives of the start-up scene. I'll give you something on your way, too, Mrs. Minister: Instead of investing more money in your public work, I suggest taking the money, putting it into the marketing of funding opportunities for start-ups, so that these companies can grow, be innovative and stay here in Austria and create many jobs. [[Abg. Little: I would ask colleagues Kern, he's a specialist!]] I know you can't report insolvency as a minister, but just as you work, you'd do it in the economy, now in insolvency.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30690	Next speaker: Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30714	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Before I come to my colleague Ecker, I would like to warmly welcome the club of friends of Europe alive with President Franziska Stampfer in the House. Greetings, ladies! Mrs Ecker, I do not think it is the way you describe it. [[It is a pleasure for ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as for SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] We of the ÖVP also have the courage to realize that a measure is not the right one to take it back. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ecker: Ask for the start-ups that will confirm it to you!]] In the case of employment bonuses and these things, there were measures that did not bring the right steps and the right impulses during a phase of the high economy. So courage belongs to that too. We live in the same federal state where we have the lowest unemployment and in which the economy has the best figures by a strong head of state with a good team and by entrepreneurs who do excellent work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think you could be a little proud of your federal state. A good news is that we have an economic optimism in our country that has reached the highest value for 25 years. This economic sentiment in Austria is gratifying. The mood may also be so good because we do not have brakes and overregulators in our government. The signal of this government is that something is going on at last, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] People notice that we want to change something. People notice that we don't want to spend more than we take. And people notice that we work and don't fight. I think that's good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to say once again to Mr Ecker: The start-up scene in Austria is very good, both in Vienna and Salzburg. It is very gratifying that there are many young entrepreneurs who are involved and show innovation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ecker.]] However, if you have a measure that is not even adopted by 50 percent or just by just over 50 percent, you have to ask whether it is the right measure that we have put in place. That is why we have support measures for start-ups and SMEs that prove themselves. For example, we have expanded the entire framework, the AWS guarantee programme. I think one of the key points is to say: Okay, it's not just about promoting, it's about giving someone who invests a guarantee for it and taking over liability. I think this project is the right measure to support entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The second point, which I am of course very pleased with, is that we are continuing to increase the export rate this year. The German Federal Government's internationalisation offensive together with the Chamber of Commerce – now that Mr Schellhorn is not here, because he always shakes his head at the Chamber of Commerce – is one of the right measures to put impulses there. [[Abg. Schellhorn: (standing in the corridor between the rear rows) I'm already there!]] We earn 6 out of 10 euros abroad, and we have created 500 000 new jobs since the year 2000 by internationalising our economy. – Thanks to the entrepreneurs and businesses in our country. I think that is the way to make a truly successful economic policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is also very gratifying that we have a Ministry of Digitalization in the Federal Government. The Minister of the Interior carries digitization practically in her DNA, because she comes from this area and is an absolute profi. We are all invited to support them on the way to turning Austria into a digital number one in Europe. Our support, Mrs. Minister, is definitely yours!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30821	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30845	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Minister! After listening to colleagues from Haubner, I have to collect a bite again, but basically one has to be clear to you already: The Ministry of Finance raises – of course – and the Ministry of Economic Affairs grants the grants. This will not change in the new government either. I would also like to add a few numbers to your mind: Corporate tax increases by 1 billion euros in the proposed period, income tax by 2.5 billion euros, and so-called economic support increases only by 300 million euros. And now it comes: However, the government's focus is on another direction: From 2018 to 2019, there will be a significant shift from SMEs to large enterprises. This is absolutely nothing bad, but if you say again and again that SMEs are the economic backbone of this nation, I call you a number, namely the increase in the investment premium. Minister, for SMEs, these fall by 87 percent from 2018 to 2019, from 29 million euros to just over 3.5 million euros! The investment premium for large companies – you can say now that it has expired, but you have done something different – increases by 97 percent from 19 to 38 million euros. This is, as it were, your understanding for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs Schramböck repeatedly mentions that the funding is not at all collected, and I would like to tell you that this is true. If you are talking to entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized enterprises, they will say: Yes, I don't pick it up because I don't do the bureaucratic insanity anymore. I need a lot more time before I meet all the requirements to get my support. But they keep talking about digitization. I can't hear the word digitization anymore if you don't implement it! – That’s the topic! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] That makes me angry! This not only makes me angry as an entrepreneur, it also makes me angry as a politician. It is embarrassing now, because in every discussion you hear: Digitalization! Digitalization! – and nothing comes of it. No steps will be taken. There are also no steps to debureaucratisation. [[Abg. Höbart: You'll hear what we're doing!]] I'd like to tell you a story, and I'm going to use my key again. It was my key that made it possible for me – yes, there is also the police – to have the freedom to create my own home at that time, when my oldest son came into the world. [[holding in hand a keyring with a pendant on which “police” stands]] [[Abg. Nice key!]] But it is a second key in the covenant. Unfortunately, this is the key that makes it difficult for so many companies to lock up their operations. They can't lock up anymore because the key has been taken from them. They suffer from the fact that the insanity of the authorities is so preoccupied that they simply can't do it anymore. They may no longer be able to do so because they no longer find successors, as there is a shortage of skilled workers. They are probably no longer able to do so, either, because the insanity of the authorities is taking place. The insanity of the authority when they say: I can't. I don't want to. Or they say: I can't pay my employees anymore. That can be too. But one cannot be, that on the other hand, your Chamber of Commerce collects 800 million euros per year. It can't be! – And you’re still happy about it! You are no longer afraid and no sleep problems because you no longer get promotions or grants from the Chamber of Commerce. You don't care, I'd even say it's fucking you that--
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30906	What you have not said, of course, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30921	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You don't care what the entrepreneurs think. It doesn't matter to you how much businessmen are urged to do when it comes to the fact that the Minister of Social Affairs is sending out events, how much the labour inspectorate has to bring in when it comes to a financial officer saying: There's nothing coming together with you, so I can't get any points together. - That's what the entrepreneurs feel. Entrepreneurs feel that you are limiting support for small and medium-sized enterprises and that you are putting the funds into the investment increase premium for large enterprises. That scares me! It scares me that people out there and the small and medium-sized enterprises think: My voice is no longer worth anything, it doesn't count anything anymore, because you promised us something completely different. That's the subject. And you don't even know what problems small and medium-sized enterprises have. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Cox.]] You're the biggest fear of a transparency database coming. You want to prevent them from getting openness and clarity and light into the last corners. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That's why it's not about anything else! Make her the transparency database! Then we know where the promotions come from and where they are going. Then we know there is a black sports club, a red sports club and a blue sports club, and these get a bit of money, and then there is that, that and that. [[Abg. Svazek: No, there is no!]] That's life in Austria, in this way the promotions will simmer. That is why we need transparency! 72 percent of entrepreneurs say: We don't want any promotions at all. First of all, we want the additional wage costs to decrease, and secondly, we do not want to be so urged. That's why it's not about any distribution mechanisms you're creating. It's about the key with which every businessman can lock up the next day in the morning. [[Keeping the said keyring in height]] That is why we are going to do so, and you should ensure transparency as soon as possible. That is to put it into practice and not to keep the fear going!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30974	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e30995	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! All listeners, especially in front of the televisions! After listening to colleagues Schellhorn, I would like to make it clear that he had to take care of his blood pressure, because his head was very red. I think it might be a good thing to get you down a little. But I'm giving you a lot of things. The small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the Austrian economy, not only since the last years, but since World War II, when our country was completely rebuilt, quite skillfully and diligently. What surprises me a little bit is that you attack out of a position from which you know very well, just like the rest of the opposition, that we only went into operation four months ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] One thing is certain, we are in the same boat, and I have already told you that you can rely on me to have an economic policy that we can very well believe in our population and that our people will vote in the next elections. That's what I'm convinced of. It is very important for this country that, after years of falling back on competition, we have decided to put in place many measures to regain this competitiveness, not only nationally but also internationally. And that's where it goes in tax law: International corporations do not have to tax their profits here in Austria, and there we have to put the lever on tax law so that these groups, where they make profits, also pay taxes. - That's already in work. A crucial thing that affects every farm, but also the state, is that an inflated state will never be able to act positively. We need a slim state! We need to orient our plan posts to the requirements of the best. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Let me give you an example: In my home community, 16 plan posts are planned in the administration, and we have 8.3 jobs, which corresponds to about 52 percent. You cannot speak of a good value in other institutions if you have an occupation rate of 92 percent. We can do a lot more, we can still come down enormously. We have to do the same if we want to get better. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since I've been a businessman, I've been suffering from overbureaucratism. What can you do about it? What's going on? – Dear Mrs Schramböck, thank you very much and a warm greeting to God; You just came, I think. In the future, there will be a law enforcement that also deserves its name. We have long been talking about limiting the number of laws. But what happens? – Three steps ahead, five steps back. It can't go on like this. We're going to have to change a lot. Or the approval procedures for the establishments: They have to be handled in one place, this has to go faster. Or, what is already under way: that wage payments are to be sent to one place. No one can abdicate that that makes sense. This will be a tremendous relief for companies. These wages, where there are currently more than a thousand different possibilities, are not negotiable for businesses! There we have our hands full to do that will be different. [[Abg. Loacker: Who makes underage changes in unemployment insurance?]] We must go to unemployment insurance to see how much unemployment we have, and unemployment is going back. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Loacker.]] I'm still coming back to that because it's always saying: the 50-year-old unemployed. I have had the best experience with employees I have employed in my business for over 50 years. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The difference lies only in: Do I want to work or do I don't want to work, can I work or can't I work? - You have to do that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] On the energy sector, which is crucial for the future: It is necessary to provide sufficient energy. Energy must as far as possible come from renewable energy. Energy must also be strengthened so that through the generation of electricity we can fully meet our own needs, and that will only be done with hydropower. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is a fool!]] [[Abg. Vogl: Do we make an additional river, or what? Did you find a river for us, or do we dig one?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bißmann.]] In this sense, we have a lot to do here in Austria. Finally, I would like to say something essential: If we don't want our families again, make them quiet and socially recognized, then the matter won't be a good outcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31145	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31170	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I would like to make a few comments on two objectives of subheading 40. The impact objectives are also part of the Federal Finance Act, find only less attention, but will nevertheless be taken tomorrow. The first comment on the objective of action 2: The objective of action 2 is to increase the attractiveness of the economic location. The Austrian economic location is always badly spoken. It's a tradition. We recall Christoph Leitl's statement about the "scanned" economic location. On the website of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the opposite is always the case, but it will be good, as one can also link demands with it. [[Abg. Höbart: It's been a while! That was three or four years ago!]] Right in time for the debate on sub-division 40, Deloitte meant that the Austrian economic location is going downhill. There are still those international rankings that should be critically considered. These also say again and again that Austria loses in these rankings. It is derived that the economic location is one with which it goes downhill. But if you look at the macroeconomic data, then you can find that this criticism is not actually justified. Export development in Austria is excellent, but not only since the start of the economy. Industrial production is also excellent. In the previous year, for example, Austria's industrial production was higher in growth than the industrial production of the Federal Republic of Germany. We do not have to hide with our economic location, quite the contrary, Austria is well positioned. But I do not say that it is not worthy of improvement in many ways. But the talk about the economic location being mistreated, but I think it's a far-reaching exaggeration. It is also true, and this is always shown by the fact that an enlarged welfare state, as we have it in Austria, does not conflict with a competitive economy. In this context, I do not understand at all, Mrs Federal Minister, why the economic location as a state target should be anchored in the Austrian federal constitution. This has, above all, a goal to put the environment at a disadvantage in relation to economic growth. I do not think this is adequate in the light of the climate change problem discussed yesterday. The second objective I want to address is to strengthen the competitiveness of the Austrian economy with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. There's a measure inside, which means: To improve the risk capital market in order to strengthen the equity situation of SMEs. [[Abg. Small: Third market!]] Precisely, third market. The Minister of Finance and I had been invited to a discussion of the Stocks Forum last week, and, in the run-up to this discussion, the Minister of Finance has expressed his support for opening up the third capital market for small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, it is certainly something that needs to be done in Austria to strengthen the equity base of small and medium-sized enterprises, but the way through the opening up of the third market is, in my view, a wrong way. I'm going to explain why. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is an unregulated market, ladies and gentlemen, and an unregulated market always poses problems. To date, small and medium-sized enterprises have only been allowed to issue registered shares on this market. This market is now to be opened up to small and medium-sized enterprises in order to also issue holding shares. I think this is extremely problematic and I simply reject it. Why? – Shareholders are anonymous papers. These are anonymous securities, and I remember that in 2009 Austria was on the OECD's grey list of tax havens. One of the reasons why Austria stood up was precisely these anonymous holding shares. So if you want to get back to the OECD's grey list for tax havens, that might be the way to go in this way. I would not recommend this way and believe that at the time we had all the tiredness and need to be removed from the grey list – with the help of the Civil Service Enforcement Act, which was then decided here. Everyone was really happy when that was the case. It is not enough, as a measure, to say that we are making a collective custody at the Austrian control bank to solve the problem of anonymity. Anonymity is unbearable in times when tax relief and the withdrawal of taxes are to be combated in Europe and the world. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Transparency is one of the strongest weapons we have in the fight against tax fraud and tax fraud, so it is one that I do not believe should be pursued. However, there is also a second reason why the opening up of the third market for SMEs is problematic. That's related to the size. Austria is now a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, that is right. On the other hand, there is also the problem that there is an information asymmetry between investors on the one hand and entrepreneurs on the other. Of course, what investors need is information about the company. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, there are no host of analysts who assess the company's status, no, this information must be provided by the investor himself. It is therefore very urgent to have transparency rules if a step in this direction is actually to be considered. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Otherwise, I firmly believe that this path of opening the third market – once again: it is an unregulated market – is the wrong way to strengthen the equity of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31235	Mrs. Schramböck is speaking on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31261	Madam President. High house! Dear Seers! We strengthen the economy and accompany the digital transformation of Austria. With this budget, we will move forward on the issues of the future, and at the same time we will make our contribution to the consolidation of the government budget. Both are important. As a result of digitization, the professional image of the Minister of Economic Affairs has changed, and so there have been some changes in our budget. With the BMG-Novelle responsibilities were transferred, and above all the topic of digitalization was located in my department. This also has an impact, and I would like to give a brief overview of it here. It is minus EUR 77 million in expenditure, minus EUR 204 million in revenue and through the allocation of tasks in the field of digitalization from the BMF and the Federal Chancellery plus EUR 24 million in this field. If we look at the budget estimate together, we see a value of 370 million euros in 2017, a value of 621 million euros in 2018 and a value of 661 million euros in 2019. What are our priorities in the field of economics and digitalisation? – First, we change the administration from Electronic to Mobile Government to bring the offices much closer to the citizens and up-to-date technology. For this we have 20 million euros in new, additional budget and will implement projects such as eusterreich.gv.at or Once Only. Those who have not been there in the committees – a colleague was not there – I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have started very concrete projects in digitization, in order to bring them close to the citizens. In times of economic growth – it has already been mentioned that we are in such a phase thanks to God – it is very important to look at using the right tools, especially those that are important to SMEs. There it is quite clear the guarantees – and not so much the funding – that help entrepreneurs and founders to advance their projects. That is why, as the first thing, we have taken the issue of guarantees from the AWS very clearly into the budget. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As a further point it is quite clear that Austria is an export nation that 6 of 10 euros are generated by the large companies as well as by the medium-sized companies in export. It is our duty to strongly support businesses abroad, and that is not a choice, but a duty. That is why we are developing an external economic strategy, and with this we are strengthening the Austrian Business Agency. This is what we are doing, as is the issue of internationalization. The program go-international, which is already very, very successful, we will continue. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] A very important further point is that of skilled workers. The experts are the key to the success of the Austrian economy. That is why we place a very clear emphasis on skilled training, on apprentices; to strengthen apprentices, to strengthen this form of training and to promote the digitisation of apprenticeships. This is why our youth also has a future and learns what it can well need in the future in the companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Innovation and quality are with the most important success factors for our companies, and that is why it is very important to me – I would like to stress this intensively here – That we do not cut the funds in these areas. We will therefore consistently continue the budgetary resources for the research applied for 2018 and 2019. What priorities will we set here? Firstly, the promotion of cooperation between the economy and scientific research, second, support for international research and technology cooperation, thirdly, support for the creation of young technology-oriented companies, fourthly, promotion in the creative economy, further drive them, and fifthly, the promotion of technology transfer and patent exploitation. I would like to stress once again the field of digitalization in research. We have two very concrete projects in this regard. The first project is Smart and Digital Services. There we promote digital innovations in the service and provide 8 million euros for this. Very important – we have heard it – is the topic of medium-sized companies. Supporting SMEs, micro- and medium-sized enterprises is important to me, and that is why we focus on, expand and maintain the SME Digital programme and invest 6.7 million euros there. So we are far from not supporting the medium-sized companies. On the contrary! We are creating programmes to promote them in particular. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would now like to mention further support programmes in the field of digitalization, which we have not introduced in the past, which we are introducing now, 2018, for example the Digital Innovation Hubs. It has already existed throughout Europe, only in Austria. We have planned these in the budget and will implement them this year, 2018. We will continue the research competence programme for the economy and also Coin, Cooperation & Innovation. We will increase the budget from EUR 8 million to EUR 15 million for these three programmes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] When we look at the research funding in total, it becomes clear that for the first time in 2018, 50 percent of the research funds are in the field of digitalization, so that we can ensure that we support the companies and the employees in these companies so that they can continue to manage well and succeed in the future. Together, we have set up a budget for my area – and therefore also my thanks to the Minister of Finance – which will enable the future and at the same time ensure the necessary efficiency in the system. This brings us forward in digitization as well as in Austria's economic location. We're good at it with our business location. Our economic location is very successful, we have started to make it even more successful, and with this budget there is the best basis for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31361	Thank you very much, Mrs. Minister. The next item is the speech by Mr Lettenbichler. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31386	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I thank you for your clarification, because it is not always easy to respond to Mr Rossmann's arguments. However, with concrete figures, with concrete actions, you have impressively This is what this Federal Government wants to do for this place of work and business. It is significant to follow Mr Rossmann's remarks, he acknowledges the achievements of the economy in a dirty way, but then shakes a sentence back to the envy and thinks again how to redistribute how to take away money again. Economics, Mr Rossmann, is also a lot of psychology. Not only does it require signals, not only good moods towards the economy and workers, but it also needs concrete action, concrete actions, and this federal government has taken action to improve the location of work and business. We will be able to measure this – very happy to let you measure it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why I do not find it objectionable, as you think, that the site, the workplace and the economic location should be defined as one of the objectives of the State. This is also an important signal at this stage. The economy is also flourishing so well because signals and actions of the Federal Government will come: It is not inhibited, it is not seen to be taken into the pockets, but it is given freedom. We want to relieve instead of burdening. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am particularly happy, and in this respect we are also envied by other countries – I have often had the opportunity to speak with colleagues from other German-speaking countries over the past few weeks and months – that we have had the courage in Austria, recognized the importance and created a German Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Economics and that, as Peter Haubnerschon has said, we have found a highly competent woman who has digitalization in her DNA. However, it is not only that, but also that the budget – the Minister of Finance knows – explicitly provides for digitization, in total, around EUR 86.5 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We have our own ministry, not in Germany, where there is only one State Secretary. The signs of time have been recognized, digitalization is important. I should like to quote Mr Leichtfried, who said one, two years ago, digitization is like a wave, we must learn to ride it, or we will be torn down. The right course is set for this. It also mentions a number of concrete measures, the AWS guarantee programme, the support of start-ups and the development of young and innovative technology-oriented companies, the SpringStart pilot programme and much more, much more. You can be sure, however, that we will move a lot in this country, not only for the economy, but also for workers, so that future generations will have even better than we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31452	Next item is Mrs Hammerschmid's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31473	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! As far as UG 34 is concerned, I have already held a plea for the importance of technology-based, innovative start-ups as a competitive economic location, and I would like to use them for the next few minutes, because finally I know what I am talking about. For eleven years I was active in the field of founding, I was allowed to co-design, co-development and accompany many, many start-ups. It's about risky, risk-intensive start-ups because they're doing a lot of research because they have a lot of technology in their business plans. That is to say, it is for the public authorities that this risk, which is particularly present in the founding process, should be far removed and an instrument mix made up of grants, levers for the mobilization of risk capital and tax incentives; and guarantees and liabilities should also be in the portfolio, which is entirely central. The second key instrument is the planning and sustainability of these funding instruments. A look at the UG 40 is a bit disillusioning, I would say. I start with the positive: Seed financing, which has already been mentioned, remains for at least the next two years. However, the very important additional wage reduction for the first three employees of start-ups – just introduced – has already been deleted, a measure that, according to the study “Land of Founders” – from your home, Mrs. Minister – is urgently called for by 93 percent of the founders. 93 percent of the founders also ask intensively for the support of the first employee in their companies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] The risk capital premium as a lever for investors, just introduced, is already being abolished. The guarantees you mentioned – and I do not understand that – are the SME guarantees, the SME funding law, for the AWS, for decades. I don't know what's new about it, but you might be able to deepen it bilaterally. Nothing is more counterproductive for the start-up scene than uncertainty and uncertainty. Madam Minister, I asked you in committee for the reasons for the two instruments to be stopped. Your answer was, it's a high economy, it doesn't need all of that. They would have talked to venture capital providers, to business angels, the necessary areas for networking, but no money. Faith You really, there are enough start-ups in Austria? Faith You really think Austria is a country of venture capital and business angels? A look at your own study shows: Business Angels invest a few million euros a year in Austria, and in international and European comparison, we are ranked 20th place. The Austrian Venture Capital Organisation ranks us at number 18 of 22 in the area of venture capital. [[Abg. Houses: Just like in education!]] Mrs. Federal Minister, I believe that by the restrictive measures, by withdrawing the instruments of this long year, you really put Biotope in jeopardy for founders in Austria. You cut down in these areas, and these delicate plants that have grown, you're going to be drowned again. One last thought: Many venture capitals, the big ones in Europe, sit in Zug, in Switzerland, and if you ask why they are there, you get a very clear answer, namely the high reliability from politics and public institutions, planning and high service character. I would like to conclude with a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:19]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31600	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Kassinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31632	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Federal Minister! I also speak to the UG 33: Economics (Research). As my previous speaker pointed out in an additional sentence, there are, of course, significant areas of overlap for the UG 34, which has already been treated today: research in the BMVIT. This is not a coincidence, but rather the fact that these two ministries, in addition to the Ministry of Science, are, in terms of basic research, especially for applied research, the important ministries, the process drivers in the field of applied research. In this context, BMVIT has around EUR 440 million at its disposal, the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Business Location, about EUR 100 million. In addition, the funds from the National Foundation amount to about 100 million euros and the funds from the Austrian Fund amount to about 35 million euros, which is very, very remarkable and which show how important it is for this Federal Government to support the field of research, in particular applied research. Why are we doing that? – Because it is clear to us that the conditio sine qua non, i.e., is a prerequisite for international competitiveness, namely with the following objectives: First goal: Strengthening the innovative power of Austrian companies, intensifying cooperation between industry and science and, in general, broadening the innovation base by expanding the transfer of technology. The second objective not only of this ministry, but of course also of BMVIT, is to stabilise the creation of knowledge-intensive and research-intensive companies. Third objective: better use of existing human resources, potential, with a particular focus, the aim of increasing the proportion of women in the field of research, technology and innovation. So they're very clear targets. Mr Lettenbichler has already said that economic policy, research policy is also a lot of psychology. I absolutely agree. Through various surveys, we also receive the confirmation that we as the Federal Government are on the right path. Never was the mood – and the economy is carried by the mood, and the mood gives rise to expectations, we know – in Austria so well. This is pleasing and beautiful and will also be expressed and shown in the next few years in corresponding results. That's what I'm convinced of. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It has already been pointed out by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs that the most important measures and reforms are planned, which is why I should like to point out once again the very useful and successful institutions, particularly in the field of economic and scientific cooperation, scientific research. We have been very successful in Austria for years, and we continue to do so and expand it – the Comet centres: 22 in number, at least with a support volume of 75 million euros. We have the Christian Doppler Labors: 75 in the number, with a support volume of 30 million euros. I believe that the issue of additional labour costs, guarantees from the AWS, support for start-ups, will be dealt with by the Federal Minister, I think, in a replica on Mrs Hammerschmid, or not. – Yes; that’s why I’m saving myself now and get together: [[Federal Minister Schramböck nodds.]] I can say from personal experience that the cooperation between the institutions of application-oriented research, namely the BMVIT and the Federal Ministry of Digitalization and Business Location, works very well. There is sufficient funding for several hundred million euros. Clear targets and programmes are defined. In this area, which is essential for Austria's economic location, the government is on a very, very good path and will continue to do so with all the consequence.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31702	Mrs Becher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31723	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister in the Budget Committee was pleased to welcome the receipt of the WBIB, the WBIB, but a few days later I read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: ‘Wohnbau-Bank WBIB is dissolved’, ‘Rattle rates on country engagement’, ‘Failed federal housing offensive’. The WBIB, the housing investment bank, is the only way to make the ECB’s low interest rate policy accessible to large sections of the population, because non-profit associations and builders with long-term favourable loans can build favourable housing. Now about 40,000 additional apartments cannot be built. It seems that the ÖVP and FPÖ colleagues have no interest in this. Their concept for dealing with social housing in Austria is self-resolving, self-tasking and self-revelation. Another point that I would like to make briefly is the incomprehensible removal from the economic budget of the rehabilitation check. Now only the environmental resort is responsible for the thermal renovation of buildings. Originally, both the environment and the economic sector were responsible for this, and it was understood as both environmental and economic promotion. Small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from the thermal renovation of buildings. The promotion helps to reduce heating costs, and it also helps to make Austria independent from the import of fossil energy sources. The overall economic support is a very useful one. Finally, a brief remark: There is a single area in the budget that proves that rents are reduced, namely at the Bundesmobiliengesellschaft. This is where the rental approaches have been shortened by the Ministries and the Schools. This is a total zero-sum game, that is, the federal government pays itself less in the future. The government owes us an explanation of what this should be good for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31760	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31781	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! First of all on this agenda item on the economy, Mrs Ecker spoke on the subject of economics and Mr Schellhorn on his two keys. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] To this end, I would like to say the following: I am now 12 years here in this House and I do not think I need to explain to anyone who makes better economic policy, especially for small businesses, whether this is the ÖVP or the current government with the FPÖ or whether it is the SPÖ or the Greens; they are now no longer here, from me from the Pilz list. I believe the understanding of the economy and why this country has come to this prosperity – also NEOS, but Mr Schellhorn has said that he is more likely to lock up than he is, so probably he goes into politics, you understand me? – I don't think you need to explain to anyone. [[Abg. Bernhard: We are not all!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This government has come up with a very clear idea: to relieve, to take away less and to reduce red tape and to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to work more freely. There we can talk to entrepreneurs, no matter which, whether of the SPÖ, of the NEOS, of the liberals or of us, of the ÖVP, everyone will support it. I would like to say to the SPÖ Members who are now going out and who say that it is the wrong way to shorten funding, because we are going to meet the little ones right now: Ask the many very small entrepreneurs what they think about promotions! Do you know how many companies in total get funding from total funding throughout Austria? - That's a percentage. Entrepreneurship is to be rebuilt in the way that this government is now doing: taking away less and giving less support for it. At the last meeting, which has not been so long ago, we, at least the government parties, have reduced VAT in the tourist sector from 13 to 10 percent. Do you know what the first reaction of the SPÖ was? – They said: No, we can't do that, we leave it at 13 percent! At the same time, however, a request was made with the demand that the support be given to others, according to the motto: First, let's take something away from the people so that we can satisfy a few more afterwards! The government is on a right path. I honestly say that as an entrepreneur I am proud that I can be there again. It is precisely what has always been called for in the sense of the economy to demand less taxes, to reduce incentives, to reduce bureaucracy and to allow entrepreneurship and employees to work freely so that they can work. The red tape is mainly for the small businessmen, because a hotel with 200 beds today has to comply with the same rules as a guest house with five or ten beds, and the businessman has the same bureaucratic effort. This is precisely what makes micro-enterprises so brave, therefore, as said: less taxes, less promotion! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31830	I now give the floor to Mr Loacker for an actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31854	Madam President. Mr Obernosterer claimed that Mr Schellhorn said he would rather be locked than locked up. I'm actually correcting: Mr Schellhorn said that in many businesses the key no longer locks and they can no longer lock because they no longer get air due to the bureaucracy to lock up.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31895	Mrs Margreiter's next speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e31916	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer! So by the way: Faith means nothing to know. Yes, this federal government will change Austria, but unfortunately in many areas not to improve. The Blue or Turquoise Blue from the sky was promised, Austria would start through, the economy will be unraveled, however, without more precisely saying, which part of the economy. [[Abg. Hauser: 120 days, you know that?]] As you can see now, lobbyism pays off. The last government has launched a comprehensive start-up and SME package, and financial incentives for creating new jobs have been launched, such as the additional wage support for innovative start-ups, and the Business Angel Fund has been increased. These measures were also urgently needed in order to catch up internationally and enable the creation of start-up clusters. Of this elan, of this mood of departure, unfortunately, there is hardly anything to be found in the budget. It will be shortened, deleted and redistributed as you will see immediately. This is justified by you, Mrs Minister, among other things, by the fact that many promoters have not been exhausted and are therefore no longer necessary, and also by the high economy. But that corresponds – you can see that when you look at it – not always to reality. Let us look at the SME investment increase premium, ladies and gentlemen. This premium for small and medium-sized enterprises was an absolute success. The funding pot for 2017 was exhausted early, and according to AWS, 1,900 companies with an investment volume of 1.6 billion euros benefited. Many have therefore had to wait with their request for 2018, but now this measure, as it looks, has been suspended for an indefinite period of time, which is not necessarily a source of trust and education, as I mean. Ladies and gentlemen, this is far from the end of the flag rod. It continues: the AWS Founder Fund: gone; the AWS Business Angel Fund: gone; general funding from the AWS: reduced and reduced to a minimum. You, dear Federal Government, rule over the needs of people. Or explain to me what a founder, who is in the Seed, the so-called founding phase, of a company, is supposed to have of the current high economy! He's got other problems. He is considering how he can bridge the months up to the first sales. I talked to many start-ups, there were different solutions. I may be able to bring you – perhaps there are still some changes – closer to you. For example, the appointment of founders for the first three to six months by a company after a selection procedure would be a solution or the promotion to reduce the founding costs – for example, as you may not know or know, in the whole of Austria there is a single notary that may certify contracts in English – or also grants for the use of infrastructure, space or mobility. Promotion to get talents to Austria: There is a very interesting concept in the USA, namely the L-Visa, which is intended for trained immigrants. This could also be the way to bring trained immigrants to Austria. This is quite an initiative, as I mean, in times of shortage of skilled workers. [[Abg. Höbart: 2015, isn't it? There's a lot of skilled workers coming!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: Specialist invasion!]] Another solution would be participation not only of persons but also of institutions in funding models such as the EAF, Business Angel Fund. There are many, many possibilities. Because I'm always talking about cuts: A group may be pleased, it is the group of those companies that continue to pay less taxes because you are inactive for so long than any sausage level. This is not about peanuts, but about billions that could be used for many, many necessary areas, such as action 20,000. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32006	Next, Mr Höbart. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32027	Madam President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Two points: As Mr Loacker of the NEOS here led a list of rules on which he sums up digitization, I have to say in advance: This federal government has now pooled the digitalizing agents in the economic sector. In other words, digitalization is not decentralized anywhere, but is primarily centralized in the Ministry of Economic Affairs – in order to counter your arguments only once. Secondly, I find it exciting when social democracy takes the word "economy" into its mouth at all. I believe that no party in this Republic has been so anti-economic in recent years, one must almost say, acting like social democracy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, if you bring almost heart-rending arguments towards the new Federal Government, because something is being deleted there or there, I will hold fast – also economically – to: The economy has attracted, and the Federal Government is turning to the right screws to advance the economy. As socialists or social democrats, you have always known the principle of foundry, and you have not learned from the history of the nationalized industry, which has gone along with bombs and grenades, what modern economies mean at all. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We could now begin to define what economics means at all. I would like to write this to you in the main book, but I do not have time for that now. We should all agree on this, including the ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: If the economy is good, people are good as well. The approach of the Federal Government is that we are aware that the economy can only grow and thrive if one recognizes - – they have been the most unsuccessful mayor of Wiener Neustadt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Today, Mr Wittmann, together with the Austrian People's Party, we have to clear this heap of snipers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Finally, it is simply a question of recognizing that the economy can only grow and thrive if the labour force is trained accordingly. This is also reflected in the budget, namely the interaction of entrepreneurs with the workers. [[Abg. Wittmann: Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] Employers and employees in common, this is like a gear that has to work; not so, as you do, by constantly running only pure client policy; and since the times of the nationalists, you have not learned to do so. The economy secures wages and salaries, the economy secures our prosperity. For precisely these reasons, the Federal Government has so massively committed itself to the topic of economics and special discipline digitization. [[Abg. ==References====External links== Wittmann) Municipal credit, Mr Colleague.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Terminal Tower!]] There are two main tasks that we will begin with 2018. One is to safeguard the Austrian economic location and the other to further increase the competitiveness of companies. Now the question is: How do we do that? – There are three objectives: on the one hand, a targeted on-the-spot economic policy, so we want to accompany companies in this structural change and create a framework for innovation and investment-friendly conditions. We also want, as Mrs Minister has already mentioned, to look at the need for skilled workers in coordination with demographic development. Based on the direction in which the economy is developing, professionals are also to be trained accordingly. We also want to operate an active external economy, perhaps even further strengthening the export orientation. 6 out of 10 euros are already generated abroad, perhaps we can do something more. Finally, digitization. I, too, take that word into my mouth. We want to recognize and exploit the potential of digital development in society, namely the interaction of society, management and companies based on a coordinated strategy. The impact targets in the budget are also formulated accordingly. I would also like to briefly mention these four or five objectives of effect. This includes the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Austrian economy with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to further increase the attractiveness of the economic location. Of course, there are also measures to be taken here. So there are not only targets of action, but also measures. We want to strengthen the Austrian foreign economy – I mentioned this earlier. In this context, I would like to mention the Chinese visit that has just been carried out, which has once again been mild, but which we consider to be a very important contribution so that the export orientation of certain companies with very good innovative products can be further driven forward. Finally, we simply want to increase the degree of digitisation for the benefit of society, the economy and the administration. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: It is a very good ambitious budget in subheading 40: In order to make the economic location Austria thrive in the sense of entrepreneurs and employees and workers.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32128	Mr Wittmann spoke on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32181	Mr Höbart has claimed that during my time as mayor, I was not economically successful. [[Abg. Höbart: You can see that now!]] I'm correcting: I have had a balanced budget in all the years of my mayor's time, and I have left 20 million euros to the government that is now in power in which it has used up pitifully. [[Abg. Neubauer: That means not successful!]] But FPÖ economic competence has...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32221	Mr President, I should like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32236	... the terminal tower proved yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32264	The next item is Mrs Wimmer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32285	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In the economic budget, grants amount to 327 million euros for 2018 and 372 million euros for 2019. This includes essentially economic promotion programmes for SMEs and large enterprises and the resulting employment bonus. In the case of investment in economic promotion at this level, it is all the more painful that the employment bonus has suffered the same fate as the 20 000 action and has been discontinued at the beginning of the year. The employment bonus has been created to help businesses to recruit long-term unemployed people. [[Abg. Little: Aha! I thought you didn't want big companies to get promotions!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few years in which I have been able to advise people seeking help, I have met many people who have become unemployed without debt – partly due to illness and partly due to savings; the reasons for this can be very varied, you can see when you deal with it. All had one thing in common: Everyone was afraid – afraid and worried not to find a new job and no more chance. [[New call of the abg. Little.]] After countless, sometimes hundreds of applications, which are often not answered, the hope for a new job and thus the self-esteem and motivation of those concerned is reduced. It is a shame to those seeking employment in our country that there is nothing more in it for these people than for so many funding! [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] This is twice as bad as the funds for the AMS budget are also reduced and, therefore, not enough, is discussed in addition about the abolition of emergency aid. This would result in tens of thousands of people slip into minimum security. All these measures take a group: the job seekers, the unemployed people in our country. For these people this is a downward spiral into poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32341	Mrs Smodics-Neumann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32362	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! If I have only a certain amount of money at my disposal, I will do well to think exactly what I use it for. The gratifying new access to the use of this government's resources is that investments should be expected through return flows, fall on fertile soil and help for self-help. This is a new access. I thank you for this access, because it is a very important one. It is important that one also evaluates things that have not taken hold, and replaces them, or keeps things that grasp. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Bösch and Mr Gudenus on his report.]] It has already been mentioned a few times – I want to shorten it a bit, because I think I have to replicate a bit on some speech contribution –: The Austrian Business Agency, which can create new jobs with an investment of EUR 1 600 per employee, e.g. 2 672 in 2017, will continue and continue. The potential that may result from the good economy or possibly also from the Brexit can be used here. This is about foreign companies that want to settle in Austria. The AWS has also been mentioned several times. It is a highly effective and effective instrument with an effective rate of 1 : 35. That is, 1 million euros of guarantees bring 35 million euros of investment. I believe that this new access is important, which is why I would also like to address Mrs Ecker. I think we have another access. Let me compare this: If someone comes to you and has thirst, then it is highly decent and very social of you to offer him a glass of water. I think it is much more sensible, however, to take the shovel in hand with him and show him how to dig a well. That's what we're talking about with the help of self-help. This creates the freedom to be able to take care of yourself, and not the dependence, always to ask for a glass of water. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To Mr Schellhorn – he's not in the hall, but that doesn't matter – I would have liked to address the following: As a representative in the Chamber of Commerce, I am the classic enemy image for you. It is thanks to the stakeholders to thank the Chamber of Commerce for the fact that it is precisely the things that are going to happen. You asked in your speech earlier to find out in the government programme. So maybe you can. Take it back somethin'. I would like to thank Mrs Bundesminister for her speech; I am a representative of training companies – forgive me if I say so – and I am going down like butter. Thank you for the appreciation! By placing the focus on teaching, you also pass on the appreciation to the training companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is, I believe, a very important initiative and does well for businesses – away from promotions. Sometimes praise also does good, thank you very much for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32422	The next item is the speech by Mr Ottenschlager. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32444	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If I let the discussion happen now a little bit, I have to say that there are a few points very striking. One point is that a NEOS member, Sepp Schellhorn, the spokesperson – he is not here at the moment, he may be campaigning; that is also his right – mainly talking about promotions. [[Abg. New builder: He's never here!]] [[Abg. Stroll: He may have to go to the toilet once!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is gacksi!]] He is talking about funding, the SPÖ representatives are talking about grants and promotions – everything in connection with economic policy. I have a different understanding. I myself am a businessman with my body and soul, I have a family business and have also completed numerous business visits in recent years. There was one thing quite clear: What is essentially two points for colleagues, entrepreneurs and businessmen who really want SMEs: discharge and simplification. I now like the word simplification better than the word debureaucratisation. These were the two main points that all formulated. At the same time, they – and especially the small and medium-sized enterprises – have said that they do not really think of the promotions, because it stops them too much, it stops them almost from their actual business and because – now, for example, I come to the employment bonus – mainly the large businesses benefit from it and not the small ones. [[Abg. Haubner: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Little: That's it!]] Here it is always said that we take away something from the little one. They want simplification and relief, and that is what we stand for. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is already in the government programme or have we already formulated it in our election programme and have been elected for it. My previous speaker has already said it right and some of it before her. I admit, however, that I also say quite openly here that I voted in favour of certain measures during the last legislative period, but with abdominal pain, because I have a different economic understanding. A sustainable economic policy is based on the measures that this Federal Government is now proposing. I think we should support them. That means, once again: Liberation, simplification and less bureaucracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32539	Mr Hörl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32561	Madam President. Dear Federal Ministers! I have been a lot in local companies lately, and I know therefore where the needs of the companies and the subsequent and resulting wishes and demands come from. Of course, one or the other businessman, who has to be an ordinary merchant, is wondering why this does not apply to the state. That is why I thank you for having a clear and correct march towards our state with these budgets. Congratulations also on the ability to do the right thing, with the understanding that successful economies are, of course, only possible at a good economic location that is solidly built. But it is in the companies – and I may give my previous speakers the right – not the promotions that are considered the most urgent wish, but entrepreneurs complain that they have too little air to work. They should take care of their actual tasks. These are to run the company, force the sale, motivate or care for employees, and see that there are new products. - There's a lot going on. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank you very much. You have not only completed many visits to Tyrol, where you have met with many entrepreneurs, but it is also going a little further. It goes a little further in de-bureaucratisation, towards a state close to the citizen, in support of investments and foundations, especially in the innovation field, but also with their commitment to modernising the forms of training. In particular, I mention the skilled workers: 13 teaching professions, of which seven new ones. We have once again implemented the rules of commerce for this year. I think that if the new President Mahrer is in office, we will continue to do so. Above all, one has already been done, namely the extension of the exemption regulation, which is a real success for many entrepreneurs. 18 000 plants are subject to approval. 1.5 million will save the economy, and around 3 million euros of costs will be processed there. – Thank you very much for this on behalf of these many small entrepreneurs! The same applies to the project of digitising important official channels, modernising administration and reducing time-consuming statistics – thanks again! Up to 70 mandated persons categorize and process our businesses. They want to do away with all the statistics that are not established and necessary under European law, thank you very much. All in all: A serious financial policy is a prerequisite for the location. More air to work for entrepreneurs – there we are on a good path. – So on, I support You're welcome!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32600	I call Mr Lopatka. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32621	Madam President. My dear ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank God the mood in the Austrian economy is the opposite of what we have heard from the opposition, especially from the SPÖ. The mood is good and we should use this good mood. This is also in the interests of the workers; I am happy to say this in the direction of SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This Federal Government is willing to benefit from this mood. I hope that the European side will now also come from the wind of the back. According to Macron's speech, Germany – and Germany is the crucial economic nation in the EU – has recognised the need to re-establish competitiveness at European level. The idea of not letting the ministers of finance meet alone in the future, but also of the ministers of the economy creating a sort of Jumbo Council and meeting more often than before, is one that could strengthen Europe. We must have a global view! We must remain competitive worldwide! There's Austria in the middle of it. Austria is one of the top 10 nations per capita when it comes to exports. Last year, exports in Austria reached 140 billion euros. We now decide on a EUR 78 billion budget – just to create a relation – and in 2017 the export economy alone reached EUR 140 billion. In addition to these services, almost EUR 60 billion will be added, i.e. a total of EUR 200 billion. The Minister has already referred to it: More than any second job in Austria is secured directly by the export industry. It is therefore important to set accents here. There's some extra money. You've been talking to go-international. It is very important to give support to young entrepreneurs, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises. In reporting on the great trip to China, it has also been mentioned what politics can do here together with the Chamber of Commerce. That we have profound experts on site is Austria's strength. It is important to have such profound connoisseurs that are almost freeing the way. The decisive thing, however, is the products and the innovative power of Austrian companies in order to be able to stand in international competition. I am glad that you are also putting a further focus on digitisation, because we must do everything we can to stay at the forefront of Europe as an economic nation, as an export nation. It would also be good if the opposition could develop more optimism and more positive strength than it was in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32667	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32688	Madam President. High house! I would like to take up the point made by Mr Lopatka and start very positively: Mrs Federal Minister, I am so grateful to you! For months we all hear here in these series especially from the ÖVP colleagues: New style, new style! I never knew what this new style should be, because the new style was still the old ÖVP policy. I didn't know what such a new style was, but thanks to you and your budget, I think I finally know what this new style is. One can go two ways in digitization. One can be at the forefront of change, as the successful states do. [[Abg. Schnoll: What did the former Federal Chancellor say?]] In terms of objectives, we must consider what we are doing and what could be the greatest goals. We need to become the world's best, and we could also lay this bar. The tension is: What is the path of Schramböck and short in this area? - They do quite differently. [[Abg. Schnoll: You show it before!]] These objectives have been achieved, and this is so very exciting and indeed in the budget, where we intend for the future to achieve things that we have long been able to achieve. In other words, the Minister for Economic Affairs tells us: If we give proper gas over the next few years, if we are quite, quite diligent, then we will do what Mr Mitterlehner did two years ago. Is that ambitious? [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Bißmann and Mr Noll.]] That is, at last I know that this new style should be a mixture of courage, destabilization and, quite, a lot of marketing. I hope that's about what I've done now. In any case, their budget policy suggests this. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] And do you know what's quite exciting? – All over the world – you may know – all the successful states are stricting themselves and saying: We need more start-ups because they work in future-oriented industries because they create jobs. In Austria, we're not just taking the start-ups off the money, no, we're going one step further. Mrs Schramböck says: Actually, we already have too many start-ups. We take out the impact targets and say: It's got to stabilize, it's got to stay the way it is. We already have too many start-ups. – What is this, then, an unruly economic policy? In fact, what you're doing here is inconceivable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And because today the small and medium-sized enterprises have been addressed so often: You could also go the way and say: They're having a hard time anyway. They face milliards like Amazon. It is precisely those that we should somehow help with innovation. These are the local businesses in our cities and communities. What's happening? – This is where the innovation budget is pulled together by 13 percent. 13 per cent less budget for small and medium-sized enterprises, which create jobs on the spot in the cities and communities and are also available for the provision of people. Is that a great policy? That's back! Less 13 percent for small businesses. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's exciting where the money comes from. The Ministry of Digitalization is responsible for digitization, but the money for it simply retains Sebastian Kurz. He needs 20 million euros, he doesn't know what to do, maybe he needs a new homepage, Sebastian Kurz must also be represented online. And then we ask Mrs. Minister: You are responsible for digitization, why is the budget at Sebastian Kurz? Then she says: I don't want to interfere everywhere, everybody has a personal responsibility. – This is a bit of a laisser-fair policy. Why also an overall strategy in the field of digitalisation? This is only the successful states of this world. In Austria we make Laisser-fair. You are doing your Internet courses, which you are now making great announcements in all the federal states. This was already done by the East Railway-Kurti 20 years ago with the Internet. That's all turned backwards, what you're putting on your legs here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] In conclusion: We could really make a few points about this impotent budget, which is being presented here. Digitalization is more, that really needs an overall strategy and not just piecework that you personally present. [[Abg. Bösch: I think you have read the wrong budget!]] – Do you know what minus 13 percent is? You only need to read the numbers once. Unfortunately, this is the disadvantage if you always only believe your own press releases if you no longer look at the facts. This is the disadvantage of this new style of marketing. Someday Believe You yourself, what you are so to speak told by the ÖVP. Nearly 13 percent will be saved! The budget service has proved this; you simply have to take note of that. These are figures and facts, even in times of fake news. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order to make at least one point positive: If it says that it doesn't matter if the small companies argue because we can't help them, the Minister of Economic Affairs doesn't matter, these are so prominent topics, so a minister can't worry about how our business continues in the cities and communities throughout the country, so at least in the social field there is a clear line to be seen. A 53-year-old woman is selected: Whether you have a job or not, we don't care! This is the so-called self-responsibility; it is also an ÖVP proverb. Unfortunately, that's all tragic what you're doing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To sum up: brave. To describe this in this way: Each of us, who made it sometime in his life with great effort on a small hill, is from your point of view a Reinhold Messner, is an extreme sportsman. In all things, the latte is very, very low. In reality, the short budget in the economic sector is quite easy to summarize and bring to a denominator: Medium is the new world class.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32800	Mr Kucher! Your expression of shame is already very close to the border. I ask you to consider this next time. Next item is the report by Mr Kühberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32825	Madam President. Estimated ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Austrians! The double budget 2018 and 2019 is an honest, stable foundation for the future, but also for the present. Mr Kucher! First, you only call percentages without the justification. And second to the start-up companies: You, the SPÖ, were against making crowdfunding. They were the ones against it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ecker.]] Mrs. Colleague! This is the budget that Austrians have chosen. [[Call the SPÖ: They didn't all choose! No one has chosen the budget!]] They've chosen change, and that's not a bad budget, that's responsibility. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And this budget is living responsibility for the location Austria, the You're talking bad, but we're certainly not going to let this go bad. Because we talked about digitization: Plus 20 million euros, in combination with the broadband billion. [[Abg. Cakes: They've already been there!]] That's there, but we've put it up, and we need it. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: “Feed up”! That's right!]] Mr. Collegue! We need that. They are from rural areas; we discussed this yesterday. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] 70 percent of people live there, and this digitization requires our small and medium-sized enterprises, because they create high-quality jobs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am mayor of a Styrian community; I know what I am talking about. High-quality jobs are important to us, and we need them. This more than successful budget therefore stands and strengthens with all its actions in particular in the light of the rural areas you have addressed. It thus ensures the preservation of these strong, sustainable spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32909	The next item is Mrs Cox. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e32930	Madam President. Dear representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, on the screens! Start-ups, yes, a trend word, one could almost say a buzzword, but it's also going to the other side and is also more of an incentive; especially when you've been listening to the last hour, but not only the media coverage, but also the election campaign. When I think about how it was eight years ago when all of us laughed and said: Can't you have German? And now it's in every mouth that's good. The question is: In what way does this happen? These are people who have the Cojones, people who have the courage – Mr Gudenus, the courage to translate for you – not only to speak of solutions, but also to implement them. [[Abg. Gudenus: What?]] [[Abg. Kassinger: After hello!]] And that's the big difference, and that's exactly what our country needs, that we not only talk about problems, we talk about solutions, we also implement them. These are also the people who bring Austria, as you so much like to say, back to the top. I actually think we're pretty far up there, but these are people who are dealing with technologies that not only lead Austria but shoot at the moon and other planets. In other words, these people who face and implement current challenges are people who deal with AI, blockchains, things for which some others do not have the time and not the need, or simply say: Yes, take care of it! And they're taking care of it, too. These are start-ups for me, and these are for me the people who are behind them. In the final effect: You can have the best product in the world, you can have the best idea, but there are still people who are behind it, and people who are very, very often implementing it. We must not forget that! But what happens on the political stage? – I would say that a game of mourning on this subject. Once we take a step back: SPÖ and ÖVP entered a marriage some years ago and brought a child to the world: the start-up package. What happened? – Incredible good ideas came out of the scene. People who have founded themselves have said: They finally understand us! We can implement our innovations. We want to stay in Austria, we want to get investment here and we don't just play with the thought of going abroad. – That means that in the start-up scene, this has brought a lot of positive response and a lot of courage. But then what happened? – The divorce came, and the start-up package became a divorce child, a stepchild. That means: Nothing more with Hashtag-founderland number one that came out of your ranks. [[In the direction of ÖVP:]] Eher: Something in the direction Add-on costs – we have already heard that – eliminate risk capital premium. It is not just that, but one is now talking about topics such as connection financing. And I ask myself the question, Mrs. Minister: How does that work? Connecting finance, what does that mean? It is important and right to deal with such issues. But it is not about inventing further trend words without filling them with life. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Because of what happened to the start-up package, you have created a lot of frustration. I was told again only yesterday – and I am constantly in conversation with investors: Please leave me outside! I am happy to have worked on the first proposal in 2016, but keep me out of it, because in the final effect, politics will do what it wants. - That hurts me. It hurts me because I think: These are people, these are capable people who want to invest money, who want to drive innovation in the country, and they're so in the head if you just keep doing things the way you used to, and if you don't take them away now and say: Okay, lower pay side costs, risk capital premium would be important. No, you have to get them into the boat when you talk about innovation, but you also want to promote start-ups and thereby innovation. [[Abg. Haubner: Everyone can invest wherever they want!]] For this, it is important to stop viewing the start-up package as a stepchild. We need to support people, we need not only to recognize the problems and find solutions, but also to implement them.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33002	There is now no mention of this. The discussions on this subject are thus complete. [[14:12:31]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33024	I declare that the request supported by at least 46 Members. 3/US on the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure concerning ‘the political impact on the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism’. This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. The desire is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[14:13:08]] UG 42: Agriculture, nature and tourism UG 43: Environment, energy and climate
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33295	We now come to the consultation of Divisions 42: Agriculture, nature and tourism as well as 43: Environment, energy and climate on which a joint debate takes place. Mr Fichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33324	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! At the beginning of the debate on the environment budget, an announcement was made: The Minister for the Environment and the representatives of the government groups will tell us in the next good hour that the budget will not be reduced, all projects and measures will be implemented and everything will be best in the field of the environment in Austria anyway. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In addition to the fact that the Secretary-General of the Industrial Union, an organization which is not now known as particularly anti-governmental, Christoph Neumayer, said that – I quote – “the reductions in climate and the environment are to be taken into account,” the budget figures in the UG 43 speak a clear language. The federal financial framework laws from 2018 to 2022 contain a reduction of the funds from around 627 million to around 537 million euros, which made it clear yesterday on the climate and energy strategy that the Federal Minister of Finance did not prevail in the budget negotiations and had the true saying in the environmental field of the Finance Ministers. The resources for thermal rehabilitation are falling, the allocation of the climate fund is declining, the investment aid for environmental promotion is falling domestically, the promotion of district heating is no longer being made. The ever-informed commitment of the Federal Government to the fulfilment of the commitments from international conventions and to the achievement of the climate objectives – the key to Paris climate agreement – does not at all coincide with the present budgeting. A climate and energy strategy, Mrs. Federal Minister, without any financial donation, has been condemned from the outset to fail. Claim and reality are far apart. A note on the topic of employment loan contracts drawn up yesterday by the ÖVP in the Federal Chancellor's staff sector: Given the large number of employees of the Federal Minister of the Environment, who are employed by the Federal Environment Agency and working on loan contracts, it is likely that in the direction of ÖVP we can say that: If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones. But then also in an answer to a question, Mrs. Federal Minister, that decisions by external companies – in this case the Federal Environment Agency – on the appointment of employees who were only employed by the Federal Environment Agency to be awarded to your cabinet do not concern any subject of the execution of your ministry, really already exceeds the border to increase Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Once more: It's not saving in the system, it's saving people.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33374	The next item is the speech by Mr Strasser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33395	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President! I should like to make a few comments on the budget, in particular on the agricultural budget. First of all, I should like to say that the budget is generally a matter of sustainability and stability, and the concept of sustainability, which I have mentioned in my previous speech, comes from the forestry sector and so on. defined that you only take away from a forest what really grows. This basic attitude is shown in the budget, because despite the fact that 2.5 billion euros are saved and the people in that country are relieved, there will be a stability in the future in the way that we spend only the money that we also take in. This will be assured in the next few years. A great congratulations to the Federal Minister, congratulations to the Federal Government that all of this has succeeded! From the agricultural budget some figures: The total budget for sustainability and tourism 2018 is around 2.9 billion euros. In the field of agriculture, nature and tourism, the budget is increased by around 80 million euros and – for colleagues Feichtinger! – a budget increase of around 19 million euros in the area of environment, energy and climate. From the point of view of farmers, I should like to thank you very much, because there are stable conditions for us too. I would like to say that the public funds, which make up a large part of our income, are justified and absolutely necessary for us to develop the rural structures, the rural family farms in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It will also be necessary in the future to send signals to the mountain area, to the alpine economy and to the countryside, but also – on current occasions – to the favor and the farming because there are areas where the shoe is pressing. I should like to mention the situation of Austrian beet farmers, who are currently experiencing a great crisis. We will have to think together about whether we want to secure local sugar production in Austria. I believe that this will also be a common goal here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, a short current account of farmers – our contribution in this country – is: A farmer feeds 106 Austrians. The proportion of women among managers is 40 percent. As far as the youth is concerned, 12 percent of the managers are under 35 years of age – in European comparison, we have the second most recent structure. I can inform you that about 50 percent of Austrian family businesses are already in acquisition and acquisition. This too is a sign of our small-scale structures, which are really important to all of us. Austria's agriculture provides around 530 000 jobs. So that's a nice current account. I should like to thank Mrs Köstinger and Mr Löger once again. The budget is making us brave. The budget is also a task for farmers to make their contribution to this country in the future. I can promise you that from this point of view. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33455	The next item is the report by Mrs Doppelbauer. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33492	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! We have already mentioned yesterday that the government in the budget, above all has set a focus, and this is the maintenance of the status quo. This principle also applies to agriculture. Now we can say that this is not a problem in the field of agriculture. But I see it differently. I see this as a problem, especially if you want taxpayers to be used transparently and efficiently. As the data of Statistics Austria show, there is a lack of efficiency in particular. If you see that gross value added in agriculture – in short to the explanation: this is the production value less the intermediates – has actually remained constant since 2008, while the rest of the economy has increased by about 20 percent, then you can say that this is not very successful. 2013 to 2016 – if I am not fooled by everything – was spent 1.1 to 1.8 billion euros per year on funding funds. Despite these expenditures, however, nothing goes further or in the right direction in agriculture. It is therefore time to think about a more meaningful use of resources in agriculture. When you look at how to achieve real growth in the economy, there are essentially two approaches: On the one hand, one can say that one goes further in the production volume – as a net exporter, that would be something you can say – and on the other hand, one can increase the quality. Especially as a small country and with this topography that Austria has, of course, it would be more than useful to go towards quality. We therefore need to adopt, in the first step, a promotion according to quantitative criteria and instead better force our quality products on the market or better position them on the market. There is no need to reinvent the wheel in this respect, for Mr Fischler has already said in the 1990s that Austria must become the fine food shop of Europe so that we are competitive. So we should focus less on the export of pig heads and pigshaxers to China, but rather on the export of high-quality and high-quality products, especially organic products. It actually raises the question of how we produce real growth through quality in the field of agriculture. From our point of view, there is a solution that is quite clear: Let's let the farmers be entrepreneurs! Let's focus on entrepreneurship! We support their entrepreneurial activities and give them more innovation promotions! Contrary to the national prejudice – which is always often influenced in the media – that farmers are not innovative, but poor hazelln, to which you have to help somehow, we know that reality is a whole, quite different. At the courts there are permanent adjustments and innovations developed by the farmers themselves with much endurance, know-how and also with much use of resources to cope with their situation. A number of things that I find extremely exciting: In the period from 2011 to 2015, almost 80 percent of local farms were made new in products, services, production-related processes or also in the organization. This is 20 percent more innovation than in the rest of the economy. So if there are votes, they say that agriculture is not innovative: The figures say exactly the opposite. However, farmers have not yet been able to rely on government support, as the Wifo clearly says that direct innovation support in agriculture is very small in European terms. If you also see that the funds for research and development in agriculture are minimal – that is 1 percent of gross value added – then you have to say that this is simply not enough and we are in Europe's lowest third. Especially in this area, we need to start to generate growth. Instead, there are signs, Mrs. Köstinger, that funding should be deducted from the field of organic production in order to continue to drive conventional agriculture. It would therefore be removed money from an area that works and which develops perfectly on the market, and entered into an area where we will never be competitive in life. This is the wrong way for agriculture! We therefore demand that gross value added by means of quality as an effective objective, innovative and sustainable enterprises should be specifically promoted and that all existing funding should be evaluated for their efficiency; we all know it and you all know that greening is particularly critical. All funding must be clearly based on appropriate criteria and must also meet these criteria, and I do not exclude all payments in the public welfare services. Mrs Bundesminister, choosing the right key figures, is a first step. I very much hope that with your expertise you will also take the next steps to increase the reliability of the entire support programmes, because that is what we need in order to lead in the future, above all, entrepreneurship and sustainable agriculture. You need to be actively involved in your current function! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33561	I call Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33583	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For my colleague Feichtinger, a short follow-up to the environmental budget – cast in figures –: 104 million euros of environmental support in the country, 37 million euros of climate and energy funds, 57 million euros of waste disposal and 350 million euros of urban water management. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Comparison numbers!]] All these are funds that are explicitly used for environmental protection in this country. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Also a follow-up hour with regard to the priorities in the protection against natural hazards: The budget measures in the field of flood protection in Austria cover 200 million euros in the two years 2018 and 2019 alone. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger:... said it's all in the best order!]] There are also measures being taken. We invest more in flood protection to protect our citizens and our people. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another measure is EUR 162 million in the area of protection measures in the Federal Waters and also in the area of interest waters. These measures will also explicitly benefit citizens. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Comparison numbers!]] This is a measure of protection against natural disasters – as is already known in the media – in the last two days in Styria, Graz, parts of my home country are also affected – which we can now do with this package. This is a decisive move in the Federal Government: directly to help people and directly on the ground. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our explicit thanks to the intervention agencies – the fire brigade, the federal army and also the rescue – who have been working intensively in the last few days. Further concrete objectives and actions of this Federal Government in the coming years are: to implement the climate and energy strategy and also to make it concrete, to create an air-resource strategy, to reform eco-electric support, to develop a new energy law, to evaluate and further develop energy and energy-related funding. – These are all measures that benefit environmental protection, and that is good! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, we have also put in place measures and initiatives in the field of the circular economy and the recycling industry. Forcing waste prevention – also an essential factor in the circular economy – and, of course, the recovery of resources are also measures that this Federal Government has enshrined and committed in its government programme. Another point is the creation of a framework for a comprehensive and efficient recycling measure concerning the areas that are being installed – these are about ten football fields every day. There are also measures to stop us so that we can maintain our areas to the best of our knowledge and conscience, in order to enable sustainable management, but also a comprehensive spatial planning. We will, of course, also implement measures in this area which, through national competence, also concern countries, but we have an explicit strategy of dealing with land consumption accordingly. One point is microplastics, which is in our waters, and the consumption of plastic in general. There are also measures that we have explicitly included in this framework programme for the 2018/2019 budget. So there are measures that will also protect us in this area and promote our health. Mrs Bundesminister, thank you for this framework, thank you for this budget and also thank you for our future in the next two years! We are on a good path in the environmental field.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33676	Mrs Bundesminister Köstinger spoke. Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33697	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. For the first time since 1954, the Federation will spend less than it takes. This means, of course, that we all know in our departments, a lot of effort. My place of business also feels clearly committed to this goal of saving in the system. To UG 42, i.e. agriculture, nature and tourism, the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism brings savings, but – and I believe it is really crucial to say that – three priorities are clearly out of dispute: Firstly, there will be no real reductions in EU direct payments give, the funds are 100% secured. Secondly, there will be no real reduction in rural development, including EU funds and, in particular, the very important national co-financing share. And in the third extremely important budget area in my department, in the UG 42, protection against natural hazards, there will also be no cuts, but even a slight plus. The total budget for sub-division 42 amounts to EUR 2,218 billion in 2018 and EUR 2,221 billion in 2019. Let me keep a few details on this: 2018 and 2019 will be the last phase of the transition to the regional model for direct payments in the area of the first pillar of the common agricultural policy. In this area, EU funds amount to EUR 1.282 billion for 2018 and EUR 1.285 billion for 2019. This global budget provides for around EUR 822 million of EU and federal funding for rural development. The market regulation measures and also those in the fisheries sector carried by the European Union amount to around 661 million euros in 2018 and around 665 million euros in 2019. We estimate in the field of direct payments – as one of the most important safety networks especially for our agricultural holdings in the field of volatile market prices – around 635 million euros in 2018 and around 638 million euros in 2019. In addition, some 58 million euros are available for 2018 and 47 million euros for 2019 in national support for agricultural and regional policies. The changes resulting from the Federal Ministry Act are also mentioned. EU funding from the Regional Fund and also national funding for spatial planning policy are now taken into account in the UG 42 – this was a major change. In addition, continuity in the promotions carried over will be ensured in particular in the area of tourism. More than 30 000 tourism companies across Austria benefit from the already decided reduction in sales tax from 13 to 10 percent. This, of course, also makes it possible to invest urgently. We are particularly concerned with small and medium-sized tourism companies such as pensions, campsites and family farms. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The total volume of this tax reduction is around 120 million euros per year, and the loss in the budget is borne by the federal government by two thirds, the rest being divided by countries and municipalities. Protection against natural hazards is of the utmost importance to me in the area, because these measures are on the one hand increasing the safety of the population and, on the other hand, are, of course, also of economic importance to us. These are very clearly prevention measures. We foresee around 216 million euros for 2018 and 222 million euros for 2019 in this area of forestry and water resources and the management of natural hazards. As you can see, there will be no savings at the expense of the next generation, because we will save ourselves from the state. In my area, the real savings are primarily due to the actual expenditure on services and national funding, including the low interest rates on agricultural investment loans. With this budgetary policy, we set clear priorities and strengthen the whole rural area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We are mainly concerned with the equivalence of living conditions in rural areas. We are mainly concerned with small-structured rural farms, which urgently need to be strengthened, because they provide us with safe and quality High-quality food and of course manage our cultural area in a sustainable way. That is why we are committed to a forward-looking policy – with a budget that has a lasting effect, which will focus on the next generation and which will, above all, include the end of debt policy. In summary, I hold the UG 42: Although savings have been made, they have been made in the right places, in bureaucracy and in administration. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33775	Thank you, Mrs. Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Bißmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33812	Madam President. Mrs Federal Minister, thank you very much for your words! I just want to remind you of a use in this house: The Minister or the Minister shall only speak if a person has already spoken per group. – But you listen to me all the more attentive now. [[Congratulations with list Pilz, SPÖ and NEOS.]] Yesterday, we debated in detail climate change, its impact and the alleged courage, but not really courageous, climate policy of the government. The speeches by the Members of the Government have shown the right to criticise the government's climate policy. These were very thin in content, if not even substanceless. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The speeches by the opposition parties have shown how broad the alliance is of rejection and criticism. It's not like we're just categorical about what the government is presenting just because it's from the government. It's really not like that. This broad alliance of rejection and criticism of climate policy is also found in the population. I would now like to demystify a few figures to give a little guidance to our spectators and to the people to confirm that the criticism is justified. In the present Federal Estimate for 2018, the projected payments in the fields of environment, energy and climate are estimated at 627 million euros. But not all of these funds go directly to climate protection. If we put this figure in relation to the current costs of not dealing with climate change, this is already 2.1 to 4.2 billion euros per year: 627 million euros on the one hand, 2.1 to 4.2 billion euros on the other, damage versus investment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schnoll.]] And it does not appear that these investments in climate protection are to increase, no, they are being shortened. Ms. Federal Minister, the costs of not dealing with climate change – you took this into your mouth yesterday – will rise and from 2050 will amount to EUR 8.8 billion. Only in Austria do we have 8,8 billion euros of damage to climate change every year, if we do nothing. There is a variable share of EUR 5 billion that we can avoid if we act. [[Abg. Where did the numbers come from?]] – This is a study of the Climate and Energy Fund, commissioned by the government. Another myth is that Austria is such a pioneer country in the energy transition and the fight against climate change and the 100 percent growth target is praised from the front to the back. The thing is just the: For many years, we have had 70 percent share of renewable energy in electricity generation, but this is the large hydropower, which was built after the Second World War and has long been depreciated. Today we have 72 to 75 percent, depending on the water year, that's not great. The pioneer country at the energy transition in Europe is surprisingly a completely different country. [[Abg. Schnöll: In Graz the Peter Pilz demonstrated against hydropower!]] It is Portugal, an economically much weaker country in that country than Austria. Portugal achieved 100 percent renewable energy in the electricity mix in March this year. [[Abg. Schnöll: In Graz the Peter Pilz demonstrated against the hydropower last year! That's the reality!]] – Yes, we are not for the total expansion of the small hydropower, there are other alternatives. Let's look at the hydrogen, let's look at the concentrated solar thermal energy! – Yes, yes, you have to look at it differently. [[Abg. You're against everything!]] You're very, very right. Another myth is that we are well on the road in climate protection, it is said that emissions in Austria are falling. This is also claimed by the government in presenting the climate strategy. But it's only possible to say that if you cheat a little bit with the numbers. Today's greenhouse gas emissions are still higher than 1990. Now they are supposed to be in decline, but this is because you use the reference year 2005, a year in which emissions were as high as ever in Austria and throughout the EU. That is, reference year 2005, yes, the emissions have decreased, but now they are already on the rise again and we are still over the reference year 1990. We are substituting the EU in the climate change targets and the EU is substituting the Paris International Climate Change Agreement. [[Abg. Black: That's a joke!]] A final sentence on eco-social tax reform: I can't believe we still don't have it in Austria. It's not a non-world project. Today, this reform is State of the Art in tax and environmental policy, and more and more countries are introducing it. Not only our domestic economists, also the International Monetary Fund, OECD and the World Bank are voting in favour of the eco-social tax reform. You must not frustrate the word tax increase, because we charge taxes on what contaminates, on CO2, and we reduce taxes on the other hand to what we need more, namely work. And overall, it looks nice, the consumer has no extra burden. We will tell this story here so many times and so long and so intensively until we have finally implemented an eco-social tax reform in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33920	This is what the honourable Member is talking about. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33941	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The reference to the use of the house may be legitimate and correct, but I think it's a little small. [[Abg. Scherak: What's small?]] You should also look at your predecessor's party a little more closely, because this moralising, raised pointing finger every time, these school masters don't need people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is about the truth and finally it is also about how seriously we represent these issues here, and if we are in this list of errors, then we could also complain that you were not even present in the Chamber yesterday at the so urgent request you have put in this House in your own speech. [[Abg. Scherak: But it's still our house!]] I would like to take a short look at this and believe that it is also good that the areas of agriculture, nature, the environment and energy are being processed in a single block and that we can treat them together here in the budget. The colleague of the NEOS has previously pointed out the funding in agriculture. In my opinion, there is a fundamental mistake in buying-in somewhere with you if you believe that the output of the subsidies is the pure productivity of agriculture. Unfortunately, this is not the case with God, because in the end we are talking about compensatory payments, payments that are necessary, as Austrian farmers in an international market environment can no longer achieve full performance and ultimately prices on the products, but above all it is also a compensation for additional benefits that are provided. This means that we are in the energy sector: It is the added power that we can guarantee extensive nature and tourism protection with every Austrian food. Austrian tourism needs the ticket to an intact environment, and it is now maintained by agriculture and forestry. We have excellent water quality. This is also an important factor, even these are only with intact agriculture, and there is no direct influence at all, but often it is the forestry that, through its large forests, operates an active meadow management, which also has a conservation effect. We have seen in Graz what it means if one does not manage the areas accordingly, how quickly water masses can then be poured out at heavy rain events. Not least, with the forest in Austria, we have one of the largest energy suppliers in the field of biogenic possibilities that we can also use in the context of the climate and energy strategy for Austria, and without agriculture and forestry we will not do so. We want to put forward a climate and energy strategy and a budget path, which is without burden to the citizens, just as the entire budget path of this government is at the end of the day, in which we do not work with punishment taxes, but with possibilities. We have also presented the ten lighthouses again and again, I would like to repeat them briefly: Green Finance, 100 000 roof program in photovoltaics, thermal renovation, heat from renewable energy, electromobility offensive, all these possibilities can also be found in this budget. The consolidation of this budget is ultimately due to environmental concerns. We need to improve protection against natural disasters. I believe that climate protection should not be seen as punishment, but as an opportunity, so that we can generate jobs in Austria and create a clean climate. – The Federal Government has adopted this task in the future, and it is also reflected in the budget of Minister Köstinger's department.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e33997	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34018	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciate Seers! Today, we are debating the budget for sustainability, i.e. specifically for agriculture and rural areas for the years 2018 and 2019. [[Put a potato and an apple on the speaker'spoil]] First of all, I would like to thank the farmers very much for their work, which they do to ensure food supply in Austria. But I am also very grateful to all consumers who are very happy to buy also national products. A warm thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the future, the foreign exchange must say that the producers also have the result with their incomes, but also that consumers can also afford the domestic national products in the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, the present double budget for 2018 and 2019 is not ambitious and also has many gaps as regards sustainability, although in 2018 and 2019 approximately EUR 2.2 billion are budgeted. Today's written response to the question, 1 p.m., shows that there are savings of around 61 million euros in this respect, and that there are also savings in the field of rural development of 28 million. – Just so much to the previous statements. However, I am also incomprehensible that the financial resources for avalanche protection and water conservation will be reduced by more than 25 million in 2018 compared to last year 2017. It seems that the Federal Government is already aware that there are fewer natural disasters in the current year 2018. – Wherever, I'm completely unknown. Well, in many areas of the budget, there is simply a continuation of the 2017 budget items, including on organic farming. Here is a sum of 112 million euros for organic farming. We know that we are bio-European champions in Austria, but we also know that organic farming areas should be expanded so that we can continue to play this pioneering role. I am firmly convinced that we need to force exports with even more emphasis, so that excellent bioquality products such as this organic potato or this bioapple can continue to be found on the counts of the Austrian households and can also be more exported. [[Keeping the potato on top of the speaker’s mouth briefly in height]] [[Keeping the apple on top of the speaker's mouth briefly in height]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A broadcast of the Austrian Chamber of Agriculture shows that 2025, i.e. in seven years, the number of farms will be reduced by 25 percent. The reason is a structural adjustment. Mrs. Sustainability Minister, as I think you cannot see, you have to face this with action. That is to say, farmers will be less affected, farmers will die, fewer farms will get more money by promoting land. In doing so, Mrs Minister, you are forgetting the financial security of the rural family farms, the auxiliary farmers, the mining farmers in category 3 and 4 and also the direct marketing establishments. Small farmers' support – also an example where people's backs are reduced and saved – still includes EUR 1 250 per holding, which is the same amount as in 2014. Ms. Sustainability Minister, you want to implement and implement the rural master plan, but you have not said in the Committee, nor now, how high the costs have been and whether there are no remaining payments for 2018 for the preparation of various brochures, for advertisements or benefits in kind. The Master Plan, we know, is an important instrument for the overall development of the rural regions and should therefore also be subject to a parliamentary process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the Committee you said that this was not necessary, that is to say, the implementation and implementation of the Master Plan goes beyond Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly: The bees research project comprises 70 000 euros for 2018 and 681,000 euros for the entire duration of the programme, which is to be assessed positively in principle. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Talk time!]] Unfortunately, a corresponding request from the government groups on glyphosate did not find the way into the last Committee on Agriculture. This shows that in order to protect the insect diversity and bees, as far as pollination and organic farming are concerned, there seems to be only lip recognition by the government, but no sustainability. We do not want conditions as in China, where pollination is already carried out by drones. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have also said, Mrs Minister, that you are in favour of strengthening rural areas. I cannot believe this because of the reduction in the financial resources in the field of social services, as far as the second pillar of the CAP is concerned. 118 million euros will be available for this in the coming year 2019. In 2019 – and this is also important to me – the federal government's payment of transfer payments to municipalities, to parents and also to affected single parents say and write only 1 000 euros for the entire federal territory. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Talk time!]] That is why I think you are not saving in the system, Mrs. Sustainability Minister, but you and your ministry are saving people on a sustainable basis. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34101	The next item is the speech by Mr Hauser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34123	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I have now followed the debate more or less throughout the day and it seems to me that I am really in the wrong film. What do you learn from the previous debate? – This is now heading towards SPÖ: Opposition work must also be possible, that must be learned, and above all the opposition work must also be credible. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] They have placed the Federal Chancellor for ten years, this government has been in office and dignity for 120 days. Ten years are 3 600 days, and you come out after 120 days and say what the government has not done. Dear Members of the SPÖ, this is a perfect self-esteem! Why didn't you do that? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You lack any credibility! I would like to remind you of the sheer piles you left behind in the area of tourism – also for the people outside and for all people in front of the TV: You have known to have increased VAT. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: weren't you?]] – The Federal Chancellor is the head of the Republic. I can't blame the department manager in a company if the company doesn't work. [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: Learn Constitution!]] You mentioned to the government that you have increased VAT, which was more than EUR 300 million for the accommodation companies over the years, 120 million per year. You have only caused 55 million changeover costs for businesses. You have extended the depreciation period in tourism from 25 years to 40 years – inconceivable, an attack on tourism! You have introduced red tape without number: Allergensverordnung – Gold Plating. Smoker History: First you have let the entrepreneurs invest and said: You have freedom of choice, so invest, make smoking and non-smoking areas! The investment had scarcely been made, she says: Etsch, bäsch, all retour, now comes the total ban on smoking! – This is not a policy! The entrepreneurs were frustrated. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Funny that the ÖVP also claps!]] It has widened an end-time mood in the industry, and through this government, through this restart of us with the ÖVP appears optimism. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This optimism has widened in the industry. Of course, the good winter that contributed a lot of snow, but the tourism companies feel that this government wants to do something new. Throughout the budget debate, you have spoken of lost opportunities, lost budget – we are going a new way: Stop the loads, work must pay off, down the taxes to 40 percent, even that's enough! This signal's coming out. And thank God we succeeded in reducing VAT from 13 to 10 percent. How does the SPÖ model look? – I quote from Parliament's correspondence about the last meeting in which the SPÖ tourism speaker underrunner represents the reduction of VAT as follows – and there is a view of socialist policy, of how tax policy looks and how the new policy of ÖVP and Blue looks; I quote colleagues Unterrainer –: ‘Instead of 120 million. To distribute € with the ‘fort can’ – that is, everyone should continue to pay – would, in their opinion, be more useful to focus on structural problems in tourism and to target poor yields of small businesses. So we take the money of 30,000 businesses and distribute it in the direction of those farms that unfortunately God cannot exist on the market. That's how honest, good, healthy politics cannot look out, that's old politics, that's SPÖ policy, that's a policy that has failed for decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a fundamental word, as we are on the subject of tourism: We were on the ITB, and I also followed the cultural debate here in the House yesterday with excitement. In the direction of SPÖ, I say: I don't care if someone is gay or not gay, lesbian or not lesbian, that has everyone to choose for themselves, but that Austria is a cultural nation, Vienna is a cultural capital, is indisputable. But how did the Vienna Tourism Association act at ITB? – They were represented on three booths without any reference to a cultural highlight. However, there was a hint: Vienna, the lesbian and gay capital. That was the message you sent on the ITB. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] If you look at the website of the Vienna tourist advertising – and Vienna is ruled on the left – you can see how to deal with the valuable cultural heritage of the Republic of Austria, with our heritage. [[Call the NEOS: This is so provincial!]] I quote the messages of the Vienna Tourism Association: “The capital of Austria breathes gay and lesbian history like hardly any other European metropolis. Schwele Kaiser, warlords and composers of yesterday as well as gay and lesbian Viennans of today make the city an exciting holiday destination.” [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is how successful cultural policy cannot look! [[Call the NEOS: That's embarrassing what you're talking about!]] – Let us be glad that, together with the ÖVP, we have also made a cultural turnaround!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34263	Member of Parliament Michael Bernhard has been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member. [[Further calls and calls at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[The President gives the bell sign.]] Mr Michael Bernhardist. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and of
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34302	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I am sorry that you have had to endure the statements made by Mr Hauser, I am enjoying that in this House. [[Prolonged applause with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] However, I would like to go back to the issue we are currently discussing, namely the environmental budget. In the environmental budget, I have a very basic issue: the question of honesty. During the discussion on the 2017 budget, I made a request to Minister Rupprechter at the time. My specific question was: What measures can be taken in the environmental budget for climate action? A written answer was that he spoke of his own package of EUR 100 million for 2017 in order to put in place additional climate protection measures. – This is all detectable, detectable and logged. In the 2017 review, we note that no single euro of the EUR 100 million for climate protection measures announced at the time has actually flowed. Nothing has flown in Austria. It is also not really anything in addition to the so-called Green Climate Fund, which developed countries provide additional support to other countries in order to implement measures in their own country. The topic from 2017 is still true for me. The then Federal Minister just lied to me. With this premise, I have now asked new questions to the new Minister for the Environment and Sustainability. She chose a more elegant form, she just didn't answer me. So they didn't tell me, they just didn't answer my questions in time. It is one of the practices of the National Council that questions relating to the budget are answered even before the budget debate. So those questions that interest me have not been answered until today. If you look at how the environmental budget is developing in the next few years, you can see: It is stagnating, it remains stable, even though one knows that in certain areas, above all climate protection, there is a clear need to invest in addition. What's remarkable is: 2018 and 2019 it is a relatively stable budget, a falling from 2020 onwards. This is partly due to the urban water economy and its promotion, but it also affects the classical areas of environmental promotion and climate protection. The questions I have asked here have unfortunately not been answered. One can conclude from this budget that in future there will be less for nature, biodiversity, the environment and life in the country; unfortunately, to what extent, I cannot say. But what I can say is that we miss opportunities. It is appropriate that there has been a press release of Statistics Austria today, which shows where we stand in the environmental economy. It's very exciting to come up with a few numbers. We had a turnover of 34.2 billion euros in 2016 – which has just been completed – as well as 183,071 employees, workers in this field – that is, without public transport, as it is expected otherwise – and we had a gross value added of about 13.3 billion euros. That is to say, it is an economic sector that is actually relevant to Austria. He lives very strongly on innovation, which is recognized by the fact that the research rate at 6.5 percent per year is more than twice as high as in the rest of the economy. That is, companies that do well can expand those that are located in an innovative country that research, strengthen the location enormously and bring many benefits to the future. All of this does not happen because of the sustainability policy of this government – and not the last – but despite the sustainability policy of the last governments. Now I would finally ask the question in the room: What could we get out of our country if we were to push forward a proper sustainability policy and not a acquis-keeping policy? Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34366	Mr Obernosterer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34388	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister, you are not only responsible for the environment and sustainability, but also for tourism, and if you look at the tourism budget, then – I have to say quite honestly – you can be more than satisfied as a tourist. The line of the new Federal Government, to relieve and less tax, runs completely. One of the first actions of the Federal Government and of you, Mrs. Federal Minister, was the request to reduce VAT on accommodation companies from 13 to 10 percent, which for these approximately 30 000 companies in Austria amounts to approximately 120 million euros. I think there is no better support for businesses than for those to take them away from the tax burden and let them have more money in the house that they can invest in the company again. At the same time, however, it has also succeeded in maintaining the budget of Austria's advertising, i.e. it has not been shortened. However, we also know that it was always possible to make a special budget available for certain special actions of Austria, depending on the urgency, which it is not currently looking forward to, but, as I said, the budget remains unchanged. It also maintained the funds for the Austrian hotel loyalty, for interest-rate support, for the investments carried out through the tourism bank. That is to say, the area is sufficiently well-informed, and it can therefore also be used for all applications submitted and approved there. As regards the Ministry of Finance: It has even become possible to raise from EUR 250 million to EUR 375 million what has already been decided in the 17th century to implement in the 18th century, namely the liability for tourism investments carried out through the Austrian Tourism Bank. This ensures that for the next one and a half years, all the applications made by the companies investing can also be handled accordingly. One of the main themes is the debureaucratisation, which is very important especially for the tourist sector. Many entrepreneurs or most entrepreneurs say: Less bureaucracy is the best promotion so that we can take more care of our work and especially the many small hosts, who have to cover practically everything, do not just sit behind the desk. To sum up, you can say: positive. Winter has gone positively. My previous speaker Hauser has already firmly anchored tourism in his speech, he has also addressed the ITB in Berlin, which we have visited, Mrs. Federal Minister. I have to say: There was also the overall Austrian stand, which really presented Austria as it was supposed to present itself with its mountains, lakes and cultural sites, so it was a pleasure to be an Austrian in Berlin at this stand. In total, I look positively in favour of the tourism industry in the coming summer season. The winter was good, and as I said: Less burdened, more relief is the best promotion that tourism can experience. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34436	Mrs Bißmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. There are only more than 14 minutes available. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34473	Mr President. Honourable spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, a giant government delegation opened up to visit the middle empire to make billions of heavy deals there. One of these deals was: Pigs for China. – Above all, this sounds good: Here remain the popular parts of the pigs, such as the carree, and the Chinese get those parts that don't fit us like ears, armpits or feet. - Sounds good, doesn't it? Mrs. Sustainability Minister Köstinger celebrated the agreement, and with it the five largest slaughterhouses, which are now allowed to transport Austrian pigmeat 16 000 kilometres around the globe. But what does this bring to our small farmers and the local organic farming that you want to promote – these are your own words –? - Nothing, it hurts them! The feet and heads enjoy great demand in China. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, that was the argument why we're celebrating this deal. [[Abg. Black and Abg. Straster: What's the connection?]] - Yeah, it's coming. The problem is: China has not yet signed the agreement. We must not export armaments and feet at all, not only because China does not yet want them, because they are looking at their own market and protecting them. After a recent request from Mr Kolba to the Ministry of Health, we have been allowed to know that there is no certification for this, and that will not happen soon. So we can't export that yet. So what's going to happen? – We will export the good pig meat – the cart that we also want here, and not just the muzzles and feet. This increases the demand for production in its own country, and more pigs are raised. But later the demand breaks down, the price falls, and the market here is oversaturated with pork. In addition, more pigs also produce more feed imports such as soybean from South America, whose production is proven responsible for the destruction of rainforest and climate change. Again, the question arises: What does it bring to our little organic farmers, our small farmers? We should not promote the expansion of meat production, but rather the cultivation of vegetables and fruit. Every year we have to pay EUR 1.1 billion for the import of vegetables and fruit so that we can ensure the supply of our population. Of the approximately 2 billion euros that flow to agriculture every year, a significant proportion should therefore be used to increase food sovereignty in this area, i.e. vegetables and fruit, and not for the expansion of slaughterhouses. We want to promote small farmers, and you want to do so. I therefore put to the vote the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[15:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34589	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I can continue in the speaker list: The next speaker was Mr Linder. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34614	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Such budget Discussions sometimes make it necessary to cross a bit of a bit that the opposition – no na – looks for every hair in the soup and we call everything positive by the government. But if I experience that the last and the last Transport Minister is standing out of the SPÖ and criticizing the bad conditions of the roads and public transport, I really must say, ladies and gentlemen, that: It's probably a bit of a bit overlaid and naughty. In politics, you can take over calmly, but if you look out and say: Four months ago we were still in charge, but everything is bad, in Austria everything is wrong!, then, I think, the citizen is very well aware of who it means honestly and who is actually just looking for a political whirlwind. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] On the subject of agriculture: I am glad that the funds for agriculture, for farmers, have remained the same and that the savings that had to be made have happened in the system. Payments to farmers remain the same, and at least for this period the continuation of the family farms is partially secured. But I am particularly pleased that the school fruit and school milk programmes are being continued, because we know today how rarely healthy jauses are given to the children in the school. I am glad that there are still many teachers who are doing the work to implement this project in schools and, of course, that the money for it is provided by the government. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As far as agriculture is concerned, I think it is important to continue the programme in this way. The major challenges will in all cases come to us with the Brexit and the next period of the common agricultural policy 2021 to 2027. I think if we manage to do the homework now, we have a good start for the next CAP period. A very important area is rural development. I think it is very important that the funds have also been secured at the same level: EUR 563 million for 2018 and 2019 for the Elder programme. I have said this several times: My great wish is that we all work to ensure that these funds really come where we need them. It happens time and again that agencies develop projects and then in the communities try to raise the need. I think we are all called upon to ensure that the funds come to projects that are really needed by the population and that money is not just going to be used by the agencies. Another very important point – it has already been cut by my colleague Rauch – is the means for the action programme on flood-proof Austria. There is more money for this: In 2017, it was 181 million euros, 2018 184 million euros and 2019 193 million euros. I think everyone who has once experienced a storm in his area, in his community, knows how important it is that these resources are available. But it is also important – and I really want to say this to all those who have to speak in the countries – that you ensure funding for the communities, because in most cases the communities fail in these programmes, in the cultivation measures because they cannot raise their own resources – and then, when the weather is there, it is too late. That is why I think the Federal Government has done its job, it makes the money available for it, we only have to see that the communities are also able to bear co-financing. Finally, I can say that this government also has a word in this area. It looks at the safety and ensures that the plantation measures take place. In this area too, the population has the sense of security.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34680	At the gallery I can welcome the students of the HTL Rennweg quite cordially. [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mr. National Council Vice President. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34710	Mr President. Mrs. Head of Division, welcome! [[In the direction of Federal Minister Köstinger:]] To my colleague Hauser: I would really like to thank you for saying to God and to the world, all of Austria, what social-democratic policy stands for, namely, aid for small and medium-sized enterprises and for their support, and that social democracy cannot be bought like large companies that do not pay taxes because it is moving profits abroad. – Thank you for that, everyone now knows. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Herbert: 30,000 businesses! That's what she stands for!]] I would like to repeat briefly to colleagues Kühberger and Haider. Haider meant that Austria has chosen red and chosen Turquoise Blue, Kühberger has meant that the Austrians have chosen the change. I think of “elected” in connection with this choice: It's like calling. You can choose, you lay on and then choose correctly. You pay the bill only after that. To return to UG 42: In the field of leisure and tourism, and these two areas belong together, there are many construction sites that are open and for which it is worth simply investing long-term and sustainable money. I therefore say department head because Mr Hauser meant that ministers are not ministers, but only the officers of the Chancellor in question. In my view, the amount of discretionary expenditure you have estimated in the budget is a little too small, and above all they are not really transparent. Much more, however, is involved in the budgeting of funds, whether their commitment is also appropriate to respond to changes in tourism, to meet what the leisure and tourism sector is really breaking down. This includes, among other things, climate change, which means that, with the exception of the last winter, the snowfalls are increasingly going up and the slopes can no longer be snowed as well or at all because of the rise in temperature. This also includes the fact that classical winter tourism and summer tourism are no longer secured and new, innovative projects need to be promoted to bring all the ideas that are safe to implementation, efficiently, targeted and sustainable. The question that arises is: Where's the budget for that? – It is important here to become much more concrete, and best to be as concrete and as targeted as the government in the present double budget 2018/2019 saves people and not in the system. Chancellor Kurz does not speak for long, he simply shortens, doing it does Federal Minister Löger. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It reduces the budget and measures that people should normally provide for protection in the tourism sector or help through thirst if, due to their age, health status or because they are simply too expensive, they get into unemployment. The only thing that increases the government is working time: from ten to twelve hours – cost-free, that is understood. On the budget, however, I wonder where the resources for the huge challenges are to manage the ten thousand jobs – 36 000 to 2023 according to Master Plan – in the gastronomy and accommodation companies, in the domestic leisure and tourism sectors, for which training and conversion must be carried out. They know that there is an urgent need for action together with policy to develop strategies and solutions. Mrs Minister, where is the budget for making leisure and tourism jobs so attractive that people in our country who are looking for work in this area can really fill this labour market gap? I hope that the respective tourism budgets will also be hidden in the respective cross-sectional ministries. I hope they're wearing it, because in the tourism ministry, it's far too little to say: just nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34762	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to address the Minister as he deserves, not as Head of Division. [[Abg. Unterrainer: That was your colleague Hauser!]] Mr Lattenbichler is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34794	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I should like to comment briefly on Mr Bißmann's comments because she felt obliged to blame the Minister for the use of the House. In this context, I should also like to make the gentle point that it is also Usance that, as a Member of Parliament, we speak only once at a point in the agenda, even if, as in your case, we have several speakers. This has been done by other Members of smaller groups at the moment and in previous periods, and this should apply in your case. [[Mr Bißmann and Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] [[Abg. Loacker: This is in the Rules of Procedure!]] What surprises me again and again and again and also upsets me – but it is not yours – is that criticism of everything and everyone is expressed. They have given an example in the field of renewable energies, where undisputed figures are on the table, which can now be explained in some way. As a person who is positive about one thing, I see in the numbers you mentioned something very different from you. They mentioned that we currently have a share of around 33 percent in renewable energy in Austria, electricity is already generated from renewable energy to more than 70 percent, more precisely 72 percent. But these figures also show that we are top riders in Europe with these very good values. We are even world leaders in some areas and we do not need to hide here. On the contrary: On this number material we can build n. However, we do not want to rest, but with an ambitious climate and energy strategy, we have presented a comprehensive strategy, which is then to be decided in June and is to be implemented by law in the coming months and years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We want to take the people along with this climate and energy strategy. There are also no cuts in the resources, as you say in many places. In spite of the budgetary situation and the constraints on expenditure to the same extent as in the past, we also want to take more money into our hands so that we can achieve the ambitious objectives. [[Call at the SPÖ: You can't see that in the budget!]] However, we do not want to achieve this with new taxes, but we want to relieve people, we want to take people along, we want to work less generally with bans, but only on time where it is simply necessary. We do not define ourselves in this government as a prohibition society. We have seen in the case of prohibition parties like the Greens where this leads: You've rightly been chosen out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the debate itself, I can turn towards SPÖ: I have not made a strict list now, Mr Loacker, but in the last few days one has already felt that the new Spindoctor of SPÖ has indicated that you have to cut the floor six times in each speech, five times save the floor. It can then be a little exaggerated, as Mr Holzleitner said this morning, that the government is pursuing a goal, namely the removal of climate change. – This government is very powerful about things, it is willing to do a lot of good and positive for this country and for the population, but then its power is overestimated: The removal of climate change will not be achieved by the government, especially in the budget. But we want to fight this climate change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holzleitner.]] With this climate and energy strategy, we have found a suitable means. We will also implement them, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34864	The next item is the speech by Mr Laimer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34886	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Although in the sense of the message control of the Federal Government, the word “ambitioned” appears daily in the political language, its climate and energy strategy, which according to the Council of Ministers decision should represent itself in the budget, is exactly the opposite, ladies and gentlemen. A lighthouse, as stated in your propaganda, actually serves for orientation, for position determination, but especially on climate and energy issues, the Austrians were disappointed. I would like to take out two so-called lighthouses: Several rail projects were removed from the framework programme in my home country of Lower Austria. More than a quarter of a billion euros will not be invested in environmentally friendly rail in Lower Austria alone. For this there is a fat basket money for the head of government. This does not mean strengthening, but unfortunately a weakening of the seemingly bound traffic, and it is not a lighthouse, but an ecological return of the tandem Köstinger-Hofer. - I can't spare you this picture, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Schimanek: We are not talking about the infrastructure now!]] As regards the thermal renovation rate of buildings, an increase of 1 per cent to 2 per cent per annum is discussed, with originally 3 per cent planned annually. Now, even the budget is being reduced in this important measure. It is precisely there that a power act is needed to at least initiate the energy transition – keyword housing development, construction regulations with the involvement of the federal states. In your #mission 2030, you want to save 3 million tons of greenhouse gases by thermal building renovation in this area, which is 37 percent of current emissions. 7 million tonnes will save traffic, which is 21 percent of the current value. The large sectors of the economy, agriculture, waste management and fluorinated greenhouse gases have no requirements. Why not, Mrs. Minister? Rather, the impression is that the Chamber of Economics and Agriculture and Industrial Union have drawn up this budget strategy or, at least in corrective reading, have re-emerged their own climate contribution. Fossil energy sources should, if possible, be replaced. If possible! So you look forward to decarbonization. A socio-ecological tax reform is not even envisaged. Contributions by agriculture and industry in terms of CO2 reduction in terms of climate objectives? – Nothing, nothing, never! Ladies and gentlemen, one thing we must all really bear in mind in our responsibilities: If we do not create the energy transition, then at the end of the day, not environmental laws, but rather physical laws will become effective, with consequences that are not yet possible for all of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34922	Mrs Holzleitner spoke of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34947	I would like to briefly correct Mr Lettenbichler's statement. I did not say that the government has removed climate change, but instead – as the budget service has also analysed – it has removed from the EG 2 action target 34 “Climate change and resource shortage”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34971	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Schmiedlechner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e34995	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues! Appreciate Seers! I'm a little surprised. Now, at once, the SPÖ insists that there are farmers. [[Abg. Ecker: Now it’s going to be embarrassing!]] Now, at once, the SPÖ has an interest in agriculture and considers it important. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Now at once you remember!]] Since when? – In the last ten years, you have put the chancellor. In the last ten years, you have not heard anything about this area. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The double budget 2018/2019 is around 2.2 billion euros. Most of this budget is determined by the common agricultural policy, the CAP. As in recent years, EU funds have been an essential cornerstone in the agricultural sector of the resort budget. The 2018/2019 agricultural budget contains 1.2 billion euros in EU funds. As a government, we ensure better protection of farm and forestry family farms. [[Abg. Ecker: You're not the government!]] We ensure a competitive and comprehensive Austrian agriculture and forestry. We ensure that our high environmental and animal protection standards are maintained. Austria is stuck on the path of environmentally sound agriculture. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Our programme stands for the conservation and improvement of ecosystems linked to agriculture and forestry. We are in favour of promoting energy efficiency and supporting the agricultural, food and forestry sectors in the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resistant economy. We are in favour of promoting social inclusion in society, combating poverty and economic development in rural areas. Unlike you, we implement, unlike you, we act in a sustainable way. You've failed for decades, and that's why you've been chosen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35090	Mrs Feichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35111	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear listeners! I just want to say: We are also committed to farmers, especially those who do not hear from you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] In recent months, Mrs Minister, you have not tirelessly applied for your rural master plan, especially in the media. They have also not become tired of addressing specifically the area of childcare and care in rural areas, which the Master Plan also includes. Mrs Minister, I can tell you that we would like to support you very much, and that is also important. As mayor, I experience every day how important this is. Especially in these areas and in these areas, it is very important in the country to act very quickly and as quickly as possible in order to make rural areas even more attractive to young people and families who need a perspective. This applies particularly to young women, to whom we must at last give freedom and the opportunity to get family and professional development under one hat. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Therefore, my expectation was, Mrs Minister, that the whole advertising will now be followed by a concrete action, because the Master Plan should be in full implementation for about 100 days. With your budget you can't implement a master plan. There is no means of childcare in the budget, there is no budget and no means of care. I know you're saying that's not your skills, that other ministers are in charge. But it's your plan! This means at least that you are responsible for coordination or for the discussions and that you should provide the means for rural care and childcare. Did that happen? If I look at the budget of the ministers Bogner-Straust and Hartinger-Klein, I feel that they have never heard of anything from a master plan. There is no further expansion of childcare facilities in 2019, nor, according to the national leaders, are enough funds available for the care – the key to care. Unfortunately, her master plan, Mrs. Minister, is not a master plan, but a highly polished wish list, which comes across deaf ears in your own government. In the end, these errors may be banished again to the people of the country, especially the women for whom the situation will not be improved again.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35178	Mr Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35199	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Colleague, you are a mystery here in the rural master plan something he is not, namely an all-embracing, rehabilitating concept. That's not it, it's a master plan for rural areas. You already have to be fair if you make the most serious accusations here and then don't agree with the things that implement the Master Plan. For example, the reduction of the turnover tax on tourism is part of this master plan to help tourism in rural areas; They voted against. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The introduction of the family bonus is a support for families also in rural areas; They were not necessarily for that either. So I mean, Please stay fair and just with these things! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] By the way, my information – because you complained that the Master Plan was not dealt with here in Parliament – is that SPÖ has not seen any reason to discuss the Master Plan here. So please be fair in the argument! Don't talk like that a year ago, and today it's not okay. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Above all, the implementation of the Master Plan is the crucial point when discussing individual measures aimed at strengthening rural areas. That's how we see it. In this sense, the budget debate on agriculture is really good news that rural development programmes are being financed. I know how it was in the past. The agricultural and environmental sectors have always been confronted with cuts. What we have succeeded is also the Federal Minister – you, dear Elli! – that these programmes will be financed in spite of sparing pressure. I congratulate you on this, because this is a great achievement that you have succeeded. Good luck! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is just fair, for what are these programmes, for example? – Farmers enter into commitments in the environmental programme, including the organic farmers, and expect the state to pay these benefits. If in the course of the period suddenly intervenes and is shortened, then that is not fair. So it's only fair when the state says: Yes, we finance the programmes, the environmental programme, the mining programme, the rural leader programme, which also benefits other sectors. This is an important step. In that respect, Mrs Double Bauer, you have disagreed. They say agriculture has a status quo, it doesn't change much. At the same time, however, they have said that this is one of the most innovative areas. The fact is: Without these programmes, for example the organic programme, we would not have such a strong organic farming in Austria. Agricultural exports are even on the rise! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One of the most innovative sectors we have. We are being praised throughout Europe for our path in the agricultural sector, which is ecologically sustainable, yes, organic. But the Conventions are also sustainable. You can't also say here that we have a lot-increasing funding. – We have already abolished that. What we are doing in the agricultural field and now we are continuing is: If a farmer, a farmer, does more for the environment, they get more, an ecological reward. If a farmer doesn't do anything for the environment, he won't get anything. The fact that a biobuilder gets more support is clear, but that should be the motivation. You can also check these programs. We can stand up to the evidence in Europe and at the same time serve markets. However, the fact that gross value added may fall if I have a year of frost when the wine-growers cannot deliver or when the milk price decreases is clear. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double farmer.]] That is why we have developed insurance systems which, for example, are intended to protect farmers against climate developments. In this sense, there is much to be done, and it is an important point for these programmes to be financed. In conclusion: It is good that the Minister is now also devoted to the issue of unfair trade practices. The European Union is also doing this. It is necessary to strengthen the role of farmers, including small farmers, and also of commercial food producers in the market position in relation to the large trade chains, because they are threatening to get under the wheels. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Raiffeisen!]] – Andi, ideological reflex! It is about the large supermarkets that have such a market position that there are unfair trading practices. The small industrial carnivores, bakers, as well as the agricultural sector remain on the route. This is to be strengthened. We support this, because this will also ensure income in the agricultural sector, which also benefits small farmers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35279	Mr Kollross is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35300	Mr President. Dear members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Listeners in the gallery, in front of the television sets and also in front of the computer screens! Unfortunately, Mr Rauch, I have to deal with you in an additional sentence: I don't think it's very fair that you use numbers and you don't have comparison numbers, but I think it also speaks for yourself that you did that. If you had done so, that you would have taken comparisons of the previous years, then you would have had to admit – just as Mrs Minister has admitted in her speech below – that the environmental budget in her department does not rise but decreases. That is exactly what our side also criticizes. Unfortunately, the environmental budget goes down with the Minister of the Environment while at the same time the cabinet costs are rising, especially – and this has been a favorite issue of the government since yesterday, I have heard – as far as the temporary workers are concerned. In 2017, the Ministry of the Environment has cost 800 000 euros to temporary workers; in the current budget year and the following there are 2 million euros for temporary workers. Unfortunately, the entire budget in the environmental field is one that is declining. I do not think that we can shape climate change in such a way that Austria can make a positive contribution. Not to figure out what to do with the 51 million euros that Mr Kurz Kurz has on playing money, in terms of environmental and climate protection, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I have not been able to ask a question that I am particularly interested in yesterday. Mrs Umweltminister, you have made a statement, perhaps you can answer it: There are supplements in the budget for almost all chapters, only for environmental protection is comically missing the supplement. No one has mentioned that yet, but I would be interested: Why is there no such supplement in the field of environmental protection? Why is that missing? I hear that she's supposed to be finished, but she's being deliberately held back because the numbers are supposed to be not as great as you would have liked. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Listen, hear!]] Since you are still speaking, it would be very interesting to find out where this supplement is on the subject of environmental protection. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... something hidden?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I think, if you look at this environmental budget, you have to say, unfortunately: There is a lack of commitment, there is a lack of seriousness, there is no will to really lead the fight against climate change. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35362	Mrs Gerstner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35383	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary – he's gone. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests at the gallery! Values Watcher in front of the screens! A direction-setting budget that has not yet been available in this form – we are discussing it today and tomorrow, we have discussed it yesterday. It is innovative, economical, highly efficient – and yes, that is no contradiction if you invest wisely and budget properly. On the one hand, we want to relieve taxpayers, on the other hand we maintain a careful handling of the use of the tax money. That's how this double budget represents itself. Let me lose a few words about the environment and energy! In a novel of the Ecostrom Act, EUR 45 million was also invested in the wind energy sector to reduce the long queues in windwheel projects, which is quite positive. The biogas industry also receives 11 million euros, and the small hydropower plants receive 1 million euros in additional funding. We must not neglect other projects in the field of renewable energy, such as the small hydroelectric power plants which I have already mentioned. In the rarest cases, there are environmental impact assessments which make it somewhat difficult for small hydropower plants, especially since there are a lot of plants that belong only to revitalized plants. In addition, small hydropower plants have a high priority for security of supply through decentralised energy supply. In addition, the use of small hydropower plants guarantees value added effects for the Austrian economy by creating jobs in construction, expansion and revitalisation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you. Renewable energies continue to be the focus. According to statistics from the oil group BP, the demand for coal is falling sharply. Half of the growth in world energy consumption was or was the result of renewable energy. In order to work truly environmentally friendly and to counter climate change, the G-20 countries that invest in the EUR 600 billion annually in renewable energy would have to invest. We in Austria want to show that we have a pioneering role. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Significant promotions in all areas to increase efficiency and to be able to process projects more quickly create more jobs, protect the environment and give Austria a positive light for our next generation. [[Call the SPÖ: Don't read!]] - Thank you, it'll be better. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a consistently positive side-by-side appearance if one takes a proper look at environmental policy. This is a proper environmental policy for which we make ourselves strong in order to protect our generation meaningfully and to leave our children and children a beautiful and clean Austria. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] So, now it's all over reading, thanks. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me lose a few words about the police horses, because that's actually my topic. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:For business!]] - That's right. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I'll explain it to you. Maybe I can talk for a moment, then we can continue to discuss. [[Abg. Drozda: We don't want to interrupt you on the topic!]] - That's very nice of you. The subject of police horses concerns the environment, agriculture and animal welfare. If yesterday was claimed – unfortunately the Lord is no longer there – that twelve police horses cost as much as 30 prosecutors, then the wage dumping is pure. I don't think that what a horse costs in the attitude is as expensive as three or four prosecutors. They won't earn so much. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] There, Mr President, I think apples have been confused with pears.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35486	I beg you to let the speaker speak! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35508	I think you have no idea. If you let me talk – I asked you to let me speak – then you can express your opinion on this. Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that the total cost of the police horses, including the police officers, has been aggregated and compared to the salary of the 30 prosecutors. 30 prosecutors, however, need office space, need writing staff, need a lot of others. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You can't follow, can you? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's terrible. [[Abg. Drozda: Do you think the riding police horses didn't know that?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] What, what, what? It won't be better. I hope that the calls will be withdrawn from my speaking time. Thank you. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] I would just like to tell you that, in many major cities in Europe, there are police officers who are in a position to be fully satisfied with both the people there and the executive officers. It is very, very positive for security in the individual cities. If occasionally the word "animal torture" falls in connection with police horses, then I must say that these people who are talking about animal torture have no idea what animal torture is – because animal torture is for me shafts, mass animal husbandry and animal transport. In that sense, I believe that the police are a very positive story. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35576	Mrs Ecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35598	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mr Gerstner, you have to explain to me sometime today with the horses and the office premises. [[Abg. Gerstner: Please?]] You have to explain to me again today with the horses and the office premises! [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] But now to organic farming: In Austria, organic farming has a very, very high priority. You too, Mrs. Minister, emphasize in several broadcasts and newspaper reports how important the organic farming is to you – but unfortunately only if you need a presentation project, because in the budget 2018 and 2019, 112 million euros are estimated for the bio-agricultural sector. This is the same amount that we already had in 2017. The SPÖ was involved in this, because this high amount tasted Mr Comrades Not at all at the time. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the bio landscape is constantly growing. This is also mentioned in your Green Report, which the Ministry has made a significant contribution to making. In addition, it also needs higher budget resources, and unfortunately there is nothing of this. Every fifth hectare in Austria is already managed organically, which is about 5 percent of the total area. The solution to more money in this area would have been a very, very simple one: There should have been only a different weighting within the rural development programme. It would not even have been necessary to have a budget item of its own. It was also forgotten that by your - Mrs. Minister, would you listen to me? [[in the direction of Federal Minister Köstinger, who with Abg. It shall be maintained by the competent authorities of the Member State in which it is situated.]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Forget – and I think this is very bad – also the changeover promotion promised by your predecessor, Federal Minister Rupprechter. If a farm is run conventionally and wants to change to organic, there is no promotion of change, no own budget items is foreseen for this. A yes to organic looks different for me. There too, the government opposes the interests of the people of our country and clearly operates client policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35647	Mr Hörl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35669	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! As a farmer – however, sheep farmers, not horse farmers, unfortunately – I would like to take part in this chapter of agriculture, nature and tourism in the latter area. But I would also like to point out that this speech from the opposition, everything here is so bad, cannot entirely vote. One third of the Austrian area – 27 percent – is protected. We are at Natura 2000 with 15 percent, I believe, also leading in Europe. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If I look at the great heart of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs regarding the support of the Alpine associations of 3.6 million euros, without the need for projects to be presented and sought – what normal businesses already do – I think that the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs is working very hard in the field. Tourism and above all the cable cars with winter tourism are the cornerstones of our prosperity in the alpine valleys. This prosperity is generated at 1 to 3 percent of the land area. If you put this in relation to the protection surfaces, I think that is well justified. Politics therefore does well to support the existence of many thousand families in our alpine valleys. That is why it was a nice sign that we took a first step with the reduction of the turnover tax on the nights. I say this self-confidently also in your direction, if you always criticize that you are doing Hoteliers gifts: [[towards SPÖ]] Please note that, in many areas, the Austrian hotel industry is facing problems that, through the competition from Airbnb, Booking.com and these platforms today, we are in a situation where many of these companies are unable to manage the depreciation that takes too long. I think that was a good way, and Austria is a tourist country. My native Tyrol, with almost 25 or 27 percent of GDP there, is based on a tourist foundation. There are, of course, still some projects for which we have fought together in the government negotiations. We need a depreciation period that is adapted to the lifetime of hotel rooms, because over 40 years, that's not possible. Of course, we also need to see that we regulate more flexible working hours, especially in terms of rest periods and such things, in tourism, but there we are also on a good path. I think the government's balance sheet can be seen. Let us look at the exemption regulation: 18 000 plants are exempted, more than 1 000 bureaucratic cases are avoided. In many other areas too, we are on a good path, for example, with regard to the reduction of farm representatives; there are almost 70 in some businesses, and if we can reduce them all to the number that is absolutely necessary in Europe, then the government is also doing great things. I think that in Tyrol, especially in the tourist centres, we do a lot about climate change, many of our villages are hot with biomass. In the Zillertal we have a very large project with hydrogen, we want to change our railways to hydrogen. If we look at the sustainability targets in the field of energy generation, Austria is 33.6 percent sustainable energy, I believe, also at the top of Europe. We in Tyrol have 41 percent of the electricity from hydropower, and the target in Tyrol is 100 percent by 2050. I think we're on a proper path, and that means a triple effect: good for our location, better for our environment and best for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35729	Mrs. Köstinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35750	Mr President. Appreciate High House! At the beginning, I really have to apologize that I have failed to respect the Uzances before; that was no intention, I simply overlooked the fact that Mrs Bißmann had been spoken twice. I would therefore like to apologize for not being able to do so again. With the budget of the UG 43, i.e. the areas of environment, energy and climate, we as the Federal Government want to make a big step towards energy independence and, of course, make a decisive contribution towards climate protection. This requires the sustainable conversion of our energy system. Environmental and energy policy in particular faces very, very big challenges. Climate change and its consequences clearly show: Climate protection has the highest priority. Therefore, the Federal Government has already presented the draft climate and energy strategy after 100 days and the #mission 2030 is the strategic way to achieve our climate and energy goals. Many of our actions in the Federal Ministry of Sustainability and Tourism underline and support the achievement of these objectives. A total of 627 million euros are planned for the environment, climate and energy in 2018 and 623 million euros in 2019. The most important instrument for promoting environmental and climate protection measures is domestic environmental support. For this, around 205 million euros are available in the years 2018 and 2019. The Climate and Energy Fund aims to promote sustainable energy supply and, above all, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. To this end, we have planned funds of around 37 million euros each for both years. For the maintenance and, above all, improvement of sustainable and competitive supply of energy and raw materials, around 1.7 million euros are planned for 2018 and 1.6 million euros for 2019 within the breakdown. Sustainable nature and environmental protection plays a central role, especially in the conservation of nature parks. For this purpose: Area is estimated at around 51 million euros for 2018 and 2019. Anti-atomic policy is essential for Austria and, as well as the government programme, we have decided to continue to pursue this path. Therefore, around 18 million euros are budgeted for the area of radiation protection. A crucial budget area deals with waste and settlement water management and chemistry. This area is estimated at around 415 million euros in 2018, with 413 million euros in 2019. This important part of the budget has three major environmental objectives: the use of resources and secondary raw materials, the sustainable supply of drinking water and the environmental disposal of waste water. In summary, I would like to say that there are no real reductions in environmental and climate protection support. This means that the same resources are available for this important area as in 2017. Successful programmes such as domestic environmental promotion, climate and energy funds and also thermal rehabilitation will continue. I would like to point out that, especially in 2017, the budget has not been fully implemented. This has to do with the fact that funding guidelines are, in part, far too complicated, that there are double promotions and that very many users and potential users do not even work to make applications. That is what we are trying to do together and, above all, to achieve a significant simplification. The measures of the Climate and Energy Strategy are supported by the entire resources of the UG 43 and the Federal Government is committed to the government programme to consistently promote climate change and to promote the development of renewable energies and the related infrastructure development. In addition, it is very important for us to increase energy efficiency, to ensure security of energy supply and to take particular account of the competitiveness of Austrian companies. The #mission 2030 starts with the presentation of the draft climate and energy strategy, and I can invite everyone to participate in the consultation process under mission2030.bmnt.gv.at. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35824	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35845	Let me address three points in the field of food and the environment. The first point is security. Since I am responsible for food safety in the SPÖ, I have, of course, looked at what is involved in the Agency for Health and Food Safety, which is, as it were, responsible for ensuring that healthy food is consumed. They will continue to spend over the next few years, and this continuation will result in the Ages having less than EUR 7.5 million available in 2022 de facto. The second thing you do is write into the budget accompanying law that the pharmacies tax will be extended to 2022; that is 3.5 million euros a year that the ages will receive, and that is what you have limited in the amendment to the Budgetary Accompanying Act by 2019. If you have looked at the numbers of the participation controlling, you know that this is not eligible for the Ages. In my view, therefore, safe food will not be guaranteed so easily in the future. The second issue is transparency. The participation report also includes agricultural holdings; the Austrian Federal Forests will deliver significantly more to the state over the next two years, namely around 22.8 million euros. These 22.8 million will also be shown here in this detailed budget for all those who have not yet read it. What is not found in this detailed budget is the EUR 800 000, which the Agronomice Bundesperifungswirtschaften GmbH delivers to your ministry on yield under the same heading. There was no answer in the Committee's deliberations last week. In the documents we find no list of where these resources can be found. Now one can argue about the 7.4 million euros of fruit pleasure payments that the Austrian Federal Forests have to deliver, which are listed in the participation report in 2018, but not in 2019; However, in UG 45, they are very likely to plan with these revenues. This is just a mistake you made in the report, where you have committed yourself, but at least this mistake is found. You can't find anything else – so much about transparency in the budget process. We know that we are talking here about high-aggregated numbers, that is, at the end of the day we are also dependent on the question: What do you intend to do with the money we make available? We can only measure this through impact objectives, measures and key figures. I can only say that the field of electromobility is a growing one, there are new models on a daily basis, more and more on the market, and this leads to the fact that the characteristic value for 2018, namely 48 000 vehicles, has already been reached. Now, of course, it is assumed that a new government, which is ambitious in the climate field, has done something. Key figures are: for the year 2019 plus 7 000 vehicles with an alternative drive – this year we have already reached 11 000 – and for 2020 plus 3 000 vehicles. The concept of safe, transparent and ambitious can now be seen by everyone, which explains why we are critical of your government and your policy and, above all, this budget presented.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35882	Mr Hofinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35903	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is undisputed, we live in a very beautiful country with a very high quality of life. It is also undisputed that agriculture is responsible for the beautiful landscape, managed and maintained. Not only do we see this, but many other people see it this way, and so many tourists come to us. This is very good and therefore I congratulate our Federal Minister for bringing tourism to agriculture to use synergies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is also undisputed that our farmers produce very high quality, durable food for us, with very high animal and plant protection standards. Austria has a small-structured agriculture, but the competition is still quite large, we have to measure ourselves with the world. That is a great achievement, I congratulate our farmers and thank them very much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In order for our small-structured agriculture to be preserved, it needs our support in the form of these compensation payments, which is very important. I also congratulate the Federal Minister on this budget, which ensures that direct payments and payments from the second pillar will continue to be secured in the future. With EUR 2.8 billion, 1.6 of which for agriculture, including EU funds, we ensure that our agriculture can be professional, innovative and competitive in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ultimate goal, I believe, is that we all agree, that is what we heard from previous speakers, that we are receiving our small-structured agriculture, our family farms. I think this is the top and most important goal, but if you look a little bit into the future, some darker clouds come to us; I just call some such as climate change, hail, drought, rain and so on. Mrs Bißmann, however, also makes us romanticize our agriculture, or the new CAP, the new financial period of the EU. This is precisely where the Brexit plays a major role, 21 billion euros in food exports to England are lost, and the contribution of England to the EU budget is also being lost. This, of course, also has an impact on agriculture. That is why it is all the more necessary to take the very important point of view that we have also adopted, which our Federal Minister has repeatedly stated: We are for degressive, covered direct payments, we are in favour of maintaining our agricultural environment programme. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister, I would also like to thank you for once again providing EUR 100 million for agricultural schooling in the budget. are. It is very, very important and important educational institutions in rural regions that do excellent work. I am also pleased that you have made a point landing with the climate and energy strategy you have presented. I am sure that our agriculture will continue to make a major contribution, especially in the field of renewable energy in the future. Let me make a brief comment on my previous speakers from the SPÖ: I am glad to hear Cornelia Ecker's speech, which the organic farming has addressed. I have just said that there have been eight speakers in the field of the environment and agriculture, but it was the only one who spoke about agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e35981	The next speaker is Mr. National Councilman Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36003	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! In the Federal Preview 2018 and 2019, an impact target in the field of agriculture, nature and tourism is: ‘Future Country – sustainable development of a vital rural area and ensuring efficient, resource-saving, comprehensive agricultural production and domestic and foreign markets’. - Yes, so far, so good. Ladies and gentlemen, we explicitly take out the “vital rural area” and the “sustainable development”: Yes, there were already ambitious projects, including the former Ministry of Life. I only remember the projects Enjoying Region or Network Culinary, both at first glance very good projects, which also had their fixed place in the past budgets of the ÖVP ministers. Only: If you look closely, you don't know exactly where the money came from. Dear Mrs. Federal Minister, I invite you to try this yourself and open the homepage of the network Culinary! You will find the only information that 10.5 million euros are planned for 14 projects in the period 2016 to 2022 – and that was the case with the information. Of course, it would be interesting to see how far the projects have gone, how much capital is still available, in which regions projects have been implemented or will still be implemented in the future. Ms. Minister, exciting on the homepage is also the tab “Events”. When you open it, a very, very interesting information comes: ‘There are no dates in this category.’ So I have to say, Mrs Minister, with transparency, you are a little on the foot of war. I would really ask for more transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is a real interest in strengthening rural, structurally weak, but very, very innovative regions, I believe that this is only done with transparent projects and in coordination with other ministries, such as BMVIT, and in consultation and coordination with the countries. Mrs Minister, I am from the Waldviertel region and this region is becoming more and more established to the health region and health tourism is also increasing. There is a finished project that would ideally fit in with it, from the point of view of tourism, namely the expansion of the Franz-Josefs railway, so that tourists can reach the health facilities in the forest district ecologically and with a modern, forward-looking public connection. Mrs Minister, talk to your colleagues in the mobility department, talk to your party colleagues in Lower Austria! Especially the Land Niederösterreich has been presenting this project for over a year, announces it, there are permanent press photos. I come to the end and have to say: Press photos and announcements are simply too little! In summary, I have to say: Just as you deceive people with the announcement of so-called lighthouse projects in the region, so deceive You also save people with this budget, because you don't save with this budget in the system, but you save people! However, they allow for an additional basket fee for Mr Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36048	Mr Rädler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36069	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The statements made by my previous speaker are very strange: he is sitting in a group which, I believe, has been putting the Minister of Transport for years. I don't know, you didn't get through in your own party with your traffic improvement concerns in the forest district? It is already a very far-reaching issue to make reservations against the Ministers of the European Union. We are discussing today a budget with a long-term strategy; Funding commitments are included in this budget. This budget is a historical one. It has not yet been mentioned by anyone that for decades it will be the first environmental budget in this House without the support of a green group. This is also true, and no one has actually made a speech by the Greens. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the FPÖ.]] This can be measured by how meaningful the work of the Greens has actually been in the last decades and why they have been chosen. The voter is never wrong, Mr Kern has to take note of that. The greens have already taken note of it; a few have gathered in the fungus still in the rest of the fungus – okay. But maybe a word about it because I couldn't put it in the morning: It has been criticized by SPÖ representatives that ministers from the FPÖ advertise and spend money on the presentation of their work in the Ministry and in the Parliament. – Did you notice who the ad chancellor was in this Republic? [[Abg. Singer: The Faymann!]] – Not Faymann, although Faymann has already brought together a real record result. But now it has become known that 3.7 million euros from the Chancellor's office have gone to the Boulevard on behalf of the elected Chancellor's core for ads. There I took a page – which he could have been free of charge, of course in a negative form – from today’s “Kronen Zeitung”, namely the page with the newsletters in which the population really made its own thoughts. [[showing the addressd newspaper page]] So, dear friends of the SPÖ, when a colleague has said - - – Yes, I come to the subject! [[Call the SPÖ: This is not about the subject!]] The Mrs Collaborative from Upper Austria is not there now, which the Federal Minister has held that the master plan for rural areas, this and that, up to the family sector, has not actually been implemented. Where's the woman's health minister out of service? - There she is. I ask you: Where have the rural areas remained in your activity? What was the situation with regard to the occupation of doctors who need to be remedied? This is a problem that has been totally neglected by you. In this master plan are the primary supply units inside. This has to be done by the countries now because you have failed in health policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36144	Members of Parliament are hereby informed of the matter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36166	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say thank you very much to you, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have also carried out the principle in your department to save on the system and not on the people, say to farmers, and thus to ensure co-financing. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] For climate, environment and energy, 627 million euros in 2018 and 623 million euros in 2019 are budgeted. I think this is very important, because the environment is our livelihood and a clean and economical handling of it is essential. This is a challenge, but it can also be a great opportunity. You have already taken into account the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the concrete objectives of the EU by 2030 in the first 100 days in which you presented your comprehensive draft on the Climate and Energy Strategy. Austria has taken a major step forward towards energy independence, through targeted climate protection and the expansion of renewable energy. Climate protection means innovation for our businesses, generates economic growth and creates jobs. Mrs Bißmann said that the government would not have planned effective measures. The opposite is the case. I mention only the 100 000 roof programme, which should ensure that one day on each roof a photovoltaic system with storage function can be found, or also the decision of a new energy law to come into being by 2020 and replace the existing eco-electric power law. Energy is important, we need it. The best environmental measure is if we do not consume energy at all, but save as much as possible and use it efficiently. Finally, I would like to thank all those who participate here, because climate change concerns us all. We've already taken some steps, we're going the next step, we're all helping together!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36214	National councillor Gödl is reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36235	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home! If you were at a budget debate the first time, you would be a little surprised, because you would have to put everything you, united opposition, here from colleague Strolz to the SPÖ to the Pilz list, into a budget, then we would have had the biggest debt mountain of all time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This government is primarily in favour of putting the house and the finances of the Republic in order. A roof has to be re-covered when the sun shines outside – and now the sun shines outside. We have a good economy and we have a very courageous government. [[Call the SPÖ: Where is the debt brake?]] If one does not cover the roof in time, there will also be damage to the substance, and we have taken action to make order in all areas. If I deal specifically with the budget in the field of the environment: Of course, it could be more and more, we could be more and more disbursing, but at the end of the day it's not just about finances, it's also about efficiency and effectiveness; Effectiveness in the sense of doing the right things and making those things you do right, so making them efficient. Our Federal Minister is in favour of this, and the climate and energy strategy of this Federal Government is also in favour: doing things right and addressing the right things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could list a lot of examples, but I only have a very short speaking time. Waste management would be such a topic where Austria is on the go, or the settlement water management, many areas of the climate and energy strategy. My appeal to you, dear opposition, dear Mr Klubobmann Strolz, dear SPÖ and dear list Pilz, would be: Come on. You get out of the opposition basement and climb up the roof with us to cover it as long as the sun shines! Now it seems, and we are chosen to take things in hand for the future generations. Get in there!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36279	Member of Parliament has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36300	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners at the gallery! Dear Austrians in front of the TV screens! Austria is always an invitation, an invitation of nature, an invitation of art and culture, but above all an invitation to make holidays in our country. To make this an unforgettable experience for our guests, we need our gastronomy, our entrepreneurs, for who, if not our small and medium-sized businesses, is behind our country? But what does it look like in a family business like that? How are we doing in the family businesses? – No one asks how many hours a day we are in operation as a self-employed person. No one asks how we're doing, what's going on with the operation if we get sick for the longer term. And no one asks how, after a 16-hour day, to be an independent self-employed person, we still have to deal with all the bureaucracy and if we don't need a secretary in addition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Now it is so far, now we have a government programme and finally a budget that also relieves family businesses and our small and medium-sized enterprises. You can really say a big thank you: Thanks to Mr. Finanzminister Hartwig Löger with his team, who has put a double budget on his feet within 100 days – you have to imagine that! – but also thanks to our Federal Minister, Elli Köstinger, who really negotiated the best for the budget for us, for agriculture and forestry, for tourism, for the environment and energy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36342	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36363	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! A proverb says: Trust is the most important currency. That is exactly what the electorate has given us, and we know how to deal with this trust. When it comes to the Federal Budget these days, I appeal to all of you: Trust You have this budget, because this budget is the start to a sustainable and secure future for all generations, but above all a budget of opportunities and opportunities for us young! In the field of agriculture, too, the budget is well-equipped, and I know that our Mrs Bundesministers will be responsible for this budget. It is very important to stress that the funds for the first and second pillar, direct payments and rural development, are secured. Thanks be to all farmers, because farmers are not meant to enjoy the idyllics of the country and to look for animals that are supposedly runaway with speaking pigs. To be a farmer and farmer means to be able to use the conditions of the region, with land and land, because agriculture is an economy on the land. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The activity is not limited to working at the farm, but in addition, many farmers volunteer in many associations and in the interests of agriculture. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is it all about? – It is about maintaining and strengthening family businesses in our country. It's about the best quality of our food. What can you imagine buying better than buying from the neighboring farmer? It is about security of supply in our country, it is about sustainable food for all Austrians, and it is about our beautiful landscape, which you can enjoy all, ladies and gentlemen, on the way home. This well-kept cultural landscape would not exist without our farmers. As Mr Strasser has said today, there are over 530 000 jobs in the field of in-house and downstream jobs. The agricultural budget is therefore also an economic budget. To conclude: It's about supporting our young farmers. It has been mentioned: 12 percent of our managers are below 35, and this is due to this programme. Therefore, this programme must and will continue accordingly in the future. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for this promising budget! It will certainly guarantee a positive future for our agriculture.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36417	Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36439	Mr President. Minister! Although it is a little surprising for many in this area, this government is doing just and gripping what it has been elected for, it is consistently implementing the government programme, and this includes a proper budget. We are saving 2.5 billion euros in the system, as has already been said, in the administration. However, saving is not a self-esteem for us; we save to relieve, and this is what we do for workers and especially for tourism, namely with the reduction of VAT. Thank you, Mrs Minister, I think this is a necessary measure, even though many say that it has not deserved this industry because it is so good for her anyway and the number of nights is so great. That's right, the number of nights is good. In my home country, in Salzburg, there is an increase of about 7 percent in winter tourism; that is a great number, but it is not the essential. The essential thing in tourism is the yield and value-added, we need to look at it and look at nothing else. The equity ratio is too low; we know that the equity ratio in tourism is lower than in other sectors. Why is that so? – Because, of course, everything is invested. We need to be aware of this: Everything the companies take, they immediately invest in the domestic economy, and that's great. That is why the reduction in VAT is all the more necessary in order to have more money for investment again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing I would like to mention is that it has already been mentioned: Our hotel companies have an eerie competition through the booking platforms. People's holiday behaviour is becoming more and more volatile, and we need to be aware: There is no guarantee that the people in Austria are on vacation, they can also travel anywhere else, for example to the neighbouring countries. But they come to Austria because our houses are just tipped together, and for that we have to thank our businesses once too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, one sentence on the shortage of skilled workers: This is a big problem, which we are aware of. I do not know any business in Salzburg in this area, which would not be looking for skilled workers. That is why I am grateful that there is a master plan for tourism, which also takes into account the player’s network. I believe that if we all help together and especially attract jobs in tourism, then domestic people will be happy to work in tourism again. That would be a desirable goal to pursue together. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36488	Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36509	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of this Federal Government to further develop the tourist location of Austria is clearly defined and clearly identified in the double budget. An orientation towards quality tourism will continue to be promoted, synergies with agriculture and culinary activities will be strengthened and the entire product of Austrian tourism will be developed strategicly. In addition, through targeted activities of Austria, advertising is aimed at inter- national level to further increase the share of the negations of foreign guests. Propos Advertising: As my colleague Mr Rädler has already mentioned, advertising is something that SPÖ, above all Mr Kern, can do particularly well, after all, has spent some 3.7 million euros on self-advertising last year. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, with this money we could have financed a free ski stay, a ski week, all over Austria; keep this in mind! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Austria is a tourism country, 90 000 domestic businesses employ more than 770 000 employees. The government programme has already set out the development of a new overall tourism strategy with annual monitoring. The “Plan T – Master Plan for Tourism” is currently developing this overall strategy by Federal Minister Elisabeth Köstingeren. With the double budget for the years 2018 and 2019, we can support the companies as much as possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36555	At the end of the debate on these sub-divisions, Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36576	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Less debt, less taxes, more for people, is the government's creed for future policy, and that is good because that means sustainability. 2.2 billion euros are available for agriculture, nature and tourism, and this is a good result. Mr Fichtinger, Mrs Köstinger, has negotiated well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also say that of these 2.2 billion euros in about 1.3 billion euros come from the European Union, which is also an important issue. It is possible with this budget that all the essential things can be financed: direct payments, compensation for the mining industry, investment promotion. On this point, however, I would like to point out that the resolution is somewhat comprehensive. I praise the initiative of the State Councillor Sepp Schwaiger in the state of Salzburg, who has developed and enabled a simplified procedure for investment up to 70 000 euros. This model should be an example for Europe, it benefits the farmers, and therefore the farmers on Sunday will naturally choose the ÖVP, Landesrat Sepp Schwaiger and Wilfried Haslauer as the head of state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The environmental programme is ultimately at the heart of the agricultural policy and can again be well financed. The farmers offer security of supply with best food – this is not a matter of course, just think of times of crisis! – and second, a habitat with quality of life. This is in the interests of the entire population and secures jobs in the countryside. I should therefore like to conclude by thanking you, Mrs Köstinger, for the solid agricultural budget. I also thank the consumers as the most important partners of farmers, and finally I also thank the farmers and farmers for their ability and reliability – and seek approval of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36630	There are no more words available to me. The consultations on the topics of agriculture, nature and tourism, the environment, energy and climate have ended. [[16:39:37]] UG 10: Women and equality
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36652	We are now entering into the negotiation of division 10: women and equality. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36676	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by saying thank you for discussing the chapter on women and equality. That was not intended, it was originally hidden in the chapter Family and Youth. I like the fact that this is the case now, thank you very much for that. I only regret that the idea of extra discussion of the topic of women's budget did not come from you yourself, Mrs Minister, but that this idea had to come from the opposition – unfortunately. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Unfortunately, I must also note that we are discussing a budget which is less than 500 000 euros compared to the last, which is very, very unfortunate. It is therefore also self-evident why, in all the written answers to the questions we have put, there is always no budget available, no budget available, no budget planned, no budget. It is equally unfortunate, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister, that you had to change because you have only half a million euros at your disposal, that you have turned 200 000 euros from the funding into expenses, so that you can meet the legal obligations that are there: The anti-violence facilities and intervention agencies installed by the law, which are half financed by the Ministry of the Interior, half by the Ministry of Women, need an increase in funds. On the other hand, this EUR 200 000 lacks over a hundred women's advisory facilities in that country. As a target for 2020, indicate to reduce surface coverage in this area from 85 to 80 percent in Austria. That means that women who need help and advice can no longer be sure that they also get them, and there are certainly jobs at risk. In this context, I should like to mention only three examples from Upper Austria. The three well-functioning facilities of Maiz, Fiftitu% and Arge SIE are already so severely affected by these cuts that they are threatened by locking up. Through the re-translations, this fate will certainly also meet with other women's institutions, and this saddens me, which I think is very sad that this is so. The women's service agencies, whose funding for Pamela Rendi-Wagner was guaranteed for a period of five years, do not know, even from a written reply, whether they can really expect planning security for more than five years and expect the money provided for them, because the cryptic written answer does not permit interpretation. Also for as good tools as the pay calculator, the help app for women who are in need, but also the platform My technique, which enables girls to know well what ways they can take professionally, is not guaranteed the funding. [[Abg. Singer: The girls want to be hairdressers, cosmetic women!]] You do not do anything for the year of commemoration, you do not do anything about 100 years of women's right to vote, but, and this is my sad conclusion, you have agreed today, because the principle of unanimity prevails in the Council of Ministers, that hardly a woman in this country will benefit from the increase in the minimum pension, because child rearing times are not counted because times of sickness and unemployment are not counted and because hardly a woman will be able to show 40 years of work to get these 1,200 euros. This is really a witness of poverty, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36719	Mrs Jeitler-Cincelli is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36740	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you said it was a pity and a pity. I find this very funny now, because it has not been that long – perhaps a time period that you can't remember any more – because you could have done this before, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek speaks to Abg. Kuntzl.]] - She doesn't hear me now, she has to talk. It seems that the subject was not so important to them. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Women's and equal treatment policies are an area in Austria to which unfortunately many make a big bow. [[Call the SPÖ: But you too!]] Perhaps this is the case, too, because this clearly positive image is there, because in the past one has always transported it with such a certain basic attitude that I do not really think is right. I am pleased that we now have a positive approach to the budget proposal. Women's and equal treatment policies are primarily one: an area which cannot be demarcated. We are in a total cross-sectional matter, so we also need to see where that is actually the case everywhere, what we are talking about. It's clear to me: This is about local policy and economic policy and not always about talking about a small circle of victims. Our common goal is the empowerment that we really strengthen women and say to them: Hey, let's do it together, we'll support you no matter what area you're in! I think it is very good that this government is now able to give women stability, security and trust. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Wrong speech, Mrs. Colleague!]] The planned anti-violence centres that will come now, emergency shelters, transitional apartments, all these are things that are coming up, and that is beautiful. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not budgeted!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not budgeted! 0 cents!]] I would like to address a very different aspect – a personal matter that we should all have in common – namely the decision of a woman to have a child. We have very, very good, valid numbers from family research at the moment. When they have completed their training and become taxpayers, women, we see this very clearly from the figures, often the feeling that they do not want a descent again. They feel they have to reduce their standard of living again. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Wittmann: That's already very up-to-date!]] It's just a subject. That is exactly why we have now adopted a measure, namely the family bonus Plus, which I clearly do not regard as a purely family measure, but for me it is a very clear women's promotion measure. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: That's right! Women's policy is family policy!]] - That's a bit of a joke now, huh?- Oh, my God! The colleague has just said that family policy is women's policy – in my opinion, women's policy is local policy, we are talking about economic policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Incorrect speech!]] [[Abg. Singer: Good speech! Really a good speech!]] And our location only has a chance if we all work together to improve the standards that fit the framework conditions so that our young women are ready to have children again. So our common task can only be to empower women to act on their own. I suggest that we do this together and give the whole – all the political groups together – a little better image here in the house. That would be my concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36904	Member Claudia Gamon has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e36928	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My pulse has just risen a little, because I have the feeling that we have been in different budget committees, Mrs Jeitler! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, exactly!]] It's no surprise, it's about money, and we all agree that women's policy is cross-sectional. Every minister, every minister should feel responsible for it, that is completely out of question! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] To whom sexual justice is an honest concern, which can and should not rely on that can be done in a place that has 10 million euros available. You can't move mountains with this, but you can do something. The Federal Chancellor promised here in February in front of the Federal Council to pursue an active women's policy. “Austria had to offer more safety for women, but in the previous year around 50,000 women had become victims of violent offences.” – This can be read in a broadcast of Parliament correspondence. So much pathos and so little honesty! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] The department, now Section III in the Federal Chancellery, is precisely responsible for this. In other words, one is particularly active in coordination, but there one is responsible for the protection of violence and prevention, and for the next two years no additional resources have been made available. ==References== On February 2022, it was announced that one would like to create 100 additional places of care for victims of violence; there is nothing budgeted, so we can assume that this will be implemented at the end of this self-employed period. What happens until then to the victims of violence who may not at the moment find a shelter – as Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has said, there are institutions that probably have to close because the money is not enough – what happens until 2022? We don't care, do we? Nor else is there too much clear in this place. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has already said that we have used the possibilities of the parliamentary process and have tabled written budget requests. For example, we asked what printing works were planned in 2018. – The answer: “For the detailed budget 10.02.01, planning 2018 is not yet completed.” We have asked how it looks about updating the data for the pay calculator, whether funds are estimated, because according to the budget, this measure is very important for achieving economic equal treatment for women and men in the labour market. – The answer: “The planning for 2019 is not yet complete.” – So you can’t say it. Colleagues Lindner from SPÖ asked how much is available for the operation of the Fem:Help app. – The answer: “The planning for 2018 and 2019 is not yet complete.” Now you can imagine what most other answers have looked like. I have assumed that we are now holding a budget debate and that we can also talk about the budget, but we obviously have to do with perhaps fictitious measures that are used to achieve the objectives, because in fact we do not know whether what is being adopted in order to achieve the objectives is budgeted at all, and if so, to what extent. [[Abg. Singer: Sure! Enough!]] When should we discuss this if not in the budget debate?- Oh, my God! So we're a little hard to judge whether that's gonna bring something or not. Even without the legal responsibility in the major areas, it can be assumed that this place can also take part in the coordination, that one goes out proactively with plans and also has a vision of how to achieve this objective of gender equality in Austria. Of course, most pains are the lack of resources on the subject of violence, which is really a problem. The Minister said – as stated in the “standard” on 8.2.2018 – that: “I’m very concerned about how many women become victims of violence each year. It is therefore a particular concern to me to expand the care offer.” It really is us too; we hope that this will not only be taken up for the political PR, but that it is also a real concern. Therefore, as opposition groups, we jointly make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I believe that this is important and should not only be there to do political PR, but it should really be an honest concern for everyone. We are not talking about huge amounts, for example in the transport sector and so on, but we are talking about a budget of 10 million euros. If that's not worth it, then we really have a problem. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[16:52]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37088	The application is properly submitted and supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Carmen Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37116	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I just read: “I am pleased that the women’s budget will continue to be available at the same level as before”. – This was a statement by the former Minister of Women Heinisch-Hosek in an issue in 2014. I have read: “It is good, and it has already been said by some speakers that the women’s budget has remained the same over the past few years with just over €10 million. ” And then we're going to go on: ‘So: In my opinion, the women's budget – which was also said by previous speakers – is nothing more negative to say [...]”. This was said in the budget debate on 25.11.2015 by former Minister Heinisch-Hosek. – How quickly the times change, Mrs. Colleague! Are you taking yourself seriously? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A few years ago, you defended us against a budget of 10 million euros and today you criticize it. I do not want to say, too, that I would have liked to continue to have the upper authority for this year, but, my colleague, you were the Minister of Women from 2008 to 2016 – until 2017 then Mrs. Rendi-Wagner – and you have failed to provide us with a women's budget all these years so that we can discuss it and have it on a sustainable basis. Please do not come here now and do not say that the budget is too low, because you have for years failed to negotiate an appropriate budget! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have no idea!]] I can still remember very well that my party was still in opposition at the time, I have repeatedly submitted to you several requests to ensure the financing of women's homes and women's advisory services, and you have rejected them. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Don't confuse everything!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Gamon also said: Women's policy is a cross-cutting matter, and I am very, very happy that we have been able to include many measures for women in different areas in the government programme. I am very happy because I was able to work with myself decisively. Where are improvements? – There is it once through the family bonus. I believe that this measure will also benefit a large number of women who are employed. The minimum wage also benefits many women, and there are 40 000 Austrians who will benefit from the minimum pension. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I am not right in this regard, because we will also be preparing an improvement for people with 360 contribution months, and this is also done on the initiative of the FPÖ. Yesterday, the Minister of Sport said that we will improve the promotion of women's sport. – That is also important to me. In the area of women's health, we have included many aspects, including the support of pregnant women. I have only recently heard that about 12,000 pregnant people in Austria suffer from pregnancy diabetes. We will take this into account in the future in the mother-child pass. This will also be part of the precautionary examination and will also be an improvement for women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the area of integration, it is already very important for me to have more control in the Islamic childcare facilities, because we have just seen how important it is for the girls to be strengthened. We have also ensured with the Minister of the Interior that co-financing is provided for girls, women's counsellors and women's homes at the same level as that provided by the Ministry of Women. I think it is very important that this co-financing still exists. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! One point that has also been decided today is the strengthening of asylum law. This is very, very important to me; it is a question of connectivity. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What does this have to do with the women's budget?]] I find it more than worrying that refugees who commit a crime here in Austria may be guilty of women and children, then continue to live among us. I believe that those who suffer from women and children in Austria have every right to live here.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37197	Mrs Stephanie Cox is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37218	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Sabine was lucky. The academic and mother of two children found the strength to separate from her violent husband and find security and rest in one of the women's homes. There she was helped not only to get her life back in control, but also to get back on her feet. Today she leads a nonviolent life, has no more health problems, and above all no more nightmares, and her children are developing beautifully. It is not natural, however, that women's homes cannot accommodate all the women concerned. According to Istanbul Convention, more than 80 places are missing in Austria. Each month – from Statistics 2017 – on average two women of men are murdered. This can and must be prevented, especially in a country like Austria. Sabine is one of many women in Austria affected by violence; to be concrete: Every fifth woman in Austria is subject to physical and/or sexual and above all psychological violence, according to studies. Domestic violence is not a women's theme that can simply be put to the table as a family drama, but it is a security issue that we are dealing with together and with. As my previous speakers have mentioned: According to the government's budget planning, €500 000 will be available for the promotion of associations and advisory bodies. On the one hand it must not be, on the other hand, it is also to the highest extent to question what has been mentioned in the media, namely that chancellors and vice chancellors approve of play money in millions and the 100 emergency beds announced by the Minister are not to be found in the budget. Mrs. Minister, in the committee, you said you had to talk to the respective institutions to know where the shoe is pressing. Mrs Minister, there are studies on this, and my previous speakers have already put it to the fore: We have to act now and here. We can't buy more victims of death, violent victims, and we can't put them on the long bench. The facts are on the table, especially through the Grevio estimated reports from 2016. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Last week there was also a press conference of the Alliance non-violent living, which is a merger of 30 different victim protection institutions, and these say that the budget of the women's minister is a budget of 10 million euros. It is not enough to maintain the current level of victim care – not even to maintain it! Allianz non-violent lives expect the government to invest about 1.14 euros per citizen in the violent agents – per citizen! Above all, however, one also has to look at the consequences. We are talking here of 3.7 billion euros of consequential damage. You can calculate it yourself, we're talking here about the economics, the psychological damage; there are so many things that fall in there. We can't buy this. And we in Austria are talking about the fact that we cannot guarantee real protection for those affected. Austria has the best anti-violence law in the world. But what is it about? – It is not sufficiently financed. Austria ratified the Istanbul Convention in 2013 but did not comply with the agreements. Mrs. Minister, get the Ministry of the Interior into the boat! We have heard, partly this is already the case, but we also need the Ministry of Social Affairs, we need the Ministry of Education. It has to be pulled together here at a strand. It must not only be discussed, but it is about financing. It is not only a matter of talking about it, but also of campaigning for victims' protection and culprits' work. Ladies and gentlemen! Gender-based violence is not a women's theme, which, as mentioned above, can be brought to the table as a family drama. We are talking here about a security issue that we need to deal with together.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37273	The Federal Minister has now made a statement. Please, Mrs Bogner-Strauß.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37294	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the televisions! The Federal Government has set itself the goal of consolidating the budget, achieving a zero deficit and spending less than we do. We want to do this for the first time in six decades next year. I think it is a matter of securing citizens for the future by ensuring a social state in the future. Of course, the Federal Chancellery must also make a contribution to this, and I think it is very encouraging that I can tell you that the women's budget has not been attacked; no, the women's budget is secured. I think that's an important sign. Once, in 2017, we had a budget overrun – this is not being continued – but I would like to stress that we have had the same female budget since 2009 and that my predecessors have also failed to raise the female budget. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I did educational projects!]] [[Abg. Höbart: Yes, educational projects!]] [[Abg. Singer: The schoolbooks match that no one can read anymore!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, you might!]] Women's policy is cross-cutting policy – we have heard that, my predecessors have already said. Women's policy takes place in all departments, both in the Social Ministry – mentioned by my previous speaker – and in the Ministry of Education, women's policy takes place. We're doing gender budgeting in the Ministries. In all ministries, we ensure that equality takes place, that gender justice takes place. I can just mention the Federal Ministry of the Interior here. The women's budget is 10.17 million euros, most of which go to violence centres and intervention agencies. These are promoted together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior, and a value adjustment is being carried out time and again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This is also an intervention agency against forced marriage. These posts are supported and the budget is increased annually. I would also like to refer briefly to the places of assistance for victims of violence, because that was addressed by my previous speakers. We will create 100 places of care for victims of violence by 2022, but – and this is a claim I make to myself as a scientist – I would first like to find out where exactly these places are needed. I've had a lot of conversations in women's homes in the last few weeks, I've been in the violence center, I've been to women's counseling stations. First of all, I really want to know where we need these places. This is different from federal to federal, some need the places in transitional apartments, some need them in acute accommodation. [[Abg. Wittmann: No plan! What do you get for a...?]] The Istanbul Convention has also been discussed. Austria was one of the first countries to sign, ratify and implement the Istanbul Convention. There is now a Grevio report and, of course, a number of recommendations are set out in this Grevio report, although Austria is very good about the protection of victims and the protection of violence. Nevertheless, I am concerned that we will implement these recommendations in the next few years. We will make this both cross-border and federal and national. The second major fraction of the budget for women and equality goes to women's and women's advisory services. These advice centres are extremely important because they help women and girls get good advice in all living situations wherever they are needed. This, I think, is also very important to ensure social security, especially in old age. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think these advisory bodies are extremely effective. It is very important that the women's budget is safeguarded so that women and girls can continue to be well advised. Of course, I am concerned that we are preparing as soon as possible the applications for support we are currently with us, because of course these women's and girls' offices want to know as soon as possible how it goes on and that they can continue to advise girls and women. Around 45 percent of the women's budget goes to violence, to violence centres, to intervention agencies and to the intervention agency against trafficking in women. As has already been said, the costs will be covered together with the Federal Ministry of the Interior. These posts are used annually by 18 250 women. About 54 percent are for consultancy and care services for girls and women in Austria. [[Abg. Wittmann: Who wrote the speech?]] This is about 130 women's and girls' advisory facilities, five women's advisory bodies in sexual violence, an Austrian hotline available 24 hours a day, six emergency apartments, as mentioned earlier, and housing communities. However, it is also about very important discussions in women's homes. This offer is available annually by about 90 000 women and girls. The remaining women's budget can be used to raise awareness. I believe that this too is a very important issue, because we need to raise awareness of sensitive women's issues. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Who wrote this speech? Please don't pay him anything!]] I should like to mention once again that the women's budget has been unchanged since 2009. We were able to secure this women's budget, and we will secure a common future for Austria's women and invest in a common future for Austria's women.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37427	Reported as follows: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37452	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators and spectators here in the High House and at home in front of the televisions! Before I come to the budget for the women's resort, I would like to thank our Federal Minister and the Ministry for the work done. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Every fifth woman in Austria and every third woman in Europe is once faced with violence, so the work of the Ministry of Women is very, very important. Thousands of women and girls in Austria are offered protection and assistance every day, namely in 130 women's and girls' advisory facilities, in six emergency homes, as well as in violence centres, intervention agencies and advisory facilities. Hundreds of women are doing very important work there for women and girls who are not doing so well, so I would like to thank them very much at this point for their help. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] 10,15 million euros for 2018 and the same amount for 2019 must be allocated well and properly. For example, 47 percent of these are involved in the financing of intervention agencies and violent centres in the case of violence in the family and in the financing of the intervention agency against trafficking in women. Together with the Ministry of the Interior, we ensure the financing. Important is: We can offer 100 percent care rate. That is, any woman who is affected by violence can take advantage of help and it will help her too. This will be ensured with this budget and will therefore continue to be possible. By the year 2022, our Federal Minister – she has already said – will create 100 shelters for women affected by violence. Now it is important to find out in which area these places are missing. In addition, the creation of women's and girls' specific advice and care facilities will be invested, as women and girls in difficult situations will be confident that they will find help in their safe environment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37503	Next speaker: Mr Mario Lindner. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37527	Highly esteemed Madam President! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A German Chancellor once said in a famous quote that I avert: Government lack of reason should never be underestimated. [[Call the FPÖ:Schmidt!]] – Helmut Schmidt in the original quote: [[Abg. Hafenecker: We know!]] “The stupidity of governments should never be underestimated.” [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: The SPÖ, or...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The policy of ÖVP and FPÖ is already very significant, which is now being seen in this debate. If you look at the list of speakers: Only women talk about this topic – and a man. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, women's and equality policies are not just women's matters, women's and equality policies are women's and men's matters! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] [[Abg. Dei-mek:... because you're just everywhere against it!]] To the women's budget: Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in the women's budget, your policies are striking, including your priorities. [[The speaker holds a panel on which three differently high columns are shown under the heading “Black Blue Priorities”, which are described as “play money”, “€51 million for short”; “play money”, “€15 million for strate”; “€10 million for women and equality”.]] The ÖVP chief approves of 51 million euros, the FPÖ chief approves 15 million euros, and both of them agree to 166 additional posts, and the women's and equality budget is ten million euros. [[Abg. Singer: Haven't you heard it yet?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You forgot the core!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You forgot the core! ...50 million!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is, two men have 66 million euros of play money, and there are 10 million euros for women and equality. [[Abg. Deimek: I thought that was what the social partners were doing! Are they too stupid or too lazy?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] This is a scandal, and it is especially not worthy of women in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] On the women's advisory services: In advance, I can thank all the employees of the over 400 family advisory services. Thank you for your impressive and important work! [[Abg. Deimek: What about the social partners?]] ÖVP and FPÖ reduce over 1 million euros at the Family Advisory Offices in Austria. According to the umbrella association Family advice in Austria, 18 000 couples or families are affected by this reduction, and 26 000 consultation hours have to be saved. This is not worthy of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] On the budget policy of ÖVP and FPÖ, I can only say: Preaching water and drinking champagne is your motto. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haubner: That's core!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: You should be ashamed to say this!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gay and proud of it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: Everyone's business!]] You, Mr. Hauser, are embarrassing, homophobic, despicable and a disgrace for this house!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37805	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking, I can well understand that in budget debates emotions also rise. [[Abg. Hauser: I just quoted!]] [[Abg. Lausch: But he's a madman!]] I would just really ask for it, because we always refer to the people who watch us that our choice of words does not violate the dignity of the house. This is not the first time today, but it has been so many times, and yet we have always tried on the part of the Bureau to make a certain amount of liveliness possible in the discussion. However, I would ask you to be aware of your responsibility as far as the image we give to the public is concerned. [[Abg. Hauser: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Actual correction!]] – No, Mrs Susanne Prince is now speaking. But if you want, you'll be happy to speak. Please, honourable Member, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e37882	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! What sexual orientation has to do with a budget debate is obscene to me. I think that's actually part of private life and not of the public. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Talk to your colleagues! It's high time!]] I'm not going to out of my orientation. The fact that this government saves women is not true, quite the contrary: We have the largest female budget that has ever existed since that Republic existed. It's a billion hard, and I'll tell you why. [[Abg. Wittmann: There's a basket money, isn't there?]] One must not have such a narrow look as the opposition and only these 10 million euros, which are best managed by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, but one must see the whole thing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] These 10 million euros are only a very small part - - - Would you listen to me, Mr Wittmann, a lady is not interrupted! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Listen, he can't do that!]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Singer: He doesn't have any manners!]] These 10 million euros are only a very small part of the whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] – Now don't stop again, do it at home! [[Abg. Hafenecker: You don't have any manners, Mr. Colleague!]] A good part of the record security billions that we heard yesterday in the debate with Mr Kickl's Minister of the Interior benefit women because this restores internal security. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wittmann]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The increase in the minimum pension benefits tens of thousands of women after decades of work. [[Abg. Wittmann: Wrong speech! ... Women, not for the inside!]] - Unbelievable! [[Call the FPÖ:No behavior, the man!]] The family bonus expresses the appreciation of this government for family and family work. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Women are not only active in the paid sector, but also in the free sector in their selflessness – and this is finally recognized by a government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] The central theme of this government is: Security, both at national level and as a motto of the EU Presidency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Did you catch... at lunch break?]] It is the absolute core issue, but not because it is a right government that plays Law and Order, but because there was August 2015 in which the internal security in Austria was put at risk under the leadership of SPÖ and went into squeaks. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But?- Oh, my God!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: What does this have to do with women now?]] Security is a basic need, a colleague said yesterday. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] Yes, that's true, we've built it up for decades and it's been destroyed in a very short time. The Minister of the Interior is now in the process of reconciling these pieces by measures such as the increase in police, equipment, surveillance measures, and the strengthening of foreign law. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Wittmann and Mr Noll]] All of this serves to increase the safety of women. Every additional police officer on the street, every foreign criminal, every criminal, who is not allowed to enter Austria because of better border surveillance, provides more security and, in particular, saves women suffering experience. [[Abg. Wittmann: This is a embarrassing speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner]] That's real women's policy! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Security policy is a women's policy, which, ladies and gentlemen Cox, is not through more and more consultative bodies and through the subsequent care of victims – one must do the same, but it is even better if one prevents them, and this can only be achieved with an efficient security policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I don't know! I don't know!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: This is rather embarrassing!]] [[Abg. Listen, you're embarrassing!]] If it is applied here that the intensifications in asylum law, in foreign law, are unnecessary, because the pressure of migration has been reduced, I call you only a few numbers: Ethiopia 1970: 28 million inhabitants, now: over 100 million; Nigeria 1970: 56 million inhabitants, now 190 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] [[Abg. Lausch:... in Wiener Neustadt!]] – So if anyone else here in this house mentions that the migration pressure will be reduced, he makes himself completely ridiculous. [[Abg. Wittmann:... hurts!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] Most of the women's policy must fall into the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, thanks to the previous government, rather than that of the Ministry of Women, so that Mr. Kickl is rather a women's minister than an interior minister. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I don't know if he's aware of that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] What SPÖ has offered to women's policy and now offers can be seen on the SPÖ's homepage. [[Abg. Wittmann: This speech really hurts!]] [[Abg. Gudenus: The truth hurts!]] The women’s experts Rendi-Wagner and Heinisch-Hosek announce: “A strong voice for women” and “Women in Austria can rely on us”. – If we do, we are more than left. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] Rendi-Wagner writes: “We want all women in Austria to feel safe.” – A joke about this policy of your party colleagues! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] This is a poverty certificate, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, who is no longer here – apologies – and who has previously certified our women's policy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (with both hands waving) Hello!]] [[Abg. Wittmann:... rather embarrassing!]] Of course, the SPÖ also supports the popular desire for women. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittmann.]] [[Abg. Singer: Finally a reasonable...!]] On the demand for the 30-hour week to be introduced: Why should it be a concern for women to harm the economy? We only need to look at France, because there has been a discussion about 35-hour week, which has also been introduced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann.]] The result was: Staff costs have increased, the competitiveness of enterprises has suffered, the economy is down, unemployment has increased. Do we really want to do this, and that with a 30-hour working week? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The implementation would only confirm the prejudice that women don't understand business, but that only applies to left-wing women. All of this is not a women's policy. As I said, you have to see it much bigger. More security is real women's policy, because a dangerous security situation ends the freedom of women as we have known them. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're so scared!]] [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: Now nobody's claping, now it's over!]] When we're sure, we can reach everything else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38414	Mr Mag. Mr Hauser has now referred to an actual correction. – You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38438	Madam President. High house! Estimated colleague – or, unappreciated colleague – Lindner, I insist: [[Oh-run of the Abg. Noll]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] You told me that I had made homophobic or other statements in my speech. - That's not true. I just note that I quoted the appearance of the Tourism Association Vienna at the ITB in Berlin and found that I missed the fact that the Tourism Association Vienna presented Vienna as Austria's capital of culture at ITB; instead, he presented Vienna as a gay and lesbian capital. [[Abg. Noll: You don't keep anything!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Noll]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Were you there? Were you there?]] I have quoted this from the brochure on tourism advertising. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You weren't there at all!]] I was just quoting, look at the record! [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I recommend that you listen to my speeches in the future and not turn the word around in the mouth!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38533	We are now continuing in the debate. Mrs Sabine Schatz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38561	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I have always believed that Women's Minister Chief was somehow the summit of the Women's Ministry's occupation, so to speak, but if now Kickl is still going to be women's ministers, that is, I think, an additional challenge. [[Abg. Deimek: If you didn't fit at the time, don't fit today...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: It was good! A good Minister of Women...!]] I'll be back to the women's budget: 10,17 million euros are budgeted for the years 2018 and 2019, which is less than was spent in 2017, namely 10,65 million euros; this is now half a million less, with a already minimal budget. 10,17 million euros for half the population, that is 2,28 euros for every woman in Austria. In comparison – and this is really to shame –: Two men, the chancellor and the vice chancellor, pay a basket fee of 66 million euros. It's not just a shame, it's a shame! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder:... 55 million had! 55 million! You weren't there before?]] It is even more embarrassing to look at what these 10 million euros of the women's budget are reserved for. You already said it: This is a fundamental right of women, namely the right to live without violence, and this will also involve a large part of the proposed funds, namely to finance the intervention agencies, the women's advisory bodies and the protection bodies for women affected by violence. I'd just like to take a look at this: Every fifth woman in Austria is once in her life affected by violence, nearly three quarters of the women in Austria are threatened with sexual harassment, and 20 to 25 women die every year – if you want to do so, every second week a woman – by the hand of their partner or relative. That, I believe, is the figures that all of us have in mind, how important it is that we take measures to protect violence. The Istanbul Convention, which we have committed ourselves to, has already been mentioned; we have committed ourselves to taking all measures in our power to prevent violence and to enforce and implement measures of violence. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] They have also mentioned the Grevio expert report, which was prepared in autumn 2017. We see that there is a clear need for action: We need financial resources for the development of protective facilities, we need financial resources for the protection and prevention of violence, and we need funds for awareness-raising and protection measures in the areas of police and justice. You have said that you want to implement these recommendations, but without financial resources, that will not happen. Last week I met together with Mr Schimanek of the FPÖ, colleague Kugler and colleagues Donmez of the ÖVP and the Alliance to live free of violence to discuss the women's budget, and I think we all agreed that we need more resources to be able to implement precisely these measures. But – and I am now finishing – it is not enough for me to say that with regard to the budget, the bag is closed and we can negotiate in two years again that we will make more money available for the women's budget to implement these measures. That's too little for me. Support You are proposing, and tell us today how much money you are willing to spend on the implementation of anti-violence measures from chancellors and vice chancellors! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38642	Next speaker: Mrs Kira Grünberg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38666	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! The priorities in the budget for women and equality are, on the one hand, women's and girls' advice and, on the other hand, violence prevention and violence protection, as we have heard more often today. Studies have shown that women with disabilities are significantly more often affected by violence compared to non-inhibited women. The brutal spectrum ranges from physical, sexualized and psychological violence to structural violence. Their experience in violence is extremely complex, mainly due to dependence by the need for care and support. In addition, people with disabilities are either unable to speak or consciously do not want to, as they fear negative consequences. In discussions with interested parties, I hear again and again that they are being intimidated very quickly, for example in residential facilities, where conflict is fast: You can look for another stay if you don't like it here! How difficult to impossible that is de facto for many reasons, I don't think I have to explain. This is how the spiral of violence continues to turn instead of being interrupted. Violence and disability, which is still a great social taboo, and with it much is turned under the carpet. In this respect, I very much welcome the fact that the women's and girls' advisory services, which hopefully are open to all naturally disabled people, are given a lot of weight and the topics are thus carried in all of our consciousness. We all need to be attentive and remain open, to go through the day, to recognize indirect calls for help. In particular, many Members turn to us in confidence. Once those affected by violence are so ready to overcome themselves and actually do this step of trusting someone, it is the minimum that we listen attentively and do everything in our power to help them. Prevention and improvement of the situation of women with disabilities affected by violence can only succeed if they experience comprehensive equality and do not have a dependency relationship. The aim must be to ensure that people and in particular women with disabilities can live in an inclusive society in which the categories of disability or sex do not play a discriminatory role. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, the representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as of Mr Griss and Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber.]] Let us be aware that violence and discrimination begin where there is a foreign destination. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38714	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38767	Thank you, Mr President. High house! Minister of Finance! I note in these debates, when FPÖ interferes in debates, the only difference to the Innsbruck municipal council is that the FPÖ colleagues there, when they are talking, also fall on the foreign and foreigners topics, but in this House one extends the subject and brings in the homosexuality or simply the different sexual orientation of other people. I think this is very sad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I find it sad because it is important that we in the chapter on women and equality actually talk about visions of this country – no matter who is in the government now – in terms of equality. [[Call at the FPÖ: It doesn't matter!]] Equality between women and men should have the highest priority in a society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! I think it would not be serious to put the social-democratic women's policy in the shade or criticise it here. It is every government on the train when it comes to achieving greater justice in society. I think the fields of activity are getting bigger from year to year, and you or your predecessors know how difficult it was for our social democratic women's work to position women's policy issues in a budgetary manner. I remember the statement of your predecessor Sophie Karmasin, who said: The biggest problem within the EIA was that the word 'child care' was always an incentive theme and that there were always resistances, so it is clear why a progressive women's policy in this country was condemned to failure. [[Call the ÖVP:Ah go!]] Because you said you were consolidating: It is therefore not possible, Mrs Minister, to consolidate the priorities set by the Black and Blue Group when it comes to consolidation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Where priorities are set, they are very clearly illustrated here. [[The speaker holds a board on which three differently high pillars are shown under the heading “Black Blue Priorities”, which are described as “play money”, “€51 million for short”; “play money”, “€15 million for stretch”; “€10 million for women and equality”.]] - That's it. And because you asked, Mrs. Minister: We were pleased that there will be at least 100 new places; You originally said that women's homes, after that you relativized and said that they were emergency shelters – no matter what. The violence of women no longer needs to be raised scientifically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] The Council of Europe is constantly expecting this. You said you wanted to find out where there is still that. As a Tyrolean Member, I can assure you: In Tyrol we need, without the need for a scientific survey, without any consultation with facilities, advice agencies, say and write 43 women's homes; I don't talk about transitional apartments or emergency apartments at all. - It's up to you, and that's where it needs a successful continuation. In this sense I simply hope that In addition to these ideological orientations, they think of women who are concerned with violence, for whom it is unreasonable to be in danger to their bodies and lives. [[Abg. Höbart:... Innsbrucker Bahnhof...!]] That's why I'm calling on you to change your priorities! [[Keeping the table described above in height]] Look at the essentials, and give up on secretaries and the like! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38857	Next speaker: Mrs Sandra Wassermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38881	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear employees of the house! Dear listeners! I am particularly pleased that women and families in this budget are a special focus, because it is an important focus, and I would like to highlight three points today. Domestic violence and abuse of women are unfortunately not decreasing, and the need for anti-violence facilities is still far too high. I have been a member of the Women's House Board of the City of Klagenfurt for ten years and know the numbers, I know the people, but I also know – unfortunately – the terrible fates that the many women bring together with their children to the women's house Klagenfurt. For this very reason, I would like to stress that we are particularly important to women. We invest almost 50 percent of the women's budget in violence prevention and anti-violence centres. As a young Member of Parliament, I am particularly pleased that I am able to decide on this budget, this budget for women. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Women's policy, family policy and security policy are a cross-cutting matter for me. So my second point concerns the subjective sense of security of women; it has fallen. In my home, Klagenfurt am Wörthersee, this is mainly due to the increasing drug problems and the many seizures. Let me briefly mention a quote from Margaret Thatcher, which says: “Patience is a good quality. But not when it comes to the elimination of misunderstandings.” This is precisely what we are talking about in the field of security, because we have unfortunately had to take over these abuses from the previous government, the SPÖ. This is precisely why investment in women's safety and prevention is particularly important to protect our women. At this point I would also like to thank the already implemented measure to strengthen police presence at the Klagenfurt Central Station by Minister of Interior Herbert Kicklver. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] I would now like to end my remarks with an invitation; the women's budget also includes many initiatives for women and girls. The next Thursday, 26th. April, the Girls’ Day takes place, and I would like to invite all girls to the parliament and the federal army so that they can also get to know the technical, innovative and future-oriented professions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38942	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Verena Nussbaum's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e38967	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests here at the gallery and dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Women still earn by 20.1 percent less than their male counterparts in the private sector. The corresponding effect goal, the reduction of the Gender Pay Gaps, however, has simply disappeared in your budget template; it is simply gone. As a women's minister, are you no longer concerned about closing income shears? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We demand income transparency from SPÖ. Women's and men's salaries must finally be disclosed, because only in this way will there be equality in the world of work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We all know that the participation of women in the labour market is increasing, says: Women's employment rate is increasing. This sounds very good, but it is unfortunately not a cause for rejoicing, because it is only because most of the women are forced into part-time employment; and the main reason for this is the lack of childcare facilities. Now, of course, it would be logical to assume that the childcare facilities are massively expanded – but far missing. In fact, only EUR 1 000 is budgeted for the expansion of childcare facilities. You can't even make a broom available to every kindergarten. But the worst thing is, and I have to mention it again, the total budget. The 10 million euros available for women are a bad joke when compared to the Chancellor's and vice chancellor's money of 66 million euros. It is extremely embarrassing how little the women in our country are worth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39015	As regards the division of women and equality, I am no longer in favour of speaking, so the debate on this sub-division has ended. [[17:43:47]] UG 25: Families and youth
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39036	We come to the negotiation of Division 25: Families and Youth. First of all, Mrs Eva Maria Holzleitner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39061	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear Seers! I would like to go to media res and address the government's course on youth policy and express great thanks to the various youth organisations in Austria who do great, mostly voluntary work. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs Krisper, Bißmann and Noll.]] However, this great work is not much appreciated by the government; the budget service also criticises that the rates defined in the Federal Youth Promotion Act have not been valorised since 2001. Nevertheless, the Austrian youth organisations have been able to make an increase in participation in their projects, and this is really due to the tireless commitment of dedicated young people – and hardly to the non-valorized budget. Inflation adjustment in this area of youth promotion would be the minimum measure of this commitment. In order to involve even more young people in Austria, to generate even more members and to guarantee social participation, it would be necessary to increase the budget; but rather basket money for the government as an increase in the budget for the young people in Austria. The decline in disbursements can hardly be in the sense of the objective of impact, as this means that it is in promoting the development of children and young people as independent individuals to use their potential for community and social engagement. I would also like to talk briefly about poverty, because I believe that every person who still has to live in poverty for a country like Austria is a shame. Nevertheless, the Federal Youth Office recently noted in its campaign: Every fifth child in Austria is still affected or threatened by poverty. However, a social security of children is in vain in the budget. Apparently, the government assumes that poverty is something that is going back somehow with the current aid anyway – but that is not true. It needs active support now. Children's poverty must not be a place in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Krisper, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber and Noll.]] Finally, I come to the issue of family advisory services, for which Mr Lindnershon has also shown his commitment, also at home in Styria. The savings in this area are probably quite wrong in the place. In the Styria, there are 3,000 consulting hours that are saved, which go more or less fluttering. In Upper Austria it is even more, more than 4 800 hours – 4 800 hours alone in Upper Austria with high-quality, professional, anonymous, free assistance for families, children and young people in emergencies. In my opinion, progressive, forward-looking family policy looks different. In particular, the objective of action 3 explicitly states: ‘Reduction of family emergency situations and support for families in crisis management, avoiding internal family conflicts’. A measure in this area is the “promoting family advice” but this measure is shortened. Why? This is an incomprehensible cut in this competent, qualitative, serious advice that affects families in emergencies, children and young people in emergencies, and it will simply be missing in Austria. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] [[17:48]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39189	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is Mr Norbert Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39216	Madam President. Minister! High house! I do not want to hide that I am delighted today as a family speaker of my group, but that I am also pleased with the Austrian families that this government is making such a clear commitment to the Austrian families with its policy. Mrs. Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on having understood in the negotiation that this family budget, as it is, should be set up. – Congratulations and thank you, Minister! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The budget for 2018 includes more than 7 billion euros – 7.3 billion euros – in cash benefits for and direct payments to families. These are at least 9.2 percent of total payments, and this amount increases in 2019 to 9.4 percent of total payments. That is, it is a more of 207 million euros available to families. Of these, 90 million euros result from the increase in family support, which we have all agreed together. I believe that this is a very important signal to the Austrian families. The lighthouse project of this government is, of course, the family bonus Plus. Incredible 1.5 billion euros are available for 950 000 families and 1.6 million children. It can be said that even those who do not pay a wage and income tax were still thought to have been provided with 250 euros each. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Zero!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Zero!]] I think we're also showing that we think socially. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, especially of the Social Democracy, that you cannot, of course, leave this project to the point that you have to do everything you need to speak badly, but you will not succeed, even with advertisements, as here in a Vorarlberger newspaper, made by the chairman of the Socialist Trade Union Party, who says: [[Keeping an expression in height]] “In order to use the future child drop-off amount of 1,500 euros per child, a gross earnings of 2,300 euros per month is a prerequisite.” – Your clubman would say that’s a full holder. Of course it is true that with EUR 1 750 you can already pick up this child bonus of EUR 1,500, which can be collected at EUR 2 300 of the family bonus for two children, i.e. EUR 3 000 in tax credit. That's how it has its accuracy. With such means you work, and there you can also add: They don't take it so precisely with the truth. They're always talking about "carb money" for our chancellors and vice-chanckers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] 51 million euros of money is always held here, but you forget to say that your former chancellor, the current clubman, has budgeted 55 million euros, and another 3.5 million euros of advertising costs, which Mr Kern has received, have not yet been given a presidency of the Council at this time. [[Abg. Kuntzl: They still come to the advertising costs!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have to add those, the advertising costs!]] So stop with this one. No one takes away from you from the “carb money”! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, family policy is also important for this government to end debt policy, because a debt backpack of 33 000 euros – from the infant to the big one – is simply too much, and I am glad that this government is beginning to make this backpack easier. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Poverty will rise, you know that!]] I would also like to leave it because the light on the speaker's desk is already flashing, and I would like to end my remarks by giving your colleague, Mrs Duzdar, completely right when she says as yesterday, that this government is saving in the system and not in the hands of people. How true!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39336	Next item is the report by Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39360	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! The family budget contains several things that interfere. If I stick to the budget, I note that there are essential reasons why one cannot agree with such a budget. The first fact is that it was miscalculated in revenue. Even Parliament's budget service has pointed out that in the revenue of the Flaf for 2018 and 2019, it is assumed that some 100 million euros have been budgeted too much. This has a massive impact, because that would mean that 2019 would be a minus in the Flaf instead of a plus in the annual result. 100 million euros are not a cardboard stalk; we have just spoken on the topic of women of 10 million euros, and in this case we simply take 100 million euros, which are not available at all. Then there is the family bonus; Mr Sieber has just managed to present him very large. Of course, I understand it from its perspective, but there are a number of experts who say that the thing costs significantly more – costs in the sense of lower tax revenue – between 1.8 billion and 2 billion euros. This is a difference of about 500 million euros. If I now produce the 100 million euros, which are too much budgeted, and the 500 million euros, which are too little budgeted, the family sector alone is sufficient to ensure that no surplus will take place in 2019 – including the one-time effects. That is enough for me to worry about the family budget, and I am not even talking about the family budget ignoring European case law in a number of areas, namely family bonus – that is not part of the family budget, but is generally part of the income – as well as family aid. That's why I ask the question, and I can't answer it, I don't want to answer it either: Is the budget stupid or evil? – Knowledge can only be understood by those who have thought it out. [[Abg. Noll: Both! Both!]] – “Boths” might be a third way of reply, and there would be a survey to do so. I'll stay with the family bonus. One important thing for me is the family bonus: Of course, we distinguish that it is a discharge and not a social policy measure. Nor is criticism aimed at it, and it is a clear commitment for us NEOS that we do not want to give people what family image they choose together. This decision belongs to a living room. We believe that the decision to take the discharge from the state is right. However, we think that technical implementation is wrong. I have already referred to the too high costs that are not calculated; but more importantly, the explanations about how to actually calculate the family bonus appear to me. The family bonus then works when there is an average income in a family and male and female live in a household and have children. As soon as this is not the case – and we are talking about a divorce rate of just over 40 percent – once we have a situation where there is patchwork in which the mother lives in a household and the father lives in another where perhaps new partners or two new families have come from it, there are five pages of explanations who can apply for like the family bonus. Is it the partner of the father, the mother's partner, if something has changed in the tendency? All of this is illustrated in it, but then it should be decided at the end – yes, who really? It is to be paid out automatically in twelve-fifths by the salary. That is, the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur must then in any way examine who has made the particulars with what accuracy at all. This appears to us as a giant monument of administration, and it is not sufficiently answered by this draft. In addition – and this is a very important point – because of the criticism that certain groups benefit less, it has built in more lines that were originally not planned. If you don't pay a tax, you won't be relieved, but you'll get a negative tax. But this is once again linked to educational expenditure for the children. We think it is very right that such expenditure should also be promoted, but as soon as you install this element, it is in spirit no longer tax relief, but a social benefit. However, social benefits fall into coordination in European law – not in harmonisation, but in coordination – and there are a large number of European case law which states that this must not happen in national alone. That's exactly what we're doing. I therefore come to the next point in family policy, family aid, where it is the same. European case law is very clear: A Union citizen, a Union citizen, must not be discriminated against by a social benefit, which would be the case in the case of family support for workers – which is a majority – because they are treated differently in Austria, depending on where their child is resident. Why is that so? – This is for a simple reason: because it is a distribution between those workers who have a child and those who have none. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] That was the idea, and the burden – this is very exciting for me – leads to a risk that is nowhere budgeted. I do not want to let it be used either. There are three conditions that must be met so that, if a national legislation is to the detriment of an individual, it will actually be liable for the damage caused by the Republic. The first point is: The breached legal standard must give the individual a right. In this case, these are the same social and tax advantages due to the workers' property. The second is: The infringement of Community law must be sufficiently qualified – by the way too. The third point is the need for an immediate causal link between the breach of the State obligation and the damage caused to the person concerned. By the way, this is also given, especially for people who have children abroad, because there is higher care costs due to absence. For example, the European Court of Justice has a case-law on the case-law of the Claimants, which is the number C-446/04 – for the Minister of Family. There is sufficient case law, there is sufficient knowledge to make it better – all that you have ignored in your preparations.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39412	Next speaker: Mrs Edith Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39436	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at the visitor gallery! My previous speaker has already mentioned a lot about the budget for families and youth. It comprises 7.3 billion euros for 2018 and 7.2 billion euros for 2019. The largest item in this budget is family aid of 3.5 billion and 3.4 billion euros for 2018/2019. Compared to 2017, this means an increase of around 90 million euros, due to the increase in family support by 1.9 percent. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The childcare allowance comprises 1.3 billion euros, and this transfer is made up of income-dependent childcare allowance and the childcare allowance account, with a longer reference period and the income-dependent childcare allowance being applied for most often. Ladies and gentlemen! For many years we have sought tax relief for families, and with 1. January 2019 is so far, the Family Bonus Plus enters into force. Thanks to him, families with a gross income of at least EUR 1 750 per year receive EUR 1 500 per year, per child up to the age of 18 years. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The SPÖ always thinks that the family bonus only benefits the great earners, the rich. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said here yesterday at the speaker's desk that it was taken by the little ones and given to the big ones. I can only tell you that you are totally wrong, because at EUR 1 750 gross, you are not a great earner, nor are you rich. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't say that at all! You didn't watch!]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, it is true that this is the biggest tax relief for the middle class. It is the largest tax relief for decades. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't say anything about it! You didn't listen!]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you're always so sorry. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Please, what am I doing?]] You should be glad that we finally have a great program for the families, that we make a great family relief. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What am I doing? What did you say?]] They should be happy and grateful to us. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Please don't!]] A total of 950 000 families with 1.6 million children benefit from this measure amounting to 1.5 billion euros per year. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, of course, can benefit from tax relief only those who also pay taxes. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Then this is not a family bonus, but a tax bonus!]] For those who have low income, for single mothers and fathers and single mothers and fathers, a child surplus of 250 euros will be introduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government is investing in our future, it is investing in our families and their children. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Mr Heinisch-Hosek and Mr Stöger.]] In addition, a zero deficit is also raised. This is also necessary, because for 65 years, the state has built up incredible 290 billion euros in government debt, and that means that every baby born in Austria comes into the world with a debt backpack of 33 000 euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] We must finally stop living at the expense of our children and grandchildren, everything else would be unfair to our children and grandchildren, our offspring. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Not least, the indexing of the family aid that flows abroad – a long-term freedom requirement – saves 114 million euros for our families. Finally, it must be concluded that so much money flows abroad in the form of family aid for children who do not live in Austria. [[Congratulations on members of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need our money for our children, because our families and their children have looked through long enough. To the Opposition: If the families and the children are just as valuable to you and are just as at heart as we are, then you have to agree to the budget. [[Abg. Bernhard: More!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39611	Next speaker: Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39632	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! The government programme has set high targets in family policy. In the chapter “Fairness and Justice” beautiful flakes are served on a silver tablet that makes you think that sounds good at first sight. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] However, if we look at the budget for the appropriate government programme, the naked figures will no longer read like the family-friendly fairy tale that is precipitated in the government program. I think that fairness and justice can no longer really be the point of my opinion and my opinion. I am more concerned with terms such as imbalance, inequality, inequality and injustice. According to the government agreement, the government wants to create secure financial conditions for families – beautiful – but is opposed to vehemence in implementing the maintenance guarantee promised in the election campaign of German Chancellors Kurz and Vice-Chanzler Strache to protect single mothers and single-parent fathers from poverty and to protect children of these families from poverty. [[Congratulations with the Pilz list and with SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] The government also wants to reform family policy – also in the government programme – and introduces a family bonus, with little to no avail of 150,000 children. The government wants to ensure that families can best master everyday life and the challenges of life – in turn beautiful – but completely forgets the children threatened by poverty in our country. It has already been said today: Every fifth child in Austria is threatened with poverty and social exclusion, 312,000 children. How can you just wipe it off the table like that? – 312,000 children and young people under 18 years of age! Poverty increases its risk of leaving school early, it increases its risk of getting a lower level of education, thus affecting their chances of life, but also their prospects for development. In addition, poverty leads to poorer nutrition and promotes the likelihood of mental and physical illness. All of this should not be new, Mrs. Minister. These studies are available, but your answers to my questions in the Committee on Budgets, which measures you want to take specifically against child poverty, have left me relatively surprised and speechless. They said they were going to do so much against child poverty, and they have for years sprang up and mentioned existing one-off payments, and, you have said, they are now introducing the family bonus. Mrs Minister, the family bonus as a tax relief does not even fight to a small proportion of poverty, to no millimeters the family bonus fights child poverty. With the family bonus you will receive 4 500 euros per year personally. I can congratulate you on this, I just don't know if that's fair. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Noll: Bravo! Very good!]] I just don't know if it corresponds to your claim of fairness and justice in the government agreement. [[Abg. Rossmann: Can it be that client policy is?]] Perhaps another example: Members of the government parties will also benefit for the most part from the family bonus they will, of course, decide for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen Kühberger of the ÖVP, I can congratulate you on 9 000 euros of family bonus every year. Congratulations! [[Congratulation and bravoring on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Six kids, bravo!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: But there's a kind of envy debate in here!]] I just don't know if it's fair and whether it's fair to a single parent who's gonna get 250 euros a year. I don't know if it's fair to decide on a bonus for myself, which will bring you a personal sum of 750 euros per month, and to feed off single parents with 250 euros or 0 euros. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: That's bad!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:Laughing!]] Mrs Minister, let me say this: A child at risk of poverty won't get anything from this bonus! It is a testimonie of this federal government not to take up such an important issue as combating poverty. Family policy should focus on the well-being of children and not on the incomes of parents. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] We want to focus our policies on children and put those 312,000 children who are threatened with poverty in Austria in our special focus today. It's really social! If this black and blue government fails to lobby for large entrepreneurs and empires and throws around with tax gifts – I'm just saying "coast" reduction – then we'll be the lobby for children. [[Abg. Mölzer: What kind of envy debate do you have? You can go back to SPÖ!]] I therefore make the following request, which I have prepared together with our child rights spokesman Sebastian Born Mena: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support this request. If you really intend to do family policy in such a way that child poverty can be combated. [[Call the FPÖ:No!]] – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Deimek: If you do this now, we don't need to agree anymore!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You're better off at the KPÖ!]] [[18:11]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39898	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Federal Minister Dr.in Bogner-Strauß has now come to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e39922	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Citizens! The Federal Government has become known to the family because the family is the foundation of our society, and family is everywhere where children are. [[Abg. Noll: But she doesn't do anything for it!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] When I look at the budget of the UG 25, I have to say that family is where children are; with this budget we support the children in Austria. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not all!]] As mentioned above, we spend 9.1 billion euros a year on children in Austria. In the UG 25 alone, of which 7 billion are anchored, I would like to repeat: 7 billion euros are 9 percent of the total Federal budget. I think we in Austria are doing a lot for our children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Noll: But they are treated differently!]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Distribution is not right!]] [[Abg. Noll: Why should we pay more for your children than for others?]] While expenditure for our children has increased by 43 percent in recent years, indexation has increased by 32 percent, i.e. we are 10 percent above indexation in our expenditure; we are doing something against child poverty, because child poverty in Austria is getting less. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] For the years 2018 and 2019, we take additional 300 million euros. We have increased family allowances this year, we have extra expenditure on childcare, and we also have extra expenditure because we adapt and increase the benefits we pay for our children in Austria. The Federal Government has focused some projects, including the Family Bonus Plus. We take 1.5 billion euros into our hands for families in Austria, especially in low- and medium-earning families. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The discharge – and I would like to stress this in particular – will take place from the first euro. If you earn 1 750 euros gross, you will receive a 100% tax relief at the end of the year and 1 500 euros more for a child. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: What if I earn only 1 000 euros?]] If you earn 2 350 euros gross, you are already fully taxed by two children and have 3,000 euros more for your children at the end of the year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: It is only for the single earners!]] Of course, we also look at the circumstances of the lives of single parents, and that's why we will spend 250 euros per year and child for single and single earners as well as for Al-Leinerschreiter and Al-Leinververdanner. [[Abg. Rossmann: But only when they work! Shame!]] I may mention here that the family bonus is a tax relief. [[Complaints and bravaders at the ÖVP as well as in the case of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: A woman in part-time does not have to pay taxes!]] People who have children and work have a double burden, and therefore we relieve tax-paying families with the Family Bonus Plus. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: With a zero budget?]] For this purpose, we take 1.5 billion euros into our hands for 950 000 families. I think that is the greatest budgetary discharge that has ever been given to families in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Christ: These are stories!]] How can we still relieve families? – We want to expand childcare and we will continue to do so. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and list fungus.]] We will have negotiations with the countries and then there will be dedicated money to improve childcare, as in recent years. In 2017, 142 million euros were taken into consideration for the extension of childcare, for the free kindergarten year and for language promotion lessons. In the future, we will continue to improve childcare; from 2008 to 2016, 65 000 childcare places were created, 38 000 of which were for under three years old. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Where's that?]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, because we negotiated it!]] The extension of childcare is especially important to me, but of course we also want to take other initiatives. We will continue to develop the quality framework so that child care in Austria looks the same. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We will continue to develop the au pair rule. We will create new forms of care, we will continue to promote the training of day-parents, day-fathers and day-mothers. We will see child care as a very important topic in my department and will continue to invest in childcare and, above all, in high-quality childcare in Austria in order to support the families that have children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As the last topic, I would like to address the indexing of family benefits: Over the past five years, additional costs amounted to EUR 70 million, with regard to the payment of child support abroad. In 2013, 94,000 children were paid EUR 192 million in EU foreign countries, EEA and Switzerland, and EUR 253 million in 2017. [[Mr Lueger and Mr Loacker.]] We want the child allowance, which replaces the cost of living, to be fair and fair, especially for the children in Austria. In Austria, child support can only be used to replace certain cost of living, while in other countries with these 200 euros you can pay much more. In some countries this is almost an average income. [[New call of the abg. Listen to me.]] With this indexing, we remain 78 million euros in family aid, which we can currently use for families in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Other priorities are: We want to reform the Flaf, we want to see that the services from the Flaf really benefit our families. We want to increase the compatibility of work and family with the expansion of childcare. But we also want to look at the child care account again. We have reintroduced this last year and will now evaluate it to see what the families in Austria need in order to see how we can increase the partnership and how we can best take the men with child care money. Of course, we want to promote anonymous and free advice services for families, we want to promote parenting. Parenting is a very important tool so that they then point out to their children how they deal with a mobile phone, for example, how they deal with a tablet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I think it is precisely in these new media that one must invest, but above all also in parental education in this context. We want to promote violence prevention and, of course, projects that accompany parents and children in difficult situations. In addition, of course, I have a very important concern about youth policy, which has already been mentioned at the outset. I really want to thank the young people in Austria for their commitment. I am also pleased that so many young people do a lot of work in non-school work, are involved in many projects and do a lot in honorary office. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It is therefore very important for us to support young people as much as possible with our youth support. Youth policy is also a cross-sectional matter, that is, it concerns not only my place of business, but also other ministries. For example, I should like to mention the Erasmus+ programme, which we want to make lower levels so that young people who have not yet entered the Erasmus+ programme can also participate. In addition, we want to reduce red tape. Youth mobility is also very important to us. In this sense, I am pleased that during our EU Presidency, we can develop the new European Youth Strategy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Where's the budget?]] With this budget, we ensure that the families in Austria receive the necessary support and that we make a choice for the future of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40256	The next item is the speech by Mrs Claudia Plasolm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40280	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators of today's National Council meeting! 175 Members of this House have experienced a policy of debt making since their birth – 175 out of 183 Members! [[Abg. Krainer: But last year the debt went down!]] [[Abg. Haider: (in the direction of Abg. This is a mistake!]] [[Abg. Krainer: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! Mr Fuchs, how many billion have the debt gone down?]] Only eight of us were already in the world when the Republic last cut off debt, that was over 60 years ago. Since then, we have experienced permanent debt policy, a debt policy at the expense of the next generations. [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] When I think back to school, I remember that we learned that it is actually living practice that a state makes debt and a state also has debt. We currently have 290 billion euros of public debt. Our children and young people carry a debt backpack of about 33 000 euros on their shoulders. Every newborn in Austria comes into the world with 33 000 euros of debt. If you build a house, you think about the funding well and precisely, you don't want to leave your children, grandchildren and great-grandparents behind any debts. Everyone is careful about his private money. And so we also deal with the tax money of the Austrians carefully and responsibly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Sieber.]] This week we decide on the budget for 2018 and 2019, this week we decide to end the debt policy after over 60 years. This is the best news for the youth of today and tomorrow. Through a reasonable and responsible state budget, we enable many investments in the future and thus in youth. At the same time, we refrain from new or increased taxes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Austria is in the leading field, the tax rate in the leading field is currently 43 percent. We relieve people, we relieve families. One of many measures has already been discussed a lot, namely the family bonus. From 2019 onwards, the tax burden per child and per year is reduced by 1,500 euros, for which we take 1.5 billion euros into our hands. The family bonus benefits 950 000 families with 1.6 million children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As a new Member of Parliament, it is of course also important for me to convey policies to individuals in a semi-understandable manner and to explain the impact of the budget on individuals, in this case on a family or a youth. What is the budget used for families and youth? – This budget will finance family support, childcare, school leave, schoolbooks, but also support youth organisations and advisory services. Youth policy affects all sectors, especially if we want to make future-oriented policies. I am therefore pleased that the Austrian Youth Strategy will continue, because it is necessary for each ministry to consider the consequences of its own policy for the next generations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] When we talk about youth policy, it is important that we talk not only about young people but also about young people. We have some success in Parliament, because 13 Members here are under 30 years old. I think there are many other ways to let young people speak, two of which would be the reduction of the electoral age in works council elections to 16 years and the legal anchoring of student parliaments here in the plenary room of the National Council. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Youth work takes place primarily in clubs, whether in sports, in the fire department, in music or in one of 37 youth organizations with a total of 1.6 million members in Austria. The support for youth organisations remains the same, because we are happy to support this valuable and meaningful youth work. A warm thanks to all those who volunteer in many associations and organizations for youth and thus make a valuable contribution to society. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to conclude with a sentence from the budget speech by Minister for Finance Hartwig Löger: “Let’s stress that this unique home for our children and for our grandchildren is not a burden [...], but a springboard into a good future.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40407	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40437	Mr Pakolm has just said that 173 Members had seen only debt policy in their lifetimes. [[Abg. Plasolm: 175!]] I'm actually correcting: Finance Minister Löger said in the Budget Committee that in fact in 2017, debt in Austria declined by more than 7 billion euros not only in percent of GDP but in absolute terms. Mr Fuchs is certainly available for detailed information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40484	Mrs Mag.a Andrea Kuntzl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40509	Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, Mrs. Minister has left the hall. Ending with the family-political fairy tale hours of the last minutes, let's look at what measures They really put it and how these will arrive in the people's life-reality! The family bonus: For the family bonus, there will be an evil awakening for the parents of 150,000 children in that country, for there will be nothing for 150,000 children in that country. But these are not children of parents who deserve a lot, but these 150,000 children are children of parents who deserve very little. This is the new style you introduce into family policy. It used to be called: Every child is worth the same amount, we want to support all children the same, to promote the same! Discussions have been held on how to support children who live with parents who have little. But now you're turning it around. They say: We support the children of parents who earn a lot more, and children of parents who earn very little do not get anything! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: 1 700 Euro is worth a lot? Well, thank you!]] This is really a embarrassing change of course in family policy, you don't need to be proud of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There would have been a good, fair and simple way of distributing the volume you make available without the great administrative effort that the family bonus will entail; They could have increased the family allowance for each child by about EUR 100, and all children would have benefited and it would have been fair. “Increasing childcare”, says the Minister for Child Care: That is not the case in the budget, quite the opposite. In recent years, there has been a joint effort by the federal and state governments to continue the development of childcare facilities, to promote the development of childcare places in joint effort. That's what you're saying now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] The 52 million euros that were set are reduced to de facto zero – from 52 million to 1 000 euros, i.e. to zero. How you want to ensure the expansion of the childcare facilities, which we are told fairy tales here, is completely unanswered. At the same time, Mr. Kurz and Mr. Strache can afford a fee of 66 million euros. [[Abg. Sieber: How high was that at Mr. Kern?]] Ladies and gentlemen! These 66 million euros would be very well designed in the development of childcare facilities. Think about it again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Sieber, Mr Haider and Mr Zanger.]] Dear gentlemen of the liberals, what did your speaker say earlier? – “You don’t interrupt a lady!” Maybe that's true of other women in this house, they're all treated the same way, aren't they? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: But you can make an intermediate call!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: But this is nothing compared to what Wittmann mentioned earlier!]] I propose the following motion for a resolution so that you can have a chance to make a change of course: [[Quoted print version removed]] So: Reroute 66 million euros for short and straight to childcare facilities; we do not need the basket money, the childcare facilities very urgently! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[18:35]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40679	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Ricarda Berger spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40707	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Dear colleagues! Appreciate spectators here on the gallery and in front of the screens! High house! I am very pleased to be able to give my first speech here in the House today on the subject of youth. Youth policy is not only a policy for young people, but above all a policy with young people. At the same time, it is also a cross-sectional matter, as we have heard today. However, policy must and should be the task of developing the right strategies for the needs and concerns of young people so that our youth in Austria can find the best conditions for their future. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is very concerned about creating the same framework conditions and supporting and promoting young people so that they can develop into self-employed, but also self-confident personalities. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has made a lot of points. I cannot mention everyone because of the limited speaking time and will therefore only add a handful of it. As I have just mentioned that youth policy is not only a policy for young people, but also a policy with young people, I would like to mention the youth strategy. The development of a youth strategy without the participation of young people would not be a modern form of youth policy. The Austrian Youth Strategy is an ongoing process and, accordingly, is subject to a permanent follow-up. development. In order to take better account of the realities of young people's lives, the Austrian Youth Strategy will be extended in its content in this legislative period, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another point and an archival requirement of the FPÖ was and is the implementation of a uniform law on youth protection throughout the country. It is already remarkable that in a relatively small country like Austria, nine different laws on youth protection have been applied for decades, since reality is such that in some regions one can walk from one federal to another. Minister of State Dr. Bogner-Strauss is very keen to come up with a single federal solution. The talks are going very well, as she also personally assured me in the conversation. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! For this Federal Government, however, child and youth health is also of enormous importance. Early investment and preventive measures have an impact in adulthood. I also come to non-smokers protection for children and young people. In the sense of improved non-smokers protection for children and young people, for example, the ban on smoking in vehicles in the presence of children and young people up to 18 years of age is implemented – an extremely important but also extremely correct measure, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Another point is digitization, which has also been addressed by the Federal Minister. As we all know, digitalisation is progressing in all situations of life and offers a huge opportunity and enormous future opportunities for our youth. As part of the School Book Action, the offer of educational resources is constantly extended by e-books as digital school books, thus providing the opportunity to promote learning through digital media at all schools in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, I can hold: Youth is our future and family guarantees this future. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For this very reason, it is our top goal, together with this Federal Government, to create the best possible framework conditions for our young people and our families in order to give them a successful start in life. In particular, we must protect our young people actively, but above all, from violence, alcohol, nicotine and drug abuse and offer them alternatives, but above all future prospects.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40795	Next speaker: Mr Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40816	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Values Watchers at the gallery! First, Madam Minister: I've been a little irritated by your words now, and you've been talking about family being where children are. That was your statement. From my point of view, this is already a very close version of the family concept. For me, family is where people want to find each other and take responsibility for each other. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Singer: Family is where children are born!]] I believe that it would be an important positioning of your place of business to be more open and to include a long-term perspective. In principle, the situation of young people in this country: We all come into the world with almost 40 000 euros of debt. What could you do with these 40,000 euros? - Each of us knows how much money this is. You could probably buy several cars. You could make a world trip. One could do a good study abroad because, unfortunately, we do not bring the quality together at our universities, and quite a lot more things. This is not possible, however, because we just have this debt mountain. We are coming to the world with 39 000 euros of debt, and that will not change with your budget either. [[O-ja-run at FPÖ.]] - Well, then you can't count. You tell us a lot about the surplus you will have in 2019. 500 million euros compared to 290 billion euros, this is a drop on the hot stone. There's nothing left to pay off. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Really? Quite honestly, that's an assification of every...
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40889	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take this back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40911	I take this back, but I remain clear that this simply does not correspond to the truth. The 39 000 euros remain 39 000 euros. [[Call the FPÖ:As in school! As in school!]] We all agree, I believe, that youth policy is a cross-sectional matter and that your place alone cannot do much. I think you have 9 million euros available for youth policy measures, a large part of which can be seen in cross-sectional matter. That's why it's important that you take important measures, for example, a university and education offensive, that you invest where the future of our next generation is concerned. I do not see this as a big picture in this budget. It would be important that You're taking a big pension reform. I see the first step you are taking now, but there are still quite a lot of things missing, the approximation of the age of women's pensions, for example, all these things that are necessary to leave something for the next generation. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You don't need that!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In general, the topic of education and training is also extremely important for the next generations. What we invest in education and training today is the future of the next generations. If we invest today, we will create jobs in the future and avoid unemployment. How do you want to deal with the issue of waste tax? That's not clear in your budget. How do you want to prevent that? How do you want to ensure that countries finally work in such a way that it is also sustainable for the next generations that the tax money is not partially wasted? And if you do not introduce the debt brake, nothing will be left for the next generations; against it, too, wear You yourself, we had that a few weeks ago. At the end of the day exactly these questions remain. These are the question marks in the eyes of our generation. We think: Well, there's nothing happening, you tell a lot, you've announced a lot, you're doing nothing! The only thing you notice right now is a policy of decommissioning, and that was it again. [[Call the FPÖ:Where?]] Especially for us as a generation Europe is a very important issue – you mentioned Erasmus+, a great programme. Come on. You now have a policy of decommissioning. They only talk about whether the children are Austrians or children of people who work only in Austria, and divide them. I think this is questionable, and I think I'm very dangerous for the next generations. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In particular, when I think of the Presidency of the Council, it is precisely this European policy that is working deeply against the next generation and one that will destroy the opportunities in the long term. Actually, we should give the next generation perspectives. We should take courage in her for the challenges that await her; there are quite a lot that every young person will face in his life. In this budget, however, I see zero perspective for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e40983	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41004	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The plus in the 2018 budget is mainly due to the plus 1.9 percent of family support. If you look at the year 2019, you have to say that there is likely to be a little minus because we want to index the family allowance that goes abroad. That means simply and simply, I assume that what would have been possible for England will be possible for Austria in the EU. It's in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear Mrs. Mühlberghuber, to your wish that the good budget with many perspectives should rather be recognized by the left half of the empire – it will be criticized –: It won't play. Positive recognition of this half is only possible if we are committed to politics that goes in the direction that children, when they get to the world, are immediately accommodated in all day scripts, then in the whole day's children's hort and in the all day school and mother at the red union – then one finds recognition, otherwise not. We can forget that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] - Yes, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you belong to that. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You always say freedom of choice! Have a good time!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! An essential positive measure implemented at 1.1.2019 is the family bonus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It is simply and simply a tax relief for families, for women and men with children who pay wage tax or income tax. [[Abg. Singer: Yes, grandiose project!]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I would have a request to the list of mushrooms: Perhaps you can do something for Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, she went out after her speech – and I understand that; after this personal downfall I would have gone out too, you can't stay inside. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] It was a personal downfall towards the Federal Minister and to colleagues in Kühberger. I'm just saying, you know, it's just... it's... it's Actually, it was a speech that was talking about envy or something. I think we should show appreciation for families who confess to children. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Kühberger has decided to confess to six children with his wife Brigitte and thus to do a great job for this Republic long before he has come to Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] The fact that we now have a federal government, which also recognises family work tax, is positive. You should appreciate that too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I think we can hold on: There is no lack of money for the families in Austria, but there is a need for more personal appreciation. As we talk about families that have more children, it is a clear sign of appreciation.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41121	Next speaker: Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41146	Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the breakdown of families and youth, I have to say that the vision of a modern family policy goes down. Those children who are already poor will remain poor, and those children who are fortunately better and good will only be a little better. You will all know that we currently have over 6 billion euros in direct family benefits in Austria, and it is still so that we are European champions in terms of these direct benefits. With the decision of the family bonus plus – my previous speakers expected more than 7 billion euros, and from 2019 it will become over 9 billion euros – we will become world champions. Does that mean that there will be fewer poor children in this country? – No, I do not think there will be fewer poor children, and it is so that it will fail to achieve fair distribution. I am very sorry that where one could actually exercise justice, i.e. in the case of more or less tax gifts, I would like to say carefully that one does not invest in benefits in kind – then very, very many children in this country would have more opportunities and would be closest to having fair and equal opportunities in this society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Do you know what makes me particularly concerned? – I am particularly concerned that in the budget, the 52 million euros, which are so important for countries, for their planning, for planning security, have been added to a thousand to extend childcare and educational facilities. That's very unfortunate. I think what are countries and communities to invest in the future, what is this for a negotiating basis for countries and communities, especially for the countries, if they are so under pressure of time in the middle of the year perhaps lucky that the budget will continue and will probably not be increased at all? That is why I say that this federal government lacks visions for a modern family policy. By the way, Mrs Minister: I very much ask you to tell the people the truth! Tell the enemy or perhaps those who have reservations about people from other countries the truth! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you know that indexing family aid is illegal in the EU, that the relevant EU regulation needs to be changed and that we will not receive a qualified majority across the EU. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's not true!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's fact, and that's why I can recommend: Make up with what is saved according to your precalculation, this approximately 80 million euros, a reserve, Mrs Minister, and think of my speech today - because if we have to stand there and say to the people, we cannot keep this promise, because it is not possible at all. So: More courage for a modern, honest family policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41194	Next speaker: Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41216	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer – now he has just come back – I would like to thank you very much for your actual correction. They had, I have to say, a certain humor factor. You know, that's what I'm thinking: Knowledge is not always everything, sometimes silence is gold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] It is great that you have here once again recorded to the public that you have not made 100 percent of the time debt, but in fact only 99.9% of the time. I congratulate you on this achievement, and you can be proud of it as a Member of the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the Youth Budget: Mr Holzleitner, also from the SPÖ, has criticized the cuts which have unfortunately been made by the youth organisations, which are very small. Of course this is not desirable, of course we would always like to promote everything more, but, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, do you know what is really moving young people? Do you know what really bothers the youth? – This is your irresponsible debt policy over the past ten years under socialist leadership, which really disturbs youth. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Do you know what I think about that? – I can tell you: I think that youth oblivion is a thing of the past because of debt, debt and even more debt in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Friedl.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Imagine – I try to explain it to you – that you would receive a credit, you would then afford a great luxury house and a luxury vacation, and you would register the children and grandchildren as an obstinate payer of this credit. [[New call of the abg. Friedl.]] This is the irresponsible policy of recent years, and you are responsible under SPÖ Chancellorship. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your achievements or what you have done was not a house, but you have done yourself an irresponsible asylum and migration policy that cost billions. You have done so instead of investing in your own youth in this country. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But that, ladies and gentlemen, is final. For the first time we are going to spend more on this budget than on spending, and this is a generation-based policy, which is a youth-friendly policy in that country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But let us return to the budget, let us return to youth policy: Yes, youth policy – it has been said many times today – is a cross-sectional matter. That is why it is also a central task for you, Mrs. Minister, to ensure that youth is top priority in all areas and that you, of course, also have discussions with the other ministries to ensure this principle. That is why I am pleased that you referred to the implementation and further development of the Youth Strategy as the primary objective. The, ladies and gentlemen, is very important, and I am therefore pleased that you have mentioned this explicitly again. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But not only the youth budget, not only the individual payouts – because the possibilities in your resort are limited, these are mainly payments to youth organisations – are youth policy. Youth policy covers all areas, and many sensible measures have already been initiated. For example, in the future, investment will be made in education and science. More investment is being made in universities, more investment is being made in colleges, more teaching is being expanded, more investment is being made in vocational schools. There is also an increase in the budget for teaching with Matura, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to say this at this point: A country that traines too few skilled workers loses its skills to be a production site. Instead of training skilled workers, you prefer to import skilled workers in recent years. That too was the wrong access, ladies and gentlemen. We prefer to invest in training our own youth. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was also noted that participation is not strengthened. That too is wrong. For the first time, the student representation and also the student parliament are really being upgraded by finally enshrined the student parliament. This is not only a long-standing demand for freedom, but it has also long been a requirement of the Federal Student Office. Many other areas have been mentioned where youth benefits, for example by the family-friendly policy guaranteed by this government. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Even in the area of the Federal Government, the youth has in future benefits by attracting the ground defense service. This too is a sensible and good measure of our Minister of Defense Mario Kunasek. [[Call the SPÖ: What did he do?]] Let's come back to the UG 25 budget again. As has been said, the scope for action is not large, which is the funding of 8.9 million euros paid to various youth organisations. On the one hand, these are the political youth organizations such as the Free Youth, the Socialist Youth and many more. Unfortunately, there are cuts, but do you know what this government will no longer be doing? – There will not be what has happened in the past, for example, that various ministries will pay out funding in the form of advertisements to, for example, the study planner of socialist youth. There, 90 000 euros of advertisements were paid by red ministries in addition to youth promotion. This will certainly not be the case with this government either. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is the task of policy to create a framework for our children and young people to develop into independent, independent, self-responsible persons, enabling them to make full use of their potential. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] This budget has provided an excellent basis for the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41347	The next item is Mrs Fichtinger's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41369	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The Secretary of State is not here right now. Dear spectators in front of the remote See devices! High house! The double budget we're going to decide this week is a success story, even if it's not spoken about by the opposition. Minister of Finance Löger mentioned in his budget speech that more funds are being made available for family benefits per year by 30 million euros. It has already been mentioned: 950 000 families and 1.6 million children will benefit from this. It has been specifically addressed to the family bonus, and I have to mention this issue again – Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is unfortunately still not here –: In fact, it is a shame to say something like this and to provoke a debate of envy against our colleagues in Kühberger. Congratulations, the family has decided to have six children. Ask him what his wife is asked when she is on the move with six children! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think that is a great appreciation, and this can be very positive. Investing in the future of our children is certainly the best investment. One important point, I believe, is that child care for the next few years is also ensured by this 15a agreement, that discussions are also taking place with the countries and that this can go well again, especially for rural areas. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget, a budget with a house mind, we end the debt policy. We are implementing what we voted for in October. We work in the sense of our children, our families, we work for our Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41414	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. 6 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41435	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Colleague Hoyos-Trauttmansdorff, my family image is the following, which I hold straight and clear: Family is where children are born. - Punctual, off, done. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The family bonus is a great project, a great measure. 950 000 families are supported, 1 600 000 children, 1 500 euros per child per year, where this can still be divided. This bonus takes effect from an income of EUR 1 700 gross per month. So this concerns, valued spectators, also in front of the television screens, those who make EUR 1 700 gross. So these are the ones the SPÖ says about, these are rich, server servants and so on, who deserve much too well to get paid out this bonus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Mrs Kuntzl, I will now tell you how such a server servant looks like the SPÖ: If you earn 1,700 euros gross, net 1 310 euros remain. Now you have to finance your life. An apartment costs about 500 euros – and I'm just talking about what I'm doing in the country – and there are still costs for heating and electricity, because you don't want to live in the cold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] I still charge 200 euros because you also need a car in the country, you depend on it. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Say something to the 150 000...!]] With us no subways cross from one valley to another. This results in a total of around 1 000 euros of budget costs. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Say something to the 150 000...!]] That means, to live, to eat, to drink and to dress, people stay 300 euros or 400 euros from me. And these are your server servants! Thank you! I hope that's what all people have heard. According to SPÖ, every Voest hacker, who stands on the outside and has a net salary of 1 300 euros, is a server servant! [[Prolonged applause with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] With the family bonus, we now return 125 euros per month to these people, who remain 300 euros per month or 400 euros net. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] That's almost 25 percent of what they have now. That's a good performance, don't make it bad! Think about what you said! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In contrast, what have you taken these people so far? – 1 200 euros to 1 500 euros have tax money Put them out of the bag so far! 950 000 families have paid for paying child-moving facilities to take the child away from their parents as early as possible and to make them grow up in government education. [[Call to the SPÖ: This is a cowardice!]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] You have caused 950 000 families to bleed in order to ensure that refugees can all come in under the guise of thought and all social benefits. You have organized the action free train rides – for illegal migrants, from the Oberschlepper Kern, who has transported them all through the country with the ÖBB. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Deputies Heinisch-Hosek and Gamon: Order call!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] These 950 000 families have the right to pay for those who are able to come in and cannot speak German; you have burdened 950 000 families, for senseless integration projects. Remember Mr Dönmez's speech yesterday, he knows what he is talking about! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You have burdened 950 000 families to put money out of the window, for all who say: Why should we work when we get through with minimum security anyway? For this you have spent the money and finally still for yourselves, because the delegates are also paid out of the budget, with tax money, for a red parliamentarian going here and saying to a voters, to a simple worker standing below: Don't you know who I am? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You know what? – Mr Schieder should come to the Styria, we will tell you there. Then he'll be there before his hackers and say: Don't you know who I am? Do you know what they're doing? – They hunt him back to Vienna with the proverbial wet fetzen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Great have you, with a photo of Kern and the message “Get what is yours.” Do you, colleagues from SPÖ, know who in this country knows what is in him? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Knowledge does this to any illegal migrants, for you have trained them before. So everyone knows what he gets and where he can request. Knowledge also does it to every good person, because they deal with it. Whoever does not know, these are the simple people who hack outside and give back to them what is theirs, what you have taken from them before! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41599	Mr Zanger, I assume that you know that the term “top dragper” deserves a call for order. I'm sorry, I have to give you a call for order now, not only because you said "Oberschlepper", but also because in many cases you have hit very emotionally over the strands. [[Abg. Singer bows towards the Bureau]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus]] [[Call the SPÖ: Why are you sorry?]] [[Abg. Krist: This is an increase in the Bureau!]] There's a call for order for that. Mrs Kugler's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41685	Madam President. Minister! I am also a little worried about the NEOS, but maybe for reasons that have not yet been mentioned. Mr Bernhard called for family financial benefits to be replaced by benefits in kind to help women get into work quickly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bernhard.]] I think we can actually call this a kind of premeditation. It seems that this is not about freedom of choice and self-determination, and there you have to wonder what is hidden under the guise of “liberal”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Family benefits: It has been mentioned briefly by the Minister that the Flaf should be reformed. I think this is very important and would like to stress it briefly now: The Flaf is intended to compensate for the economic additional burden on family members, which is not alms. It is very important to consider what services of the Flaf are foreign to the family and what the core tasks of the Flaf are. To do this, you can ask yourself questions such as: Is it necessary for pension contributions to be financed by the Flaf for child rearing periods, or could this actually be done in the social sector? Or do the non-introductory maintenance advances not actually belong to the judicial system? Or isn't the weekly fee actually part of health insurance? A schmankerl is the children's free ride: An annual ticket for an adult costs 365 euros at the Vienna lines, but Flaf pays for a ticket for children over 500 euros. Here, I think, there is a need for reform. Why should the Flaf be reformed? – In order to secure family benefits in the long term. One goal is that if the family benefits of the Flaf are secured, we may also be able to valorize the family benefits. That would be a great task for our family policy. I would also like to thank the Minister for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41730	Mr Bernhard spoke on an actual amendment. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41755	I am correcting my colleague, who said that I would have said in my speech that the benefits should be replaced by benefits in kind. Rather, it is true that in my speech today I have not talked at all about the benefits of property and money in concrete terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41794	Next, Mr Kovacevic. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41816	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Dear Seers! I can take the opportunity to welcome and welcome the visit from my home town of Wörgl right at the beginning. Hello, welcome! [[General condolences.]] When I got here in the House, I decided not to address the way Members and/or colleagues have made speeches, but especially the previous speakers of the FPÖ make it very difficult for me to do so. [[Abg. Kassinger: What's so hard?]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: The truth is hard!]] I hope that this was not too subtle, but especially in view of your last speech, Mr. Zanger, I wonder why In the topic of budget, use 5 minutes to appeal to the SPÖ and to speak badly, and not lose a positive word about your budget, which you are convinced of, because it is actually meant for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: Where were you, like...?]] [[Abg. Singer: Sensefully listen!]] Please allow me to return to the content. The topic of family budget is inevitably also linked to the topic of childcare. There is the so-called agreement in accordance with Article 15a between the Federal Government and countries ensuring that the necessary financial resources for childcare facilities are made available to the Federal Government. We have heard from the Minister before that, unfortunately, these 15a agreements have not yet been negotiated. The draft budget now contains only statements of intent. This, of course, makes it difficult for countries and communities to make plans for the next few years and to ensure funding. It is a bit a pity that this is not really recorded in numbers in the budget. But above all, it also means uncertainty for families, parents and children, because a purely intentional declaration does not guarantee sufficient quality and availability of childcare places. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I come to two or three points, which are not at all or not really shown in the budget estimate. Violence Prevention: Women and children must be protected from violence. In this area in particular, it is not possible to make the funds available. Plans for school psychologists – clearly, that belongs to the UG 30: Education, but is also very important for the topic of families and youth; also the issue of child poverty and in this context child and youth assistance. These issues are mentioned in the government programme, but the budget does not contain the necessary precautions. The topic of family bonus has already been overstepped. It is clear that you are using this topic again and again when there is criticism of the budget; only it seems to me that you are always taking this family bonus, which has now turned out to be a pure tax relief, as a cover. If criticism of the family budget, at the youth budget, then we talk about the family bonus, he should cover everything else and also cover the other failures somewhere. But that's me, I'm sorry, too little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please allow me a few more thoughts on the subject of youth: Before the elections, young people and young voters are always the target of the campaigning parties, but after the elections it is over relatively quickly. You don't hear that much anymore, because these topics disappear a little bit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We have heard a little bit about youth issues for the first time today. For the first time, it was addressed by Collaborative Berger by the previous speakers. It's important to me to say: It is not enough to present only young faces or put up young people, who then represent old-known or conservative positions. I think we should also, and this is very serious, address the issues that are really important for young people and young people. For example, we have heard from Mr Pakolm how great this budget is not, but she does not address the federal youth organisations and the lack of valorization. I think these are exactly the points where we have to go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time, thought is being given to abolishing youth confidence councils. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are exactly the measures that young people do not serve. In the course of our parliamentary work, we will work to ensure that we really address the issues that are important to young people, and not just empty words. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41941	Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Time left: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e41963	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the Members' series and above all also dear spectators in front of the screens! I would like to start by thanking you, Mrs Minister, for focusing on family in the government and throughout the federal debate – because family policy is future policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Today the young ÖVP Styria was here in the house, and she has already dealt with the topic of family. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is particularly important because it is important to make young people, young families, invest in children and in the future. For a few years now I have been dealing with different families, both professionally and as a councillor and as chairman of the Committee on Family, Youth, Children and Social Affairs in Graz, and I know different families with us. It is particularly important that the parental and family advisory services are also looked at in federal political terms. At this point, I would like to thank the many employees who make great efforts there for doing the day after day and accompanying many families and parents. This is a very important work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 1 million less!]] I am Graz MP and I come from the second largest district in Graz, Lend. For those who don't know Graz so well: That's the district with the station. We have in our district very, very many families with very different accesses. There would be a family: Stefan and Chiara, he is a worker, she works in the administration, have two children with each other, Max and Anna. They turn every euro around. With the family bonus, we are able to support exactly there. Exactly the families that work hard every day, which face great challenges to deal with all the family tasks, can now relieve us of tax burden and provide them with additional 3 000 euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This measure is so important in that it will affect around 44,000 children in Graz alone. We need to look closely at the children, because the children of today are the adults of tomorrow. They're our future. - Today I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42029	I should now like to ask Mr Bernhard for his speech. You have 2 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42051	Madam President. Estimated Minister! – Yeah, he's coming back, the actual correction hasn't been enough. [[Abg. New builder: Again!]] [[Abg. Martin Graf: This is Murphy’s law!]] I would like to address what Mr Kugler has said, because she is very concerned about our family image. I'd like to get that straight. For us NEOS is quite clear that the people who make up families in their living rooms, as they stand together as a family. This is not the task of politics. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the M.A. Bißmann.]] That, on which Mrs Kugler referred, was an issue of the Parliamentary Directorate, which is not mine. That's what it was about: We know that international studies demonstrate that child benefits are more effective than cash benefits and that benefits are more successful if there is a great imbalance. [[Abg. Martin Graf: But that must also apply to refugees, doesn't it?]] We NEOS are not only actually open and liberal in our family policy, but also think evidence based. If we know what works, then we will of course be able to ask what exactly the Minister has planned. [[Abg. Haider: What kind of a wash is that?]] The Minister's answer was that she will not take further account of these international studies, which are generally recognised. - So much for it. That was the whole state of things. It's clear to us: Social benefits come directly to the children, and for us NEOS counts the well-being of the children, which we place at the heart of our political action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42134	Thank you very much, honourable Member. There are now no more words on the sub-dividing of families and youth. The discussions on this subject have therefore been completed. I am now interrupting the meeting until Thursday, 19. April, 9 o'clock. Negotiations will be held with the deliberations of subheading 30: Education and subdivision 31: Science and research continued. Good evening! – The session is interrupted. [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 18. On April 19, 2018, at 7.22 p.m. and on Thursday, 19th. April 2018, resumed at 9.05 a.m.]] [[19:22:08]] [[09:05:12]] Continued the meeting: 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42183	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! I'm allowed to interrupt yesterday's 19th. Resumption of the meeting of the National Council. It is the third and last day of our budget consultations, and I think everyone is well equipped and well rested to let this day pass by in peace and quiet. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: Ing. Androsch, Katzian, Dr. Lintl and Schartel. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42214	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and Exterior Dr. Karin Kneissel is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Herbert Kickl. We continue the budget consultation. I'm allowed to announce that ORF 2 is transferring the meeting live as it was yesterday until 1 p.m. ORF III will be transferred to the full session from 19.40 a.m. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42256	We have agreed a day block speaking time of 8 “Vienna hours”. It is therefore the ÖVP 148, SPÖ and FPÖ each 132 as well as NEOS and list Pilz per 44 minutes. The division of today's discussions is known to you all. [[09:06:47]] UG 30: Education UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42292	We start with the discussions on education and science and research subdivisions. The debate on this will take place under one. Mrs Hammerschmid is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42317	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! Our topic today is the UG 30: Education. My biggest challenge is the limited speaking time, because there is really much to be said about the educational budget. I would like to remind you at the beginning of the debate of the Federal Government. Your own goal, that you do not want to save on education, and your statement that education is one of the most important areas of your projects. Let me start with the fact-finding check: At first glance, the amount for the UG 30 increased by 138 million euros in 2018 compared to the previous year. However, a look at the details is sufficient to see what lies behind it, namely urgent investment in spatial infrastructure – no question at all – and the increase is of course also due to the increase in salaries for educators, whom I would like to thank at this point for their daily commitment to the benefit of our children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of ÖVP, NEOS and List Pilz.]] It is not a visionary budget with scope for design, no, I even dare to say that it is a budget that will not even cover the structural gap whose closure the ÖVP finance ministers have refused for many years. [[Call the ÖVP: You left behind!]] The zigzag course in the German classes shows impressively how narrow it is obviously in the budget. What is currently being understood and argued about as a criticism that comes from colleagues from science, but also from the practical side – it would be plausible, if it were so – could be interpreted as a miscalculation of your part, because from 230 additional German classes suddenly become 80, and only the school beginners are more involved. What was also deleted – with a simple dash – is the integration stopper. In this way 450 language teachers, 250 integration teachers, 85 psychologists and the members of the mobile teams from the system are tilting. They will be taken away from schools – and this is a very important issue at a time when integration is a very important one. As a migration expert and renowned scientist, you, Mr. Federal Minister, know exactly that integration is not a biennial project but a longer-term effort. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the NEOS.]] Next Topic: It is always stressed that the new secondary schools should be strengthened. At the same time, you are insecure the educators at these schools because, as often as I am, I have to say, you are running notice policy, talking about efficiency effects and increases, but then you are missing concrete, realistic, feasible measures and concepts, see German classes. In addition, when you look closely at the budgets for the New Middle Schools, you can see that they are falling! Is it really serious now that you want to strengthen the New Middle School? They also argue in a request response, the falling budgets for the New Middle School and for the primary level only reflect the declining number of students. But if you're going to have the type of school, To strengthen new secondary school, to increase the number of students and to increase the attractiveness, you have to take more money into your hands! This can therefore not be so serious as to strengthen the New Secondary School. [[Abg. Steinacker: It's always about money! It's about structures!]] In the impact goals, Mr. Federal Minister, you emphasize the implementation of the Digitalisation Strategy 4.0. I myself was involved in their development, was responsible for it and therefore knows how expensive it is to implement it realistically and innovatively. Only the measures for infrastructure – Wi-Fi equipment, broadband; we only heard this early this morning how bad we are in the international comparison – cost 100 million euros, but it is not a single euro to be found in the budget for digitisation or to be reduced. [[Abg. Hauser: But that would have been your job! A self-reliance!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Last topic: school all day. They simply stretch out the funds for seven years to 2032, which is a halve of the funds. If you have always and rightly spoken about the fact that our students should be able to read, write and calculate better, then this is exactly the appropriate way to increase basic skills, because it is time for students to work with, promote and demand them in all day schools. [[Abg. Hauser: You didn't even close the structural gap!]] The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Riedl, also advises: Please get more funds into all day schools! In the urban sector, demand is still unbroken anyway. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister! They save in the educational package and in the budget at all corners and ends. This is a number of retro-politics on the back of our children and our educators. This is a policy of future oblivion! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of NEOS and List Pilz.]] [[9:13]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42461	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Taschner has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42486	Mr President. High house! On Monday evening, during an event on school and education policy, I had the pleasure, the director of a so-called focal school – that's what it's called – in the 3rd century. Get to know district, and this delicate little lady told me the following: When a parent came to her to talk about her child, the father explained: The woman's coming to the back of the corner, I'm talking to you alone. Thereupon they: Don't get into question. Answer: But she doesn't understand. Director: Then translate her, and what she says – and she will have something to say – then translate me. Finally, this gentleman gave the director a very good hand. – This budget is designed to support such teachers! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I have the name of the director here, if you want to know who this is and contact him. She does this really great, many teachers make it excellent, and they are grateful for our German funding classes – that is, Mrs. Hammerschmid! - to be set up. They are grateful that we will use the money that the Federal Minister for Education receives properly and specifically, also for trying to give the students, the schools autonomy, what they do and where they are careful; this is a very reasonable point of view. The fact that we are introducing a clear and sensible system in the field of compulsory education does not cost much, but it is useful and hopefully effective. Especially these German funding classes are very important, because, ladies and gentlemen, the hope that the children, when they sit in integration for four years, but can't say a word of German, are suddenly integrated is indeed an illusion. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We need to know that communication begins with language control and does not end integration sometime with language control – with hope –; without language control there is no integration at all. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it was Paul Valéry who said: “Le bon esprit est sec.” – The good spirit is dry. That means we have to look at things soberly. We must not be influenced by ideological prejudices. We must see things as they are and then distribute the funds that are sufficient for them, and that will happen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this sense, teachers are grateful to us for looking at things soberly. We will try, perhaps we will not make everything perfect, we would also be very grateful if we were to be given hints from many sides – but please note that they are constructive and not just given so that the people will hear what prejudices one wants to spread. For really constructive clues we are certainly open. We do it for the future of the country, we do it for the schools of Austria, we do it for the good future of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42540	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e42562	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We're negotiating the education budget! Mr. Taschner, you're a mathematician, and S' give you an austa - – – He's a mathematician, not a German teacher. [[Call ÖVP and FPÖ:Look!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Get out of there!]] [[Abg. Little: Here you put out “God”!]] [[Abg. Rosary: There you stand out!]] [[Abg. Rosary: It would be because of the support classes, Mr. Strolz!]] Here you will find out and refer to the fact that this budget has been made for the solution of the topic of language that we actually have in the Austrian school. Now I want to bring you a few numbers: This federal government states that it solves the topic with 80 so-called German funding classes. [[Abg. Rosary: It's great!]] Mr. Taschner, how many classes do we have in total in the Austrian school system? How many? [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] We have over 55 000 school classes in this country, and now the government is coming and saying: There we do 80 classes and the problem is solved! [[New applause with NEOS and SPÖ.]] We have a real problem – and that is the national coryphage for mathematics? It'll roll the toenails on you, I'll tell you! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That, of course, we have a problem on the subject of common language German, Mr Minister, we all know. [[Abg. Steinacker: compare apples and pears is wrong!]] In total, language is a topic that concerns both sides and autochthone. This has to do with the fact that social conditions have changed, that family associations have changed in composition. The three-generation family is no longer present, there are not so many siblings da et cetera. It tells me that the topic is of course also available to children with a parent house with a long Austrian tradition, and of course we have to counter it. We have to start – and the topic is now with you; that was also a long-term desire from us NEOS – finally bringing the kindergartens to the Ministry of Education. Of course, we must try to ensure that, after the one, two, three years of kindergarten, German is also dominated by the common language of teaching. I also say that this is not a rocket science and it is possible if we focus on cultivating the common language in kindergartens. At the same time, however, we learn to appreciate the first language, if it is not German, differently than before and different from the blue and black. Then we can do this! The problem is just: What are you doing with the kindergarten? – The theme of the second compulsory kindergarten year, which would also be so important in the sense of equal opportunities, is left to the left. The 15a agreement to do so in some way I don't trust the prospect, I don't trust – it's not budgeted either. On the topic of the extension of childcare, you suggest in 2019 – and now, Mr. Taschner, stop, there will again be a worrying number! – in fact 1 000 euros. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Call:Vulnerable]] 1 000 euros – do this to provoke or insult kindergarten teachers, or what is that supposed to do? That's completely free! A budget approach of 1 000 euros for hundreds of thousands of children, that is ridiculous. [[Call the SPÖ:Laughing!]] [[Abg. Noll: ( towards SPÖ) He has to repeat that!]] Then I look into the budget – and that's why my pain due to this budget is a tripler –: They do not take a step forward in the area of equal opportunities. [[Abg. Rädler: Why don't you go to SPÖ right now? You left!]] The issue of opportunity index, while the issue of social index has been taken up by the last government, you do not fill it with figures. You will not do it because you want to continue to drive the division of society. That's your theme! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] It's not your kids, it's clear to me. It's not your kids and you're whistling on it. [[New applause with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They support the cheese bell over the gymnasium and believe it's all good. I say: Yes, the gymnasias do a lot of good work – I want to keep them up with this good work – but you have to take more care of a social mix, and nothing comes from you! There's nothing from you! [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] They sit here and talk about focal schools. With your policy, you fire the focus schools so that you can then have a surface fire and thus continue to operate your political business model. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] – That’s the problem! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] On the topic of digitalization: In every McDonald’s branch I can sound in the WLAN; in the Austrian schools we can’t do that, and that in 2019. - We can't do it! [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] It's ridiculous that every McDonald's branch manages it, but the Austrian schools don't manage it, and that we end up with glass fibres, that we have also estimated zero in this budget. I can also call you a number again. On the topic of digitization and teacher training, the Minister said in the Committee: Yes, something has already been estimated, that is 500 000 euros – with 120,000 teachers. That's 4 tired euros per year per teacher. 4 euros?- Oh, my God! – This is really a powerful offensive! [[Cheerfulness and applause with NEOS and SPÖ.]] This allows him to download a dating app, that's all! 4 euros! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] In the children's rooms, digitization has arrived, but not in your heads, and with your budget, it will not arrive in the classroom either. [[Abg. Belakovich: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Wheelers: In the children's rooms...!]] That's a real problem. On the topic of integration: You delete the integration stop of 80 million euros, because you say integration was somehow important, but now it is no longer. – But, Minister, you are a scientist! You know that integration is a process. You can't say: Now for two years we spent something for it because 2015 was something!, but before 2015 we had powerful problems in integration and we have them today. [[Abg. Belakovich: We have war games in the mosque!]] And to say, we're cutting it away with the pot now, that's really robbery of the future against these young people. There are only losers, whether with domestic or foreign roots. There's only losers, and you know that. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] But you also know that with your kind of symbol policy you are simple Continue to maintain your political business model by yelling: There's a fire, but not ready to clear that fire. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You live with your political business model of this fire and you want to make it bigger. [[Abg. Belakovich: But they have... in the mosque!]] For example, you reduce the budget of the Innovation Foundation from 50 million to 2 million euros. Your message is: We do not need and want innovation in the Austrian school because everything is good anyway. – This is a misanalysis and that is, of course, a complete failure, as young people would say. [[Abg. Lugar: Does the SPÖ know what you're saying?]] That is why I put forward a motion for a resolution, because the idea of the Innovation Foundation was great. There would have also been many projects on digitisation. I think we need something like that for integration, namely an integration foundation, where we ask: Where are the successful solutions?, and we want to scale them and make them bigger. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So this is about legislative implementation, not about the budget. Unfortunately, there is a total failure in both areas. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Your... is immanent in the budget!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Inherent!]] [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Mölzer: (on the way to the speaker's desk) German course!]] [[9:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43007	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Mölzer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43031	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Appreciate spectators in front of the screens! Mr Strolz, I think in part of your statements: Si tacuisses, philosopher mannisses, so if you had kept silent, you would have remained philosopher. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: I'm a politician!]] You are right in many points: Tag Kindergarten, Early Childhood Education, Elementary Education. We have – and you have probably read this too – set out far-reaching measures in our government programme, which we will definitely implement. The Minister is working together with us, and there will certainly be something going on. But if you are always working with your polemics and settings between them – for example, we assume that we would dispossess society, but in truth do you nothing else and try to present it differently – then it is simply not okay to reject it and reject it. The premise of our policy is of course that we think of all the members of our society and in particular the weakest – in this case the children – take due account of it. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting – I have already said this in the last speeches – when Mrs Hammerschmid comes here, who, together with your party, has held responsibility in the field of education for more than ten years, and then tells us that everything is going badly. I wonder what you have done over the last ten years, colleague Heinisch-Hosek, colleague Hammerschmid! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Always the same leader!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because we ruled alone, didn't we?- Oh, my God!]] The colleague, Mr Schmied, is not here – I do not know if she is actually involved in municipal credit. It is interesting, however, that you are obviously unable to recognise that your policy has been selected. Unfortunately, I have to tell you this again and again at this point, but you should finally internalize it and consider what you have done wrong. One thing is clear from our point of view, and that is very important: Your criticism, I must say, gives us indirect justice, and I see that we are not doing everything wrong with this budget and with our government programme, but, on the contrary, we have taken the right course. [[Call: Neither indirectly yet directly, but not at all]] And I also have to say: We would, I believe, betray our voters, we would continue your policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has said in the Committee on Budgets that this is a good budget. – Without question, it’s not a perfect budget, we just have to repair old loads in this area. The educational gap – Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek has already gone; perhaps she is looking for how she has done the educational gap – we had to stop. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: (standing on the edge of the hall) Here I am!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: There it is, you just have to look!]] No question, it's not God's way that we can pump more billions into it, but there's definitely more money under the line. We share it a little differently – yes, that's not a question either – there will be interesting priorities there, and we will definitely take interesting measures. [[Call the SPÖ: Oh yes, that's also a question!]] End point: NMS. This is about improving efficiency, which is no question at all. We know what the Court of Auditors has criticized, word teamteaching et cetera. That's what we're going to look at. We will have to distribute the funds better, and then there will be more money indirectly through an increase in efficiency and more will arrive at the student in the classroom. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You don't know what team coaching is!]] Another point – you have completely neglected it because it did not fit into the ideological stuff – is the AHS, for which there will be more money. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What is Teamteaching?]] The AHS suffers from the fact that they have more and more students, Mrs. Colleague, who comes there for that - - – Stay with the matter, we are not here at school with you! Yeah, yeah. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I'm here!]] The AHS are getting more and more students in recent years, because the NMS is so bad, why we have to do something. That's a very interesting point. And another point – because you have addressed day care: Of course, we continue to take money for this, only in this context we are concerned with freedom of choice and not with the socialist compulsion you wanted with the restricted teaching of the whole day. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] No question, we also have a paradigm change in terms of integration policy! The German obligation is a milestone in this regard. They have always refused them in recent years. We could have gained time, but that's how we lost time. We're gonna do this now and we're gonna do it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What is Teamteaching?]] That is happening, and there you may be in the ivory tower, unfortunately God or luckily – unfortunately God from your point of view, fortunately from our point of view – on a lot of consent in the system. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What is Teamteaching?]] Mr. Tashner has already said that too well. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Go, let me please your stories! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is a very broad agreement and an essential measure. What I find exciting: They keep talking about more money in connection with integration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – On the one hand, we are talking about duty, and on the other hand – and I am missing this from the debate, Mr Strolz, also with you – we need to talk about it: Where is the will for integration of those who come to us? This is a point that has been discussed far too little in recent years, where people who come to us for whatever reason need to be made clear: There must also be the will to integrate. I often miss this one. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gamon: We're talking about children!]] A first step has been taken with this budget, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Due to the conditions, it is certainly not a simple story, but it will still be, of which you can certainly take many more steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43322	Mrs Cox is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43350	Mr President. Mr Fassmann! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! Minister, how am I supposed to say that now? [[Abg. Rosary: Well, that's really such a thing now!]] - How am I supposed to say that? Unfortunately, Mr Rosenkranz, I have not asked you to say something. I'm talking, thank you! [[Congratulations with list Pilz and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Rosary: What do you actually hear from me? What's the point?]] Mr. Faßmann, I'm just trying to do this: In my school career, I learned that the sandwich feedback should be a good kind of feedback. I say straight ahead, the sandwich is well filled, but I start with the positive. I really have to say, I appreciate your constructive type of work in the committees, including your answers not with rhetoric tricks; You just say things. If you don't know anything or want more knowledge, say it straightforward. I very much appreciate it to you. In addition, I really have to say: Hut off, you have a huge venue, and you're seeing that you're a very passionate researcher and scientist, and you're doing very good work as well. It is, however, particularly with regard to education that it is an ideological and emotional very busy area. But you can't blame anyone, because that's about the future of the children. This is about the well-being of our children, which is also about the future of our country, which means, of course, a lot of emotion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] So now I come to the middle part of the sandwich: Last week in the Committee on Budgets, you added to my question about the Innovation Foundation and what happens to the 2 million euros instead of the 50 million euros a year, which focuses on this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lugar.]] [[Abg. Noll: Now hold the...!]] [[Abg. Rosary: But, colleague Noll, equal treatment is already a topic for you, isn't it?]] It was then true that the progressive development of pedagogy is a requirement or a thing that the Innovation Foundation wants to advance. Your answer to this question was that you had a bit of a smile and asked what, please, progressive development was, and then you also told me in the Committee: Okay, progressive education, progressive development, I couldn't even answer that on this point myself. - That came from you. I would now like to explain my page to you and say what I understand by progressive and progressive education: “Progressive” comes from the Latin word “progressio”, that is, progress. Progressive education policy is, in our opinion, a policy that does not rely on equalisation, which promotes individual support for children, but also conveys the skills of the future. This is about social and digital skills, because we are preparing children for a labour market, whose jobs are often not yet available, it is about equal opportunities that the school has to offer – this also has a lot to do with progress. But that also means sharing with other children in the class, which also means progressiveness in the classroom, whereby children learn and accept that everyone has other skills. Unfortunately, I can't see that in the budget. This reduced the means for the integration stopper, preventing children from getting something learned and learning from each other in a common class. Another point of an advanced school I see is that one uses digital means to enable, improve and deepen knowledge transfer. This goes beyond the field of digital basic education. What do we understand about advanced school? – The necessary infrastructure! This is about the fact that more than 50 percent of compulsory schools do not have Wi-Fi access. This cannot be done if we are talking about progressive education policy! That's where you have to put a tooth. Of course, what I would like to see from a progressive education policy is transparency. This would mean, for example, that the hearing, which is estimated, is public, so that journalists and interested people have access to the knowledge shared with us. Progressive education policy: They have also said in the Budget Committee on the reduction in the Innovation Foundation that this is a sum in the post-banking sector. – If it is really sums that are voteable, then I do not understand where the problem lies and why we cut the funds for a foundation if we want to have an educational system that is innovative, which is progressive. That's what it takes now! That's what it takes! I would now like to go to the positive, but I do not think anything about the budget now. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, fit! Sit down!]] [[Abg. Hammer: Talk about the weather!]] However, I am very happy to support you if you have nevertheless been thinking about the progressiveness, thinking and dealing with what this means for you in the field of education. I am convinced that we need a progressive education policy, progressive education and, in general, a progressive policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43482	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43503	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yeah, now I've arrived in the political discourse. [[Abg. Jarolim: Make the microphone a little louder!]] [[Abg. Hammer: That doesn't help you!]] Now I have arrived in the political discourse. – I didn’t actually try to do this in my career career, but it is. I hear things like, I want the division of society that burns society, I'm not interested in the future! – Mr Strolz, all these are, of course, assumptions! I understand that this can be used in the political jargon, but I would still be glad if we could conduct the educational discourse in a way that we also lead it in the committees. I believe that this will achieve more for the matter than with precepts that you are not interested in things. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The 2018 draft budget totals EUR 8 824 million. This is an increase of 368 million euros compared to the current financial framework – the budget will rise again in 2019. This is a total budget increase of 670 million euros for 2018 and 2019. – With that, I say, I am satisfied. Of course you can say you would like more. This can probably be much easier from an opposition position than from the government's waiting, for it could be more and more, but obviously there is something like a total budget responsibility in this place too. The budget will focus on priorities, and that will be the things that have always been discussed and which are always referred to me. These are just as simple things as you could save, like: Increases the number of school students!, which is certainly a nonsense when you stand up for individualization in teaching, or: Increase the teaching obligation of teachers! – I can’t do that, too, because why should a career group work more without wage compensation if others don’t? [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The budget allows me to list the priorities that I am going to list at once, and I believe that this is also a very good development of the education system. Whether you say progressive or moderate about this is a discussion about certain terms. What we can do and what we will do is certainly to provide sufficient resources for the German funding classes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I hear from Sonja Hammerschmid that I had taken a zigzag course in this regard. I do not know, I have always thought that the parliamentary discussion process is also that it is a matter of bringing legislative documents into an opinion process and taking this opinion process seriously, listening, listening sensitively, taking into account the needs and interests of different stakeholders and then coming up with a proposal. If this is now negatively proven with zigzag course, I have, I must say, another idea of a parliamentary process. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: When the ÖVP speaks of parliamentarism! That's ridiculous!]] But I'm telling you: Listening will continue to belong to my style, even if I get negative criticism for it. I would like to say the following: Mr Strolz, of course I also know that the basic question of integration will not be solved with the German funding classes and with the subsequent German funding courses. I was also very pleased that you have taken over the concept I have repeatedly promoted: Integration is a process, a process that does not know an exact end date, because integration always presents itself as a new challenge to society. I am pleased that the presentation of the integration process, which I have formulated in this way, has also been taken over by you. It's clear that's what it's all about. That's a measure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] We will install this measure, we will implement it, we will see how target-oriented it is, and you will re-adjust it when you see that it may work less well. I'll be glad if she works well. Be sure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Strolz! But one thing has already surprised me, because I also thought you were an attentive reader of the budget drafts: The 15a agreement on language early promotion is very important, d’accord. We must certainly start in kindergarten so that we can perhaps save ourselves the German problems when passing from kindergarten to public school. Language early funding is budgeted, but it is budgeted where, if you want to, it can also belong to competence, namely the Ministry of Integration. But there is the agreement with the Ministry of Integration that my house will negotiate the 15a agreements and also use the relevant resources. So take note of the following: There is money for early language support. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr Strolz! You can now accuse me of my openness in answering the questions in the Committee on Budgets regarding teacher training, but then you would have to go on and say that I also said that there is, of course, much more available for teacher education as a whole. I remind you: We have educational universities, and the educational universities are ex-legislatively responsible for teacher education and further education. If you look into the UG 30 now, you see: The educational universities are budgeted with a gross order of over 230 million per year. [[Abg. Stroll: Digitalization!]] [[Abg. Steinacker: (in the direction of Abg. Stroll) That's also the only thing that remains, otherwise nothing was to be found!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Painful!]] Where is your accusation that no teacher education could take place with 230 million? I also have to say something about this educational innovation foundation, which is a very good construction. I am not adorned here with foreign feathers, the educational innovation foundation has been decided in the old or other or previous coalition government. We have pushed out the filling frame, the filling time, but the innovation foundation itself remains complete from its goal and from its construction as well as an instrument – if you want to do so – to bring in more money on sub-stimulations. [[Abg. Strolz: Minister, you cut the budget by 96 percent! That's a balding! It's ridiculous to say that's great, after such a reduction!]] Mr Strolz! What I have already said to you in the Committee, and that is the decisive thing, is that we have so many different educational promotions and so many different small pots for educational innovation promotion. The FWF can do something. We have the educational universities I have listed to you. We have academic faculties at the universities. Everybody's doing something. I have told you that we will bring this together more closely so that we can make a clear picture in the field of educational research. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, what's significant is what you don't mention. They do not say, for example, that it is very plausible, that it is very reasonable – also in the sense of integration – that the re-enactment of compulsory education and basic education is still budgeted at 18 million euros. This is an essential matter, because it is precisely the repetition of primary and compulsory education that affects a lot of people, because they come and often do not have a degree in education. So, integration continues, even if the pot does not necessarily involve integration. That is, I think, an essential thing. We have also continued the project Teaching with Matura and estimated 25 million euros for this. This is an essential thing, a good thing, so that dual training can gain attractiveness and make those who have chosen dual training easier and financially supported Matura. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, we provide extensive financial resources to further finance school development, school renovation and renovation. Schools also live on how they are accommodated, and there are very clear priorities in our budget. I am very sure that with this double budget 2018/2019 we can continue to develop Austrian schools, continue to provide them with a very good framework and ultimately tackle important changes. I do not want to approach the banality, but of course it is clear that we are doing something like future shaping in this country about school and the education of the next generation. This is a general political place to which I still call myself, because it is a very important one. It is also clear, however, that we must put in place reform measures within the budget and within the House. We also need to carry out a critical expenditure reflection in order to know where we can create further scope for action. But overall – and if you look at the facts, you have to say that – the UG is one of the winners' UGs in terms of the budgetary increase. I can therefore only recommend that you agree with the calm conscience of the UG 30. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43683	I may announce that by five Members according to § 33 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure request that a brief debate be held on the request of Members Krainer, Dr. Krisper and Zadić to set up an investigative committee on "political influence on the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism". The request is sufficiently supported, and the debate on it takes place after the agenda has been completed. We continue in the speaker list: I call Mr Marchetti. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43710	Mr President. Mr. Minister! It is not only Mr Fässmann's first budget debate, it is also the first budget debate for me. The whole thing reminds me a little of my favorite series “Columbo”. At the beginning you already know how it works, and you still look at it for an hour. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] Now I propose to the opposition representative that they know already since Monday that they will reject the budget. Nevertheless, I am idealist enough to try to convince them of the opposite. I think the education and science budget is a very good opportunity for this. I am particularly proud, for example, of the increase in study aid. [[Abg. Hammerschmid: Who raised it?]] We give more funding to students who could not study without financial support 109 million euros. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lindner: (on Abg. Hammerschmid clearly) There she sits, you can thank yourself!]] By the way, this is an increase of more than half. This means increasing the average study aid per person from EUR 5 000 to EUR 6 000. [[Abg. Vogl: But that was not you, you were only by chance there!]] Not only that, we also make it easier for more students to benefit from this study grant. Let us follow this important social measure to the educational budget. By 2022, 670 million euros will be invested more in education. Mr Strolz, do you know how much gulash that would be? - I think more than enough. That is why, I believe, we can also talk about closing this educational gap that has been addressed. Not only that, there are also scopes for action that become free. I only mention the teaching with Matura – there is more than 25 million euros – but also the German funding classes as an example. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haider.]] As a speaker for my group's students, I would also like to get rid of the German funding classes: It's by far the most unsocial thing you can do if you put students, without them ruling the language of education, in regular schooling. That's what's frustrating her. Even the most motivated students are so frustrated, and we can't leave it that way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Right!]] In Vienna alone, 35 percent of students in the first class are extraordinary pupils. That is, they are not able to speak the language enough. 35 percent! These are students who have already completed the compulsory kindergarten year before. That means if they can't already be German half-way afterwards, then something must be wrong on the system in principle. We should really fix this abuse better today than tomorrow, and this model is the solution. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The Minister said: The opposition speaks of a zigzag course. Excuse me, do we, as Parliament, actually take ourselves seriously? [[Abg. Noll: That's what the ÖVP is asking?]] We give tips here, there is a review phase, there are many things that will then be implemented. ==References====External links== In October we were elected, namely that we cooperate constructively and meaningfully and not so polemically agitate. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Nico, you don't believe that yourself!]] This is also my serious offer to the city of Vienna. It's not about red-green against black-blue, but it's about the future of our children, and I'm telling you: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] When you open your fist, we're ready to talk! We want to solve this together in the interests of the children in our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I'll get you together. 670 million euros more for education. 420 million euros more for science. I think the message is understandable: This area is clearly a focus of the Federal Government. I am careful with superlatives, but we as the National Council will today decide on this budget, this largest science budget of all time. [[Abg. Jarolim: What else does that look like?]] You can decide whether you just want to be there or whether you want to be part of it. That's why it's happening today. I'll definitely be 19. Paint very boldly in the calendar on April 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43879	Mrs Kuntzl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e43900	Ladies and gentlemen! In the science budget there are indeed some encouraging developments to note: On the one hand, there will be significantly more funding for universities in the coming years, and on the other hand, there will be significantly more funding for the promotion of studies. [[Abg. Duzdar: That was the SPÖ!]] These are decisions we made before the elections. As far as the funding of studies is concerned, we have been pressing for many, many years for decisive steps to be taken, because it is important that young people who have appropriate skills and talents can study well, even if their parents do not have a thick wallet. This support is therefore particularly important. I can only say to my previous speaker: Decorate Please don't go with strange feathers! On this decision, which we were able to take before the elections, we really have to bear the EIAs. We are very glad that we succeeded, but it was not easy to bring them to it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strasser: You didn't seem to be there!]] The second important decision, namely that universities in Austria will have more resources available in the next few years, which they urgently need, has even been taken against the votes of the ÖVP. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are now benefiting from this decision. I think that's how you see it. [[Abg. Strasser: The decision was not complete, Mrs Colleague!]] Over 1 billion euros will be allocated to the Austrian universities in the coming years. That's a good thing in itself. We have decided to do so with the task of using these funds to improve care in the studies, which are particularly requested. These studies are not by chance particularly in demand, but because the young people expect good training and good career opportunities from them. But what are you doing? – You take these funds for universities, but at the same time you decide a law that will result in 20 000 beginners’ places less at the Austrian universities in the next three years. That was, ladies and gentlemen, no sense of the matter at all. The point would be to expand the opportunities of young people and not to shorten them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These 20,000 places are only the beginning. They have also introduced a mechanism in the law that will bring about a domino effect. There is the possibility to reduce the number of places in further studies. In other words, in the next few years – you have set the course for it – we will have significantly fewer places for beginners at the universities; that means 20,000 young people who want to study who are capable of having the appropriate talents but who cannot begin. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Taschner]] Did you create compensation for that? Have you provided good places elsewhere, for example at the colleges? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Little: Yes, in Wels!]] That's what you're talking about, there's gonna be 450 more places in the next few years. These 450 additional places are also not new, which are based on a 2017 decision, which is now budgeted. That means: They delete 20,000 places – for the first time – at the universities and create 450 places at the technical universities. In other words, we will have to expect young people to be on the streets in the future, to be unemployed and to ensure that they are narrowed on the labour market. [[Abg. Strasser: That increases the graduates!]] [[Abg. Tashner: Incorrect account!]] [[Abg. Jarolim: Super Politics!]] This saving, this reduction of opportunities from young people have you to answer. That's absolutely not in our sense. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zinggl.]] Mr. Federal Minister! You now have the responsibility in your home for elementary education – education for the little ones, which is particularly important – the schools and the sciences. In the field of elementary education, the kindergartens, put the budget for 2019 de facto on zero: no expansion, no improvement in education for the little ones, where it is particularly important. In schools, cut down where important support is needed for the children and create a framework that does not solve the problems, at the universities you reduce the number of places – which means fewer opportunities for young people to have a good education. Ladies and gentlemen! It is obviously particularly important to you that the 66 million euros of play money are secured for the gentlemen' shorts and lines so that they can better sit in the scene. [[Abg. Rädler: Your recipe?]] It would be important to take the money and provide better opportunities for children and young people in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44074	Mr Kassager has been mentioned on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44095	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Kuntzl! I have, of course, prepared a speech, but I would like to repeat briefly what you have said. They said good things: They have said that there are gratifying developments in the field of science and universities. You have said that there is much more resources at your disposal, you mentioned more than EUR 1 billion in the next few years. They also pointed out that this had already been decided before the elections. I would just like to remind you who decided to do so, namely the SPÖ, the FPÖ and the Greens – just to hold it. [[Abg. Kuntzl: But completely!]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: Do you also say who not?! Who's not?]] - Yeah, that's what it's all about. You can add that. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The FPÖ has decided to do so and is now putting it into government responsibility with the Federal Minister in so far as it is gratifying that we have more resources, but we already have to look at how we use these funds efficiently and effectively – and we are doing so. You know, we've just passed the University Finance Act. The goal of this federal government is therefore of course to get rid of a principle of foundry which has been in some areas – so to speak: we now put a lot of money into the system, although we know where it is going, but only about, and above all, we do not know what the output is. So we're on it now. This is, of course, a process that does not go from today to tomorrow, but the first steps are just taken with the University Finance Act. We are now also intensive in negotiating the corresponding regulation. The aim is – and we are now at the opportunity, Mrs Kuntzl: We see the point of increasing opportunities for our students, something else. We believe that we are very much increasing the opportunities of those who want to study that are able to do so, by making many courses of study available at universities again by creating reasonable relationships of care by avoiding the situation that students simply have to wait for a laboratory place for six months by avoiding absurd situations such as those that students have a certain number of points at their disposal and then, so to speak, points for courses, for seminars. – That's casino mentality. We don't want to do that. We do not want a casino, but we want planning, for the students, but also for the universities and also for politics, in which case for the responsible Federal Ministry. There are precisely certain frameworks and foundations that increase this planningability, and certain desires that do not increase this planningability, but rather reduce it by simply saying that in the system we are pouring in so much money, but what happens to it really does not matter to us. By the way, I do not know where you have the number 20,000. [[Abg. Kuntzl: From the documents of the Ministry!]] - I didn't read it. [[Abg. Look!]] [[Oh-run of the Abg. Jarolim.]] So I may have missed something, but we can still explain this bilaterally. I would like to ask you one question, this number 20 000. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In any case, we make the studies at the universities more studyable – that is good – both for students and for our researchers as well as for the Republic. We use much more money. The colleague pointed out earlier: This is the highest university budget in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why the budget debate is going on here: What is a budget or what is politics? – The reason for the general principle is that: What do we take away from people about taxes, taxes et cetera and what do we spend on it? There are quite different positions within the political parties. The Freedom Party, together with its coalition partner ÖVP, has decided to spend a lot of money on security, a lot of money on education, a lot of money for science and research, to use it efficiently and effectively, but less money or no money at all – and I am now looking at the Minister of Finance – for so, I say to issue socialist economic measures such as an employment bonus in times of high-economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44197	I can welcome the students of the Camillo Sitte Lecture Centre to our gallery. [[General condolences.]] The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44227	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of Science! Science and research in Austria always produces exceptional talents and exceptional benefits, but I believe we all agree that this is not the case because of the good conditions, but despite the bad conditions that have prevailed in recent years – in all circumstances. This is a huge achievement that our top researchers always do here. At this point we also need to thank the former Minister of Science Reinhold Mitterlehner. At that time, he took advantage of his role, also in combination as Vice-Cchancist, in order to provide science and research with a service in order to make possible these reforms, which we have already decided in this new period, at all. So thanks to Reinhold Mitterlehner believes that science and research can now continue to work with a relatively good budget. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] – Yes, dear ÖVP, you may clap too. That was one of yours. Yeah, the colleges have more money now. I do not want to go through the history of this increase in the budget again. With regard to how we got more money, there's a little bit of history. [[Abg. Shroud: History sluttering! Absolutely!]] The status quo so far were stagnating budgets and increasing student numbers. This leads to bad conditions, and this is especially true of students who have no social restraint, who do not come from academic families especially hard. They are all the more difficult with poor study conditions at the universities. Whether the nearly 350 million euros a year will move more insanely, I am not so sure, because we also know that many Unis have problems with fast up-to-top student numbers. Take the Boku in Vienna, for example! It's a successful university. There are also many people who want to go to study. We know that there's a budget increase – and that sounds hard now, because of course it's about a lot of money – maybe almost in the next few years, because there's such a need for recovery. If we compare ourselves with Switzerland, where there are half as many students, it is to be said that there are almost twice as high public funds for the universities. That's a huge difference, and you can't do that with this increase, even if it's a lot of money, again. One thing is clear: We have a real historical – or historical – situation in Austria – opportunity to develop the science and research sector and make it fit for the future. This is also a reason why the steps towards the funding of study places were so important. But it is also okay to be a little skeptical whether we can take advantage of this opportunity accordingly. This scepticism comes not only from experience in this field, but of course the scepticism also comes from the fact that the science budget is not only intended for the universities. There are also technical colleges, and there is also the FWF. These are two areas which have been barely neglected in this budget. Example technical colleges: We agree that this sector has developed wonderfully in recent years. We also know that we need an extension of the technical colleges, but already the previous government has not complied in the same way with the expansion of these places as was actually planned. That is, we are already in arrears, and now the modest level is being rewritten. Moreover, of course, very successful, research-intensive colleges still have a competitive disadvantage in terms of research resources. Then there is the topic of basic research and FWF. Basic research is always relatively difficult to sell politically, I would say now. You give money in and you don't know what comes out. But that is the meaning and purpose of it. I believe that we are also responsible for bringing back more and more examples of the researchers at Portsmouth University, who accidentally found a bacterium that can eat plastic bottles. This may be the first step in getting hold of the global plastic problem, and that has been the result of basic research. All over the media it has been said that they happened by chance. Well, just theoretically, they've come up with it by chance, but that's also because there was always enough money to increase the chance of coming to these random, great insights. This is the effect of basic research. The FWF was promised to increase to 290 million euros by means of a gradual budget increase in 2021. In the present double budget, we still crawl around about 200 million, not the same, 200 million, 290 million, we're not quite there yet. This, of course, means that the FWF's allocation rates have fallen below 20 percent, and for many young researchers who apply for funds, this is almost like arbitrariness. There you can submit such a good project, the chance that it will be rejected is quite large – or as Mr. Kassinger would say, Casino. This can, of course, be disappointing for young researchers. That is why I would also like to make the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[10:11]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44330	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Kaufmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44354	Mr President. Minister of Education and Science! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear guests on the gallery and especially in front of the screens! Today we are discussing the issue of education and science, a subject that has actually led me to political engagement. At the time, at the age of 15, I wanted to change a lot in our education system – there were always many obstacles. With this budget and with these measures, which the Minister has already partly outlined to us today, we are able to bring about a change in our education system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] As spokesperson of the ÖVP for vocational training and teaching, I would first like to say a few words on this area. In international comparison, we have many opportunities for our young Austrians in this form of training. We are proud of them, we have world champions in these teaching professions. We have good, well-trained young people. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kassinger.]] However, we face the following challenge – these are figures from January –: There are 20 000 open apprenticeships and only 10,000 job seekers. We've got to get up there! I can only consider what they want to do, whether they will continue to go to school or learn a profession in autumn: Look at the entire width of the 200 teaching professions we have in Austria! If you take the course of vocational training, you will have a good future perspective. I would also like to address this appeal to the parents. There are really good opportunities – it has already been addressed today – we will also invest in the field of vocational schools. There will be 17 million euros in addition to teaching lessons for teachers in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition – and this also speaks for the permeability of our system – there is the possibility to do the Matura during the teaching as well. This too will continue, as more resources will be made available. I would like to move to another area, to the universities. This is where we are able with the university budget to create 500 additional professor posts, which can help to ensure that young people are able to work together. This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to this problem. We are thus creating a care relationship that is far lower than the previous one. This enables us to greatly improve the quality of our universities as well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I am also pleased that we offer a perspective to young people who are interested in research and who are seeing their careers in this field at the university; we are doing this with this budget. [[New condolences with the ÖVP and with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say something that is particularly important to me: With these additional positions at the universities, we can also offer young researchers a future perspective in the most diverse areas. With this educational mix from teaching to university, Austria is well positioned for the future. So we agree to this budget together today.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44435	Mr Noll is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44457	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! Yes, here the sun of increased resources in the field of science is shining; as an oppositionist, I say that is good, we are in favour of it, and that is an important and very important step for the future. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But if you take a look at the landscape that this sun will hide, you can see that the majority fractions here are projecting – or have done it in part – to plant some autocratic trees that are able to train quite anti-democratic impulses. [[Abg. Rädler: We're not on the list of mushrooms!]] Mr Rädler, you are certainly not with us, you will not come to us either. [[Abg. Loacker: But he would fit!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the list of mushrooms.]] These anti-democratic trees are hidden, for example, where the so-called opportunity Hiring is concerned. Opportunity Hiring does not just mean that, but there is the desire of the government to give up calls once again, as with the Secretary-General, and in the explanations this is justified by the fact that the new professors elected by the rectors without appeal procedures can be named without appeal procedures because of the urgency of time. What this results is foreseeable: Professors who, of course, confuse the hierarchy in the institutes and the faculties who have a certain preferred position, which could then also lead the rector to lead to re-election by ordering such professors on the advice of university councils who are politically appointed. However, the regulation according to § 12 para. is much more problematic. 7 in the UG. They know that for the first time there is the talk of so-called competitive indicators, with the question of what these competitive indicators are only clear in the regulation, although the explanations here illustrate certain ideas; but what that will be then is only in the hands of the Minister and no longer in the hands of universities. This is, of course, an autocratic move against university autonomy. Last point – Mr Gamon has referred to it –: The fact that the budget for the FWF does not amount to the promised EUR 280 to 290 million is a very significant defeat. This is not only the appeal of the opposition, which then sounds here, I think it does quite well for the House to take back the words of Professor Huck, who is after all the president of the Austrian Neuroscience Association and one of the outstanding scientists in this country, who illustrated this subdoing of the FWF with very remarkable and, I believe, also vocal words: “He who does not understand how to promote and shape knowledge and curiosity wisely has lost in the globalized and digitalized world.” That's exactly what the FWF underdo. Here would be quick and quick to retrofit; I hope you do.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44519	Mr Schandor is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44540	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Minister of Education! Mr State Secretary! High house! Appreciated spectators at the visitor gallery! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the televisions! School is next to the parent house of the area that decides on a successful life. Which parent house a child is born into is a coincidence. However, the education it receives must not depend on the accident and not on the financial possibilities of the parents' home. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is our obligation to guarantee the best possible offer to all children and young people in the best possible system. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not an outsourced money, but an investment in the future of our country. The 400 million euros estimated for this are a good investment in the future of our children. Thus – we have already heard this today – about 17 million euros will be invested in vocational schools, and thus the teaching will be upgraded. 36 million euros are spent in adult education, taking into account lifelong learning. We strengthen the teaching through more permeability and modern training, but also those who seek such training. These include priority education in the field of new secondary schools, Mint projects, the promotion of training associations for the joint training of apprentices by several firms, the establishment of apprenticeship training according to the matura, the integration of the national quality framework in master and qualification examinations – thus ensuring better connectivity in the tertiary education sector – as well as the further development of vocational higher schools and the HTLs in coordination with the needs of industry and industry. – This leads to a further development of the school profile, to an adaptation of curriculums, to a strengthening of cooperation, and to this need dedicated, technical and professionally well-trained educators and educators. In order to ensure that the needs of skilled workers are met, we want to strengthen the training of occupational apprentices, with the teaching objectives in the field of training geared to the needs. The importance of skilled workers' training must be raised. Ascent opportunities are increasingly dependent on additional qualifications, which should be a motivation for lifelong learning. Ladies and gentlemen! A modern education system must take into account differentiated requirements with a differentiated range of school types and school forms, since each student has different talents and gifts and needs different funding. I see this daily in my job as a teacher at the HTL Principal Field. This requires appropriate class sizes and group sizes – I am now thinking of the workshop – in all schools and school types. This requires training facilities to promote intellectual and social learning, but it also requires high-quality, committed colleagues and colleagues and fair working hours. In order to ensure equal opportunities and to address social disadvantages, all of this must be free of charge for the parents' home from the very beginning – that is the decisive one. The Federal Government is committed to this. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44591	Mrs Feichtinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44613	Mr President. Dear ones present on the government bank! High house! Dear Seers! Our schools not only have a decisive influence on the professional opportunities our children have, they also shape the first look that young people have on our country and our society, and how they define themselves and their role in it. They ensure that they feel comfortable and become part of our society, that they learn to contribute and actively participate in society, that no one loses the connection and feels excluded from childhood, but that they learn that Austria is an inclusive and strong community, where one keeps together and helps one another. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For this, we need schools that convey precisely these values to children and young people, and which are given the means and, above all, the opportunity to respond to individual needs as best as possible, regardless of the educational standards of the parents, regardless of the social environment from which they come, regardless of the special educational needs of them. To this end, it is important and absolutely necessary, Minister, that we strengthen the new secondary schools, that we advance the team teaching, that we keep the top level of class schooling low, and that, above all, we finally implement the opportunity index and use the resources there specifically. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Minister, you yourself have said that the opportunity index is very kind to you. Please put it in place! Our support is yours. Minister Fässmann! Your budget has been strongly discussed over the last few weeks, and there have been doubts as to whether you continue to have funds for secondary schools and to use this money accordingly. In the Committee last week, you once again assured that you will not increase the number of students in the classes and that you will not reduce the team teaching hours. – In this respect, we will definitely take you by the word! The same applies, of course, to those including education. In this context, we will simply ensure that the model regions are financed accordingly and, of course, expanded. We'll take a look at it. that this is happening and that the secondary schools and model regions really receive the resources they need for their important work. Finally, I would like to say a warm thank you to all my colleagues from my side for their daily commitment to schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44673	Mr Nehammer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44694	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mrs Feichtinger said something very important and right: School shapes society. School shapes the young people. If we look around in the country and look at the agglomerations, we know and we see that we have a very massive migration pressure in the cities. We have situations in Vienna, Linz, Graz – right Murufer – or Wels, where the migration pressure at the schools becomes visible and noticeable to teachers. From this point of view, a great thank you for the use of the educators; these do excellent work in our schools! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] This migration pressure leads to our having classes of schools in which up to 90 percent of children do not have German as a native language or even as a language of use. This is a huge challenge, because it takes the children equal opportunities. That's why my appeal to the SPÖ: Get out of the ideological dead end to take the step to support the German funding classes, because the German funding classes give our children a chance! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why do I now have to address the SPÖ in particular? – The red-green Vienna refuses this discussion. In comparison, an example: In Wiener Neustadt there is Klaus Schneeberger Mayor, and there is a folk school in which 90 percent of children do not speak German in a class. There the initiative was taken, a German class was set up, and the particular thing about the system is: Already after three months, more than 70 percent of children have made progress, which is 70 percent more equal opportunities for migrant children! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] The school is shaped by how we have just learned together, society. There is much to do in school, because there society lives with all its challenges. Therefore also from this point of view, the offer to the opposition: Do not strike out our outstretched hand when it comes to applying the headcloth ban for children! It will be necessary and right to ensure that there is equal opportunities between children in kindergarten and in folk school. If one has been following the oppressive reports of recent times – only now again on the front page of a large daily newspaper – one sees the challenges we face in terms of integration, for example in the area of political Islam, how important education is and how important it is to provide the necessary resources as well. – I invite you to go this way together and take care of a good school in this country! Mr Fässmann, thank you for your commitment to a school that allows for integration, for a school that builds up something that is important to our country, namely a common relationship, because we do not want to have a society of one another and not a society of one another!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44764	Mr Kovacevic is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44785	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the screens! Minister! For the education budget in general: Yes, it is true, a moderate increase is planned, but the cost of the educational budget is also increasing annually. Most of the budget in any case concerns staff costs that rise annually, and therefore there is not really any more money for educational measures effectively. I would now like to return to the topic of German funding classes: There are various scientific studies that prove that a separation between language learning and professional learning makes language learning more difficult. That means that the model is not really helpful, but that the children learn German faster and better when they are not separated. With this in mind, I would like to ask myself the question: Why don't you trust these expert opinions? Why don't you trust these professionals? Self-proclaimed experts, of which there are obviously many, believe that they can better appreciate this topic than the experts who are very intensive in dealing with this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Nehammer: You always have to pay attention to the share!]] I'll tell you: I also know the subject very well from practice. Many years ago in Tyrol we tried to introduce language starters classes, including in my hometown, and in practice many concerned parents came to us and said: Please don't put our children in alien classes! Then how will they ever integrate themselves? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, it is also interesting that criticism not only comes from the left ideological side. I say now, because I have heard several times the assumption that this is about an ideological discussion: That's far from me! It is interesting that criticism of this project has also come from many federal states led by the ÖVP. I have here, for example, the opinion of the Tyrolean state government: It's not exactly positive! The Tirol Council of State Schools is also concerned and has expressed very critical views on this issue. He says that this process is very segregated and students are largely excluded from participating in technical education. – Please plug So you don't always have certain topics in drawers, or you don't reduce them to the ideology debate! Now we have seen a weakening. Mr. Minister, you have now speculated the model a little on this German-class light version. But this is really particularly bad, because the means of the integration stop were initially shortened and then deleted with the argument that you have the German funding classes. However, these are now also greatly reduced or reduced, and therefore the means are actually missing twice: The German funding classes are only implemented minimalistly, and in the general classes there are also fewer resources available in the final effect. Ladies and gentlemen! So this is a double deterioration, and that is the real dilemma. The result will be that in 20 years you will still wonder why living integration in our society does not work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44840	Mr Hauser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e44861	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! High house! Mr Fässmann, you have indeed not taken on a slight heritage! That is why I am surprised that your predecessor is able to make himself here today and make certain findings! This morning we heard how bad we are in digitization. Mrs Exminister, this is a perfect self-reliance! We are at work for four months, and we have to wager the many failures of the SPÖ-led Ministry of Education over the last ten years! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] You can't make yourself here today and complain convincingly about all that you haven't done in the past! That's not a good opposition policy! I found this last night: You have to be in opposition too! You can't do that yet! [[Abg. Kuntzl: You must also be able to rule!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Mrs. Colleague! You can't do both!]] It's true that we've been on our way, and if you get on the way, you have to ask yourself: How does the status quo look? – The status quo is not intoxicating! The last Pisa results were terrifying; in the field of science minus eleven points, in the 20th place among 38 OECD states. [[Abg. Rosary: Who was the Minister?]] The area of reading is also a disaster: We were significantly below OECD snow, place 25 out of 38. You know: A third of our students cannot read and write meaningfully and also have the highest deficits in calculating. – This is the status quo that we have acquired after ten years of socialist education policy: That's terrifying! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Thank you, SPÖ!]] The rate of risk students unable to follow education has increased significantly. On the other hand, the share of top-level students has fallen below the OECD average over the last ten years: Ten years ago, 20 percent of our students had top school, after ten years of socialist education, this quota fell to 15 percent; it is 16 percent in the OECD section. So you see: In all areas, our education system is not even an average. But you're making yourself up here and saying what we're doing bad! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gudenus.]] Again: We worked 120 days. We've been on our way. It is incredibly much to do, and we take the responsibility seriously. Minister, I have confidence in you. I'm not the one who notices today and here that you don't want the best for our children and for our students. That is what you want, and we will support you, and we will also ensure that what was good is preserved. What did you do? – You questioned the differentiated school system. They wanted to abolish secondary school classes. They wanted to replace what works. That's the wrong way! We know from the Court of Auditors that the gymnasium is the school form that works that it is also the cheapest school form. According to the Court of Auditors figures, the cost of the gymnasium is EUR 4 700 per student and EUR 7 200 per student in the New Secondary School. – So that was the wrong way! We will, of course, support our gymnasia because they work and because there was really good work done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has been striking in the last ten years? – The aid costs have exploded, although more and more money has been invested in our schools. Our parents have to spend far more than 100 million euros in order to compensate for lack of education outside school. Many cannot afford to do so. This is a testimonie for our school! At the same time, private schools were booming. In this context, I can quote the scientist Paul Liessmann, who has found the following – I quote – to the private schools: “When political leaders propagate the entire school, but send their own children to the Catholic private school, you know what’s going on.” [[Abg. Rosary: Right, that's it!]] I can only underline this statement. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction SPÖ) There's everything quiet over there again!]] It is high time that we finally eliminate these educational deficits, the lack of or non-existent language skills at the time of entry into school. That was what we, as a Freedom Party, have called for over years: German before entering school! For this we were beaten by you, for this right approach we were beaten for years. [[Abg. Kuntzl: They were not beaten at all!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We are for nonviolent education!]] [[Abg. Rosary: But we are not for their free education!]] You know, I'm a teacher in the main profession, and I've also been a teacher for years. For me it was and is unimaginable to teach children who cannot follow the lessons. This is unthinkable and, by the way, highly discriminatory, because all the other students, who can do German as far as the goal of teaching is concerned, also remain. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP]] This system is unfair. It is high time we set up German funding classes, which finally create the conditions for the education to be followed at all. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is the right way, that is the right approach, and I am glad that this liberal idea under the new government is finally being implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45063	Mr Bacher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45084	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Mr Hauser, one must also be able to rule – you cannot! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: You couldn't do it either!]] [[Abg. Rosary: But we can do this in contrast to you!]] The topic of digitalization is a good keyword, because digitization is part of our lives and is of enormous importance for the future of our country. Accordingly, it is also important to invest in this area. Why? – Because the children, young people and young adults will bear and shape the future of our country. They are confronted with digital technologies in all areas of life, but are often left alone. While young people are usually very familiar with the new technologies, in order to be able to program in order to actually understand and use the digital craftsmanship accordingly, it is more of a well-founded knowledge of small. [[Abg. Rosary: reading, computing, writing!]] To be able to properly group a digital content, a careful handling of sensitive data, an equally careful and respectful handling of data from others, these are the cornerstones that young people need to learn as part of the formation of small. [[Abg. Rosary: The one-time, the alphabet!]] That is why I asked you, Federal Minister, how high the financial resources in 2018/2019 are for the expansion of digitalization in teaching at Austrian schools. – The answer from you that only for federal schools, AHS, BMS, BHS, budgets are estimated for investments in this area is somewhat annoying. This does not speak for a holistic education concept, after all, the government has recently said quite proudly that the entire education, including elementary education, is now summarized in a Ministry of Education, including kindergartens. Do you think digital education is necessary only for students 14 or 15 years old, because only in secondary and higher schools have budgeted for it? [[Abg. Belakovich: In kindergarten?]] There is no budget for digital education for vocational schools. According to your answer, you are not responsible, but even if you share the funding for vocational schools with the countries, the education order is definitely to search with you. What about adult education in this area? . No provision has been made for this in the budget either. School 4.0, the digitalisation strategy developed during the previous legislative period, aims at basic digital education from the primary school, digital competent educators, infrastructure and IT equipment and digital learning tools. Of course, we need a budget for this, and that is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[10:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45244	The application is properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. We come to the next speaker: Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45268	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bacher, digitization is not everything! I would also like to give a hint to the previous speakers of the opposition: The communication of knowledge nevertheless takes place in a large style by our educators and educators. The illiteracy of our school system and our educators is really something that a teacher does not want to hear, because, as I said, there is a lot of information and personal commitment is beyond the normal level; they have not deserved it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Today we are deciding a large budget, a double budget, of EUR 8.8 billion, which has experienced an increase of EUR 670 million, and that is a good thing. In 2019, we will be able to balance the budget for the first time – and still invest- We look to the future of our generations in the field of digitalization, security, but above all in the field of education and science! I think that we owe it to our young generation, and I can say that we are on a very, very good road. We also invest in school construction; 540 million euros, which is a big budget. Above all, the AHS, which have probably been treated a bit stepmotherly due to ideological circumstances in recent years, can be pleased that it is now being reinvested in school construction; the new secondary schools can also be delighted. I am already aware that there are very good schools, especially in rural areas, in particular, but I am also aware of the problems in the urban area, so I am all the more pleased that we can set up the German funding classes. It's logical: Those who do not understand the language cannot follow the teaching. It is therefore a logical need for us to create these, and I congratulate our Federal Minister for this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to make another point, namely that our Federal Minister could also achieve something in the special schools. We know that the integration classes were school attempts, which have been very well established, but we must, as the Court of Auditors said, return the number of school tests. I am glad that our Federal Minister, with the respective experts in the individual countries, has come up with talks about how we can best integrate these integration classes into the regular school system. That would be the best solution, and I think we are also on a very, very good path. Finally, thank you again to our educators for the work they have done. They form our next generation and they make a big contribution to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45322	The next item is Mrs Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45344	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Ladies and gentlemen! After more than 15 years of work in medical research, of which for ten years at a large university in Austria, I know – and this is what all scientists in this country know – that research funding here does not cover the real need in the field of research at Weitem, that is, really at Weitem. I left Austria in 2007, because I was scientifically active abroad, and now, 11 years later, I have to say, with regret, that there has been very little improvement in this area. All of your predecessors, Mr. Fässmann, all of them Minister of Science of the ÖVP, have more or less failed to ensure that research funding in Austria continues with the increase – and it is an increase – of the scientific excellence of this country. To prove this, it is enough to see the FWF funding budget – it has already been discussed today – as the most important funding institution for basic research. The planned annual budget is 224 million euros in 2021. I am sure you know exactly how much, for example, is available to the Swiss FWF-pendant on funding for research funding. The Swiss National Fund makes 800 million euros available for this – the fourfold, although Switzerland, as regards the population, is similar to Austria and is comparable to us in terms of the university landscape. Mr. Federal Minister, you also know that top research is the key to the prosperity in Austria and also ensures that it is also secure for the future and that the societal challenges of tomorrow can be overcome better. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] Mr. Fäsmann, because you spent decades in the academic world very active and committed, I would have expected – and I am not alone – that the whole of science is behind me, especially from you as almost colleagues in basic research funding. Unfortunately, this turn has not occurred. The budget, as it is now on the table, does not take into account the real needs of research in Austria – and you know it better than I do because you worked there much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45392	Mrs Povysil is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45413	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House, in the gallery and in the various media! Austria was once regarded as a technology skeptical and as an antiscientist in the European comparison. As I took from a survey by the Austrian Press Agency, a certain trend is now to be seen: Nine out of ten Austrians say that science and research continue Austria, seven out of ten say this is in the health field, which is particularly important in medicine. Investment in science and research should be increased, both from the state and from businesses, and cooperation between science and industry should be strengthened. Let me present a statement by an American scientist who teaches at the University of Wisconsin, in New York and Oxford. She says: “If you think research is expensive, try disease!” In other words: If we succeed in preventing diseases or solving problems through research, this will not only bring immensely less suffering to the patient, but also, of course, a significant cost savings. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let's just take the example of childhood cancer research: There are children who are healed by cancer but then suffer a second time. With new biotechnologies it is now possible to stop this second disease, and this also has advantages. The children will be healthy, survive, and we will save ourselves massive costs. Austria has a very good position in oncological research, i.e. in cancer research, but structural changes are necessary so that Austria remains competitive in this field. To this end, national and international research networks, financial resources and, as an important approach, the promotion of young people are increasingly required. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Cuckoo.]] Let us stick to this issue! It is essential to motivate young colleagues to research and above all to give them one thing: Time. Research is never an immediate success, research means continuing interest and sustainability, and research has to become a clearly defined part of medical work – and not a hobby – in the minds of those responsible, even the universities, the clinics, the university clinics. The government - according to the people - has the strategic decision that science and research have a high value and thus also constitute a budgetary focus. In the fields of science and research, the budget increases by EUR 490 million compared to the previous year's estimates, while the universities receive EUR 11 billion, which is 13 percent more than before. Ladies and gentlemen! We all – you, I – have basically only two wishes: growing old and staying young. We are getting a little closer to these wishes in small steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45471	I welcome the students of the HTL Rennweg, who have just arrived at our gallery. [[General condolences.]] Mr Fässmann is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45501	Mr President. High house! I spoke once again because some of the speeches affected the UG 31. My predecessor has meritfully pointed out the key facts of this budget. We have a plus of 9.5 percent in the UG 31 area in total, we have a plus of 13 percent at universities. The universities have reached a historic peak in their budget. So if you can't be optimistic, I don't know what numbers have to be presented. I agree with Mrs Gamon's opinion, which, I believe, is still in the hall, saying: [[in the direction of NEOS seats]] Yes, this is a historic opportunity for these universities, and universities must also take advantage of this historic opportunity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] From many years of experience with universities I know that this is not a self-trailer. My house, our house, the Federal Ministry, must be there to actually realize this historic opportunity. There should be 500 new professorships, and this is already a huge amount, particularly in scientific terms. Young people and students too will benefit, because this clearly creates study conditions as we really want them to have. A person who starts studying can expect to be successful in some time. In this regard, Mrs Kuntzl, I believe we will never come together. I need to create good study conditions for the active students, and I look and look for students to complete their studies. That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The question of how many start a study is not the decisive one. You, Mrs Kuntzl, argue with 20,000 beginners. – The universities do not know the system of beginners' places. It applies to most studies of free access to higher education. Then why can you define what a beginner's place is? You can rise with the place definition at the colleges, but not in most of the studies at the universities. Therefore, the question of how many starting places are lost is also a purely fictitious calculation size. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: What is it like in medicine with beginners' places?]] They have said that this government is adorning itself with foreign feathers because it benefits from something that has resulted in a vote in July 2017. – The government, however, shares this decision, implements it and does not change it in the framework of budget accompanying laws. The government is not considering any other budgeting, but it realizes what is possible and can also be done again in the context of university funding. Mrs Gamon, you have also pointed out the poor conditions. I didn't know exactly from which country They speak there – I suppose, not from Austria. The ERC Grants, which are highly competitively awarded by the ERC, the European Research Council, are, as it were, the most prestigious prizes, and we stand at 218 ERC Grants at number four, with respect to the population. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If that's not a good indicator, I don't know! This good indicator can only be achieved because our framework conditions are good for those who want to study and research. You also know, Mrs Gamon, that our graduates have very few unemployment rates. If this is not a good indicator of the framework conditions for our graduates on the labour market, I do not know what should be a good indicator either. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to briefly discuss the matter – Mrs Rendi-Wagner – with the FWF, you have also mentioned it. The FWF is on a long expansion course. He has also received 110 million euros in the coming budget – more and not less, you have to stress that! We also inform the FWF that it can raise its own funds over other funds, such as national fund funds. It is also clear that the FWF will be able to carry out a further budget expansion through so-called matching funds with the countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammerschmid.]] I don't know why you want the FWF to talk so badly. We know very well that we have brought him into an expansion phase, and this expansion phase will not stop – not with this double budget – but continue. This is something that is certainly necessary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Once again, I must stress: It's always interesting what's not mentioned. The Austrian Academy of Sciences receives a proud plus, 10 million euros more for the Academy budget, plus – once again – an expansion of the so-called Campus Academy in the 1. Wiener Gemeindekreis, which will be a great meeting zone for the public and research. We have IST Austria, and they are really good on the road in the basic research area, and they continue to be equipped with good resources. Why mention You're not talking about these things when you're talking about bad conditions? – I think that would be a contradiction to your statement. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I said earlier that in my opinion, the High House can agree with a good feeling, with a good conscience, with a lot of rationality of the UG 30. With the UG 31 you can be truly satisfied, you can agree – and even if some arguments were put forward against it: I do not let myself take my good mood in connection with the UG 31. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45594	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Muna Duzdar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45618	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Dear students at the gallery! [[Abg. Anger: System!]] I promised myself a little at the end of my speech yesterday, and you, Federal Minister Fäsmann, seem to have promised to the Budget Committee too! I remember exactly that you said a sentence – and I noticed it well – that I have never heard of an ÖVPler. You said you didn't want universities to become institutions for elites either. – Mr Federal Minister, you must have promised, because your policies and actions mean exactly that, an elite education at universities. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zadić.]] How else can it be understood, Mr Federal Minister, that you are reintroducing the tuition fees for working students? Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government are constantly talking about the performance providers: We have to make policy again for the service providers, we have to be there for all those who pay into the system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] From autumn 2018, they will introduce the tuition fees for the students employed. But I have to ask you: Are these students who go to work by the way, perhaps not performance providers for you? Do they not enter the system? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] When I say that, I speak from my own experience, because when I started studying in 1996, there was no tuition fees. In 2001, the tuition fees were introduced, and I remember exactly what a burden it was to deal with them. I think that we have reached a very high point, because studying the inhibitory threshold is extremely high for children from working-class families. It is a scandal that in 2018, education is still inherited in such a beautiful and magnificent country as Austria. That's a great scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Our task as politicians and politicians is to reduce the thresholds and social barriers and not to create them. In addition, Mr Minister, you delete one fifth of the places for beginners and introduce legal access restrictions. I don't quite understand this because this policy you are making is not logical to me. They have adopted an excellent scientific budget, the SPÖ has also committed itself against the votes of the ÖVP for a significant increase in the university budget and has also enforced it. At the same time, Austria is in an excellent economic situation, the economy is rising, the money would be there – so it simply fails and simply fails because you do not want, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45678	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Alois Rosenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45702	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests on the gallery and appreciated ladies and gentlemen to the transmission devices! Political debates in themselves and in particular budgetary policy debates have a feature: It's always too little, it's always in the wrong place, it's always too late, and if it's not all that, then it's someone else's done it. Dear Lord Federal Minister Fässmann, I admire the patience and competence of the scientist. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP, as well as on Mr Hauser and Mr Neubauer.]] I would like to focus on a part of our educational landscape, which has been a success story over the past 25 years: the technical education system. Why is it a success story? – There are many reasons, I just want to delete a few. There are excellent study conditions, close care conditions, short study periods, a variety of vocational training courses, also applied in practice and in the regions outside. A feature which emerges here and which must be highlighted: We have a much higher social mix there than at the universities, and this, ladies and gentlemen to my left, despite the funding of study places, restrictions on access and partly moderate contributions to studies. [[towards SPÖ]] All these horrors, which are painted on the wall here, do not lead to or prevent us from having a higher proportion of students coming from non-educational groups. You can turn it and turn it as you want: For the 2018/2019 budgets, EUR 25 million is estimated for the high school system, despite a budget path of family redundancies and low incomes, as well as the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions to debt reduction. This funding also means that 450 beginners can be provided in October – which is not a fictitious but a real size of the data. In the future high-school development plan, an expansion of the FH system will take place. There are currently 600 courses, there will be a place for all students, which corresponds to their interests and inclinations. This is important for the discharge of universities, and the success story of the technical universities can also be continued due to the 2018/2019 budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45753	Next item is the report by Mr Erwin Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45778	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners! I refer to the corresponding budget for the years 2018 and 2019 in my comments on the field of education. However, I would like to thank all the educators at all schools in Austria – from Burgenland to Vorarlberg – for their excellent work, for their commitment and for their commitment. A warm thank you for your work directly in the schools on site. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The current educational budget for 2018 and 2019 is not really ambitious and hardly sustainable. For the current year 2018, for example, 8 824 million euros stand ready, which is 1.6 percent more than in 2017, Mr. Minister, and there is only an increase of 0.2 percent in 2019. The 2018 staff plan foresees 45 308 planning posts throughout the school sector in Austria and for 2019 even a reduction in designated planning posts, the state teachers regarding 2019 even provide a minor amount of say and write 14 million euros. In other words, in the compulsory schools in Austria, 2019 should not be employed at all at all, which, of course, cannot be accepted in the face of the rising educational challenge, Mr. Minister! In my opinion, saving on education, saving the young generation is certainly the wrong way. These budget approaches for 2019, Minister of Education, show that you, together with the Minister of Finance, are simply not in the system, but are saving people, with the unmistakable people, who are being robbed of the future. That is exactly the opposite of what you have always claimed, ladies and gentlemen. I think that three developments are very bad personally, including the savings measures relating to the expansion of school forms all day long. They said that the funds would be raised by 2032. These 750 million euros were still decided together in the old coalition. This extension of resources means that the possibilities for expanding all day schools are limited only. In particular, the local authorities will be asked to check out, as well as the parents and, of course, the single parents, for whom it is difficult to reconcile, especially in rural regions, occupations and families. I would like to address one aspect, namely institutional childcare: The 15a agreement is due to expire in August of this year, and this, although it has just succeeded in 2018 in ensuring EUR 52.5 million for institutional childcare, for kindergartens, but in 2019 it looks very different, which is much worse. Minister of Finance Löger and also you, Minister of Education, have said and written 1 000 euros for institutional childcare for all communities and kindergartens in Austria for 2019, which means approximately 47 cents per municipality. That's just funny, that can't be taken away. This is another case in point that the youngest ones, with the weaker ones, are saved and that the parents' pockets are taken. That's not right, that's anything but fair, that's extremely unfair. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I would suggest how to get out of this mess: In 2019, a budget surplus of EUR 541 million is proposed for you, i.e. part of this money could be used to strengthen communities financially, strengthen kindergartens financially, and, of course, relieve parents and single-parents of their money. This would be socially fair, sustainable and would also ensure more equal opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Arbitrator.]] [[Abg. Little: This is the retro style of the SPÖ!]] Under our school note system, I would give you and the Minister of Finance the note four to five, but with the chance of improvement. [[a small table written with a cred “4 – 5”]] In this sense, I would also like to thank you very much, Minister of Education, for listening to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45874	The next speaker was Mr Martin Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e45895	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Now I have observed the ques tion of the Minister, but you have not verbally formulated it, and therefore I do not know whether many of those who come from your field of education have understood it at all. Apart from that, ladies and gentlemen, I have also spoken on behalf of the Committee on Research, Public Health and Consumer Protection, because the alleged or actual under-doing of the Research Fund has been repeatedly addressed. This issue is as old as I am already in politics and here in the House, or have seen it as an observer from the outside. Since 1994, there has not been any federal budget in our country, which in the ordinary budget has reflected the fullness of the FWF, but – and now the good is coming! – Every year, from other sources, from other ministries, it has succeeded to ensure the donation of the FWF not only to 100 percent, but also often beyond. I assume that this will be the case this time too. This may also be due to the fact that the responsibility for research is still not enshrined in a ministry. There are good reasons why this is so, but perhaps also reasons that it would be better otherwise. But that's a needy question. In this context, however, I would also like to deal with the framework conditions and therefore also with international rankings. We do not have framework conditions, which ultimately do not have many other countries in competition with us; that is what we have to say. If you look at the rankings and where we're going to find ourselves, I'd think we'd be very well placed. What do I mean by that? – In Austria, for example, there is no research funded by a military apparatus, there is no research funded by the nuclear lobby, because we have gone out of the peaceful research of nuclear power. There is also relatively little funding from the genetic engineering lobby because we have also set very restrictive conditions in Austria. We also have ethical barriers to follow, which we have voluntarily imposed on ourselves, for example, animal experiments are only very, very limited. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Colleagues, who spoke from the SPÖ, mentioned that she had researched abroad, researched in countries where it is going and would be that animals should be taken away from the skull to carry out electricity or brain measurements, such as the apes and the like. I remember that we are in the ranking with such countries, but thank God there is no such thing in Austria, and I am already very proud that we have a different standard. Nevertheless, it is true that, in the area of sources of funding alone, we find very different framework conditions than those that are compared to us, such as Great Britain, the USA, France, Germany, Israel or Switzerland. You have to take this into account. In this respect, the performance of our researchers may even be seen as above average – and I would like to thank you for that too – and there is already a lot of money from public budgets. So I hope that the FWF will receive its donation in the last 30 years. We will pay close attention to this, but I am also sure that this will be the case. The tertiary sector as a whole is – and has been praised as well – financially well. You could criticize a lot – I leave it to the opposition; at some point it will catch up – but maybe I can also make some criticisms: We have to look at exactly the following – because we have also said that we want to free the tertiary sector from overbureaucratisation –: If you see how much time academic staff, research staff for business administration, for drawing up reports we demand from public administration, you realize that there is already a need for action, because it is too much in many areas. Too much administrative activity is hindered, frustrated and does not necessarily encourage maximum benefits. We will therefore have to save clearly in the superfluous administration. We may also have to look at the Austrian high schooling, which is what the students' money does. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Loacker.]] Party-politically ideologized use of 100 percent of students' revenue is not what we imagine. However, this is the main focus of the current leadership of the Austrian high school, where the general political mandate may be replaced by the SPÖ or the no longer existing Greens in the opposition. But this cannot be the task of the majority of students on the left-left ideologies as well as of financing. We need to take a closer look at that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are often not well placed internationally in the rankings, because apples are compared to pears. We compare in many rankings, I only take the university rankings, often with locations. We compare with locations like Cambridge or similar. We organize our universities in such a way that nine universities exist at the Vienna site, I think. In Cambridge there is only one organization, and it is compared. If we were to count all nine together, we would be a little further up in the ranking if you would simply compare locations with locations. It cannot be said that the form of organisation is crucial for statements that are made about whether a research performance or the teaching is outstanding and that the ranking is further up or down. - That's a topic. But if I am already on this subject: In the coming years – in which the tertiary sector is financially well positioned and we also have air for it – we will perhaps be dealing with it academically once and then implementingly, whether our forms of organization, namely fragmentation in the university area, are so necessary at all. Why do we actually have three art universities in Vienna, which offer the same fields of study at two universities – the end and the end of the year? The one university – and it is usually left-led universities or always left-led universities, as we know – has 600 or 700 students and the other university has 900 or 1,200 students. Both have a rectorate, both have an superfluous administration, both have sufficient time for the entire executive to permanently deal with left-left ideology and also articulate it accordingly, and much more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I think the speaking time is over!]] It must be asked whether it is still time-consuming to take such structures into the future. [[Call the SPÖ: They are no longer contemporary!]] At least an academic discussion should be started, and I am in favour of it. [[Abg. Cantzl: Are you still modern?]] You do not support it because you are trying to feed your protected workshops financially. That's the difference between us. [[Abg. Kuntzl: Say something to the burgers!]] But perhaps we can put more money into the administration into research, also in education, education and in the promotion of art and culture, so that it ends up with the cultural creators and artists and less with the so-called cultural managers, who are anyway only ideologised on the road. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am at first satisfied with our budget and will therefore be happy to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46004	Next item is the report by Mr Philip Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46028	Madam President. Estimated government members! High house! Mr. Graf – where is he? – that you have a bit of a problem with direct democracy – the Minister of Health is present – we know that since the smoking debate, wherever direct democracy is prevented. [[Abg. Steger: You've had that for years!]] The fact that we are now also trying to restrict the Austrian high school and student elections, and you may want to decide who is chairing the ÖH in the future – that is how it will not work in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich: Slower! You understand so hard!]] You should have a little basic democratic understanding, too. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Zinggl.]] This is also seamlessly included in what you do at the ORF – everything will be recoloured. In the final analysis, however, the voter and the voter can have the last word and not you. The fact that certain basic democratic principles apply should be no disadvantage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister! I have observed you very closely today when you spoke about the difficulties of the level – about how it is as a new minister and about the difficulties in the reform area – and I have noticed very carefully where you looked: towards ÖVP. Whenever you talked about it, it was difficult with the budget, and when it came to blockade, you knew exactly in which sector the cause of the blockade is to be found. That's exactly what you've seen today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As so often, it is always the same small militant group of black civil servants who have blocked any reform in this area for decades because nothing can change. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is anti-change: There's nothing to change. - Don't rain up! In fact, even the Economic Association laughs at you, because it is anti-location, because it also robs young people of opportunities. [[Abg. Rosary: So if the ÖVP didn't want to change anything, we would have a red chancellor now! Then we would even have a SPÖ chancellor! Who wants that?]] It is really a backward policy pursued by the EIA in the field of education. A small group is driving the entire ÖVP ahead, and the Federal Minister is the sufferer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this thought were the case, we would all ride the horse to work today. Then you'd have to say: What do we need a calculator for? The good old calculator did it too! What do we need a computer for? The old typewriter was always good! – These are all backward debates! And this debate is continuing: What do we need tablets in schools for? Let's do this! The good old house workbook has been tested for decades. Why don't we stick to the old ways? – Unfortunately, this is the thinking of the ÖVP in the field of education. That doesn't bring us a millimeter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] There is always a big talk about the best minds and the metaphors are trying to make sure that we do not have any oil in Austria. [[Abg. Kassinger: Left brain half, right brain half!]] [[Abg. Rosary: The fact that you only look at the left half of the brain is clear!]] But if it is a matter of investing in young people, then suddenly there is no money. When it comes to billions of heavy tax gifts for the big donors of Sebastian Kurz, money doesn't matter at all, but you have to save the young people, they take away the future. And then it says that this is due to a total budgetary responsibility. – That’s not how it can be! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Pilz list.]] The ÖVP is also always talking about performance that needs to be rewarded, but those two thirds of the young people at the universities who have to work by the way so that they can afford their studies at all, which is being punished now. That's where they say you're paying tuition fees now for you to study longer because you're working by the way. Is it performance-friendly or is it anti-performance to punish young people whose parents do not have the necessary money? - That's where we have to counter it. It must not make any difference whether the parents can afford the aid or not. It's about the best minds and the talents, and that's where we have to invest. Unfortunately, this budget is completely lacking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion: All the major improvements that are now being found in the university budget have been implemented together against the will of the ÖVP. If it had gone to the ÖVP, we would have saved in this area. Saving in this area, however, is one of those things that do not bring us forward. Every euro invested in the field of science, in the education of young people comes back twenty times. That's not intelligent saving, but that's stupid saving if you save on the back of young people. I would therefore ask you, Minister of State: You will have any support here in Parliament, but fight You're against these retro-politics in the ÖVP! There are enough people in the ÖVP who really – I don't want to use the word now – who are tired of having to beat around with it, that nothing goes on in the field of education, because they say again and again: The Maria Theresa will have thought something about the school reforms, since we do not have to change anything quickly. Let's wait and see what's happening. – That’s not how education policy works. [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Drozda.]] A little more courage, a turbo for education, for the technical universities – in this area nothing goes further – these are things that we need now urgently! If it is not possible to invest in this future area in times of a high economy in which tax revenue is also slumping, then one simply does not want it. Be so honest and say you don't want to invest in this area – because for the billion-dollar sugar for the friends of Sebastian Kurzist the wallet is always open!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46217	The next item is Mrs Angelika Kuss-Bergner's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46239	Madam President. Appreciate High House! Values Advisors! On behalf of my colleague, Mike Hammer, I am allowed to send quite good greetings to the Association of Comrades from the Urfahr- Umgebung district. - I'm glad you're here! Thank you! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This morning, when I entered the plenary room, I was already aware that the topic of education will be discussed very emotionally and intensively. Education is certainly one of our most important issues. Dear colleague from Carinthia, you spoke very emotionally. I'm also a trade unionist, and maybe you haven't followed it last year: We have decided on a school autonomy package, together with the teachers' union; and the teachers' trade unions are especially keen to advance the training of our children, students and students. [[Abg. Cake: But against the ÖAAB, please!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I know that politics here in the House has been constantly in the process of reforming the school system over the last few years. We have a package of autonomy, and this package of autonomy gives the headmasters with their teacher college scope for design; Design scope especially to make location-related decisions. This begins with a focus on pedagogical matters and goes to the resource allocation of teaching staff. This autonomy also refers to the expansion of all-day school forms. Above all, it is a question of creating a suitable offer. In the 15a agreement, the Federal Government and the Länder reached an agreement that countries can obtain financial resources that are intended to provide initial funding for the development of full-day school forms. These resources, ladies and gentlemen, are available. For 2018 there are still 100 million euros for this, they only have to be picked up. It is announced from the SPÖ that the expansion of all-day school forms is delayed. However, for the expansion of all day school forms, the municipalities and the school holders are needed. The local authorities know very well that they have to deal responsibly with the existing budget resources and have to deal with them in a sustainable manner. That would be a irrational policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are speaking here today of the extension of the Education Investment Act, we are talking about a responsible policy with small steps. There is nothing more pointless than marching with big steps, but not knowing where the journey is going. [[Abg. Kassinger: But in the wrong direction!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We hear here in the high house of the SPÖ always about the need to leave students in school all day, because only the potential equal opportunities. In Austria, we have an excellently differentiated education system with freedom of choice, with regard to the school form all day long. Our education system offers our next generation all possibilities of good training. Our education system focuses on people and their willingness to learn – and learning this is the basis for good training! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, after three days' debate on the budget, I would like to add one more point: Social, ladies and gentlemen, is not left or right, social is responsible action, and responsible action means taking forward-looking measures. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We know that!]] With this budget available to us, and above all with this educational budget, we are going in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46336	Next, Mr. Dr. Josef Smolle is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46360	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! Appreciate viewers! The UG 31, the science budget, is certainly an outstanding highlight of the double budget 2018 and 2019, because for the universities this means that there is really plenty of money. In total, there will be 11 billion euros for the next three-year service agreement, a plus of 13 percent. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] In particular, I would like to stress, however, that it is not simply an additive issue, but rather a general reform of university funding, namely the key figures, the features by which the budget is distributed. It will focus on what budget resources flow into the teaching and thus into training for our young people, which budget flows into research and which is necessary for the infrastructure. This is a very important milestone and, of course, it also makes it possible to control our tertiary education sector very carefully. This control also includes increasing the target value as regards the number of graduates. This overall package also includes a certain increase in the conditions of authorisation. I would like to add something from the experience in medicine, especially from the university from which I come: The introduction of a selection procedure has not only succeeded in bringing the average study duration close to the minimum study duration, but, more impressively, the drop-out rate, which used to be over 50 percent, has now fallen to about 5 percent. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We even often produce more graduates than we did in so many years of so-called free access, where we then left the students to a “numerus erosivus”. It is simply fair to create clear conditions and good study conditions from the beginning. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, a word on basic research: There's also more money. There is an increase for the ÖAW, the guarantee of financing for IST Austria – an institution that has been observed at the moment of its establishment by the Scientific Community with mixed feelings, but which has really come of age and has developed into a true top-level facility – and then, of course, the FWF is also to be called where there is a continuous increase. There's still air up, but there's an increase. So I have to say that it is a good thing, it is a forward-looking budget. I congratulate you, Minister of State, for the good negotiation, for this plus for the tertiary sector. It is an ambitious investment in the future, in our youth! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46419	On the subdivisions of education and science and research, I am now no longer able to speak. This is why the discussions on this subject have now ended. [[11:40:01]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social affairs UG 22: Pension insurance UG 21: Consumer protection
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46467	We come to advise the subdivisions of work, social affairs, pension insurance and consumer protection. I very much welcome Mrs Mag.a Hartinger-Klein. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Josef Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46500	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! We come to the Social and Labour Market Chapter. I have listened to many speakers in the last few days and weeks – in the entire budget debate, in the context of the budget hearing and also in the last two days. I have noticed with the representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ that sentences have fallen which are not reflected in the budget, such as: the families are important to us, the youth is our future, the pensions are important to us, the people 50 plus are important to us, people who voluntarily participate in intervention organisations are important to us. We do not find the importance that you have addressed here in various contributions in recent days and weeks, in the budget; on the contrary, you stand here and really do everything you can to talk about your planned social reduction. [[call to the FPÖ.]] They divide our society by disseminating inequality. I mention a few examples: With your family bonus, which you praise so much and communicate so widely, you promote families with children unevenly. [[Abg. New builder: Again!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Families with high incomes, with more tax revenues being taxed more heavily, families with less tax revenue are taxed less, and families that do not pay taxes because they earn too little, or single mothers are fed down with a alms of 250 euros per year. Why aren't all children in Austria worth the same amount? [[Abg. Gödl: Everyone benefits!]] Why Column Do you already have our society with the children? [[Abg. Gödl: Everyone benefits!]] I say something quite open to you about the principle of foundry – we have often discussed it –: Any social promotion according to the principle of foundry is social as what you are now performing with the family bonus. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: All families benefit from this budget!]] [[Abg. Haider: Incredible!]] [[Abg. New builder: That's what a trade unionist says! Unbelievable!]] Next example: accident insurance. They say that accident insurance has to make a proposal to save 500 million euros. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] 500 million euros in savings mean minus 38 percent in the budget, but the administrative burden is 92 million euros. If we abolish all the administration, you still haven't achieved your savings target. Each one of you knows an example, someone who has suffered a serious accident who has had a serious sports accident and has been well treated by the experts in the accident hospitals. How should the financing of accident hospitals look like the financing of insurance for children, students, students, staff, rescue services and fire brigades in the future if you cut down there? Why don't you keep working in the future? Mrs Sozialminister, please tell us how you want to maintain all these benefits of the accident insurance at EUR 500 million less in the budget. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For pensions: Yesterday, we heard from the Council of Ministers that it was noted that the minimum pension, the compensation allowance for 480 contribution months from 2020 onwards, should be increased to EUR 1,200 for individuals. [[Abg. Belakovich: Great, isn't it?]] 480 contribution months – contribution months means working months – which sounds good, but is hardly correct. [[Abg. Belakovich: Why do you want it since 2019?]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We want something to do!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] I'm telling you why: Men with 40 years of contribution already reach this 1,200 Euro pension to a large, large share. For women, on the other hand, this scheme is totally ineffective. How many women are there to reach 40 years of contribution? You only assume months of contribution, you do not consider illness, you do not take unemployment into account, you do not take child training times into account. [[Abg. New builder: How do you know that?]] That is why we believe that we must act there. We shall put forward a motion for a resolution today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If social policy is really at your heart, you agree with this proposal! Getting children and raising children must not be a disadvantage in the acquisition of a minimum pension, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich: Where is the difference now?]] To care for: In order to really fulfill your headline – zero deficit – all the means are right to delete in the budget. You budget ridiculous 100 million euros for counter-financing to abolish the care rule and you do nothing to finance the necessary 650 - - You make the budget 2018, you make the budget 2019, and you do not make these funds available. [[Abg. Gödl: This is what the Lord Stäger has determined!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Ask him once!]] [[Abg. Gödl: That was the Lord Stöger! Over there he's sitting!]] [[Abg. Deimek: I'd just ask the right person, he's sitting over there!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] Through her non-acting, Mrs. Sozialminister, there are first ÖVP national leaders – including those of Styria, your head of state Hermann Schützenhofer – who call into question the abolition of the care regime. [[Abg. Gödl: Stäger has determined this!]] This non-negotiation in terms of counter-financing puts our joint decision from 2017 at risk of abolishing the care rules. [[call to the FPÖ.]] The abolition of the care rule must remain upright! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the age-part-time – your intention is also clearly recognizable in this regard –: They say the age part-time needs a reform. In reality, this means working longer and being able to retire later. By increasing the age of entry in men and women, you force them to take up part-time work longer and, accordingly, to retire later. [[Abg. Neubauer: But we can't get people to retire with 55!]] The question is whether this is actually true everywhere in practice, especially in the private sector. We will not find many companies in the private sector who say: Stay two years longer and then go to the age part time! We will also be presenting a motion for a resolution today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The lamp shines again, but I still have a lot to say. Finally, I come to an issue that yesterday really annoyed me very much to combat social fraud. They have made it possible for companies to receive a free letter in the future when they fail to register before the start of work, by paying a maximum of 855 euros in the amount of payment, regardless of whether they register ten, 50 or 100 employees later. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This is covered with 855 euros. Ladies and gentlemen! We fought for years for the registration before the start of work. In the age of digitization, where you can register with the local health insurance fund at any time and from anywhere in Austria, you go here and say that belongs changed. This is a free letter for all those who do not register properly in time. [[Abg. Loacker: You know that's not true!]] In 2017, the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse had 30,000 notification infringements concerning the proper registration of social security. Now I'm asking you, after you've loosened this: Will it become fewer violations or more? – There will be much more violations. [[Call the ÖVP: Such a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the reflection of your policy. You save on integration, you save on qualification, you save on training, you save on youth, you save on the weakest, on children and women, on the unemployed, on pensioners. In particular, you will save 20,000 – I have to make the request – in those who really need it, especially in this area, you have a lot of people who have had a chance to find a job about the communities that hit the nose at the door. [[Abg. Lugar: “The nose at the door” is difficult!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: “The nose at the door ”?- Oh, my God!]] Mrs Sozialminister, please make an evaluation of the communities that have taken advantage of this action! You will see that it is mainly ÖVP communities that have taken advantage of this action. I am surprised that there is no cry from you, apparently the party discipline is much more important than taking social responsibility for the people of this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You do not save in the system, you clearly save on the people in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] [[11:49]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46943	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Next item is the report by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e46970	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Muchitsch, you noticed, you really had to tease to find some hair in the soup at the social budget, I noticed. It began to criticize that the new Federal Government managed to increase the minimum pension or compensation allowance after 40 years of service to EUR 1,200. [[Abg. Musical: Year of contribution!]] That's what you criticized! – Oh, Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek is speaking. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, yes!]] Today, it will submit a request for an amendment to 40 years of insurance, equal to the amount of contribution months. So you're criticizing what you're bringing in today. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You didn't understand!]] That must explain to me once! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can understand, of course. It is only necessary to look at what happens if SPÖ is allowed to make social policy without corrective. Where do you see this most clearly? – This is most clearly seen in Vienna. There we see what happened under the Vienna SPÖ leadership in social policy. There, for example, we have an outsourcing at the minimum guarantee, which whistles the squats from the roofs, for many, many years. Your access in Vienna is always: Everyone who comes to Austria will somehow speak the word asylum without knowing what it means best to consider immediately with minimum security. [[Abg. Gudenus: And with citizenship!]] This is your access and this is your way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what you're doing, because, in fact, the voters have run away from you. If you want to see what else the city of Vienna has done in relation to their ah so beloved people, you look into the mosque in the Dammstraße, play war in the little boys. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] This is integration and that is social policy à la SPÖ, and we do not want it at federal level! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Today, put yourself here and say: We didn't know all this! – This is exactly what we are experiencing in Vienna, on the one hand with the bad promotions, with the association Atib, which is promoted by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kollross.]] And you're saying you didn't know that. I am telling you that the former Vice-Chairman of Vienna, who has been drawing attention to these abuses for years, is sitting here, and yet the funding continues to run. [[on abg. Guynus Showing]] That is why I am so glad that this Federal Government will now make a paradigm change, going to a paradigm change to make social policy a success for those people who really need it and who need it to get into emergency situations. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] There are also families with children, especially single parents who do a lot in this Republic. You've always forgotten that, in fact, you've always been talking about. We look at these people. You call the family bonus so bad, and I have to ask you: Where have you been in recent years? What have you done for these people? [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: More than you!]] Now there is money for all families and for all children, a new justice in the tax system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] I know you don't have much to do with justice. SPÖ justice is another. We look for justice in our tax system. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We also see that we can continue to finance our social system in the next few years, because we will not be able to do so in the long run with the principle of foundry. Who is it, then, who has broken the federal uniform system in the case of minimum security? – That was Your Minister of Social Affairs Stöger. He's sitting over there. He didn't make it! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And this has led us to have nine different laws, that there are migration movements from one federal country to the other, that people who had a job have quit to go to Vienna. In Vienna, there has been more minimum protection than in some other federal states for work. These are the abuses that must finally be eliminated, and it is therefore also so necessary that the Federal Government accepts exactly this issue. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Drozda: Do you know the VfGH judgment?]] [[Abg. Deimek: It works in Upper Austria!]] Unfortunately, I did not understand you acoustically, but ask you again, Mr President, if it is important to you. [[Abg. Drozda: Do you know the VfGH ruling to Lower Austria?]] – Yes, my colleague, I know that. And who has caused – and we have just talked about it – that there is no single solution to this day? – That was Stöger’s failure that we don’t have them, and you know that very well, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neubauer: He commissioned the study!]] The Federal Government will repair this right now. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To care for: Mr Muchitsch, it is unreasonable to be here and to speak to the people about the reintroduction of the care system. We have decided together with a large majority in this House. [[Abg. The abolition!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The SPÖ was there!]] You know, this is a constitutional provision. How do you want to get rid of them? Unless the SPÖ also wants to abolish it. That doesn't work, it's just panic to insure people. I don't think so. The care rule has been abolished with a constitutional majority, and it will also remain abolished. Another problem, I am right about you, is that counter-financing is not yet complete, but there was an appointment with the Minister of Finance and the Heads of State yesterday. Of course, the Federal Government is also at work and will not simply let that happen. Of course, solutions are also developed, but every intervention, every solution also needs a certain amount of time, because there are many partners that need to be brought on board – including the national leaders, the national social partners. The Federal Government has done this and is already working on it. We are happy and proud that we are finally able to put our social system on a sustainable footing so that in the future those people who need it can benefit from the social system and not the socialist casting pot principle à la Vienna is put into effect in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47226	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47251	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I see my reputation as the worst social speaker disappearing when Mr Belakovich speaks. [[Rejoicing and condolences with Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Please do not take a model!]] I have already told you on Tuesday that the UG 17 was actually a budget insult because people are pre-accumulated, it would be reduced in the public service staff; instead, staff will be built up. We also see this budget mutilation in the UG 20: labour market. Figures are being juggled and expenditure items are shifted, but actually the trick lies in revenue, namely in contributions to unemployment insurance. As a result, the Ministry has adopted a contribution growth of 6.4 percent in 2018 and a further 4.3 percent in 2019. There is still a need to take into account that contributions are missing, because the lower incomes, especially the part-time workers, will pay less unemployment insurance contributions. We have, I believe, not only received from China the pandabary, but also invested Chinese economic growth in the labour market budget. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Budgetary service assumes that you will have 150 million euros less revenue in 2018 and 250 million euros less revenue in 2019; but this is not the point of the budget smear that you have to represent a zero deficit to deal with this shame. In terms of content, too, there is little point in looking at what is being done in the labour market budget. For example, it remains the blocked age part-time. Anyone who has looked at this once knows that blocked age part-time for a company will only be retiring if it is not re-occupied afterwards. This is an early retirement program for farms. But of course, the sponsors of Basti Korz also have to continue to receive their sugars, so that remains inside. We also need more money in this budget for emergency aid because the billing of partner income has been abolished. We therefore pay more money in passive labour market policies, but in active labour market policies, if you look closely, less money is spent on the qualification of older people, less money for the qualification of immigrants. That this kind of saving is a mistake, every expert knows, but it is, as has been said, about the budget mutilation. In the UG 21, Social Affairs, the budgetary plant continues. 100 million euros are planned for the costs of the countries from the abolished care regime. What the Minister of Finance will then negotiate with the countries in June, I do not know, money cannot be there for that. The care allowance, which has always been adjusted a little since its introduction, has lost over a quarter of its value. This saves 650 million euros each year. But if you want what citizens want, as long as possible and as much care at home as possible, then you should see that there is a care allowance that allows this care at home. By losing the value of the care money, the incentive to accommodate those in need of care in their homes is increasing, but the care money should actually be linked to actual cost development. Yes, and then we still have the smear of the abolished care regime. For this one, an excuse would be due. Now we have the situation that the inheritor is being cared for in the home at the expense of taxpayers, and the grand monkeys who inherit the apartments and property may rejoice. The Electoral Bat in the UG 22: Pensions is particularly spicy. In fact, the pension scheme of Minister Hundstorfer and Stöger is continued seamlessly: The pensions are safe. Minister of Finance Löger has already told us the story that we want to lead the actual retirement age to the legal person. - So sweaty! At the time, 20 years ago, that had already signed Lore Hostasch. This is in every government programme, only: Nothing happens! Austrians who died in 1970 were 11 years in retirement, the women were 16 years old. Today, they are eight and a half years longer in retirement, but those who died today have had fewer contribution periods because they have had longer training and later entered their professional life. That it doesn't work out, a blind man sees. 17 percent increase in expenditure in the UG 22 in two years! And what happens? - Nothing! Yeah, you're even making the pension hole even bigger. Now comes this great minimum pension at 40 years of work. Those who have worked 40 years full-time in Austria usually have more than 1,200 euros of pension. What you're doing is another part-time incentive. Whether a person is working 30 percent part-time, 50 percent or 70 percent is nothing for the pension, because you get always EUR 1,200 anyway. And this minimum pension – and that's what the liberals have overlooked, because they don't think Europeans – is exportable. It is clear to everyone if a Upper Austrian has worked five years in Germany and 35 years in Austria, then you will also want to recognize him these 40 years. But unfortunately it also works reverse. If there is instead of five and 35 35 and five and if instead of Germany Romania or Slovakia stands there, then the game also works. At 35 years of age in Romania you do not have 1 200 Euro pension. That is, this super-mind board you sell here, we're going to send to Eastern Europe for a large part, because the Austrians don't need this amount at all. [[Abg. Höbart: It's nice that you care about foreigners in this way! Maybe you're a bit of an alien, too?]] That's the pension mutilation you're going to house with, that's the budget mutilation you're going to house with. The citizens are being reproached, and this part of the budget is highly embarrassing.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47314	Next, Mr Klubobmann speaks August Wöginger. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47339	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is high time to clarify a few things in this debate. This is also important for the spectators, because I think they can start with a UG 20 little. I don't know who in the population knows what the UG 20 is. [[Abg. Kassinger: Right!]] We spend about half of our income on employment, social affairs, health and family. We have a budget of about 80 billion euros, and 40 billion of them are spent on these areas. And those who turn to the pult here and say that we do not invest in the labour market, in our social state, in our families, who did not understand the budget, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: That's it!]] Yes, Mr Muchitsch, the families are important to us, and I do not understand why you, as a leading trade union, have conducted good salary negotiations for years in collective agreements - - you will not want to explain Austria, there are no people in this country who make over 1,500 euros grossly. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Musically, alone educators! Part-time workers, deputies, part-time workers!]] This is currently being presented, and on the other hand you are famous for good salary accounts. Take, for example, the entire metal field. Mr Vogl could actually go through the halls with folders with the family bonus at MAN Steyr, because there he has hundreds of employees who will benefit from this family bonus in full. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Musical: unemployed!]] And why doesn't that make the opposition? - Because it didn't come from the opposition! And if something doesn't come from the reds, it won't be marketed either. That is the reality in this country! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We will do this, because if you get 1 500 euros net per year for a child, ladies and gentlemen, then this is and remains the biggest tax relief for families with children who have ever given it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not all children!]] You cannot explain why you have not contributed to the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They didn't hire you!]] Of course she's budgeted! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, it's not true!]] That's why you've been here all the time. Of course, these 140 million euros are budgeted, of course this is illustratible. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Sure not!]] Secondly, If we had a problem that we did not have, because unemployment was God’s thanks, but if we had a problem, that would still be in the final cover. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is not a proper budgeting!]] This was an excuse for social democracy in order not to have to accept this measure. Why not? - Because it does not come from social democracy! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We help the people with low incomes, the tablelers, those who work in the hospitality industry who work in commerce 40 hours a week for 1,500, 1 600, 1 700 euros. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Women? Women! Women!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: And more!]] And those people, who are the service providers for us, we return around 300 euros a year, because they deserved it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The AMS budget has not yet been addressed or just so on the verge, and it is interesting why not. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Then talk about the cuts!]] We have around 1.4 billion euros in the AMS. And what happened on the Board of Directors of the AMS? – Consensuality! [[Abg. Neubauer: Go!]] Everyone agreed! And employees' representatives, employers' representatives and government are represented on the Board of Directors of the AMS. The employees' representatives, we know, are also SPÖ trade union representatives. [[Call the ÖVP:Leider!]] That was decided unanimously! This budget was adopted unanimously. So if the red trade unionists agree there, ladies and gentlemen, then it can only be a good budget, and that is it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We even have at our disposal a little more funds per unemployed person in the 2018 budget than we spent in 2017 per unemployed person. That's reality, and that's what the people should know! The people who do not have a job are at our heart, but we need to see that we also bring them back to the labour market as soon as possible. That's our approach! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another word on pensions, too, because the measure we already had in the Council of Ministers yesterday is now being called for. We have always said – and this is what the government programme says: For 40 years, there is to be EUR 1,200. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: And the women go out empty!]] And, Mr Loacker, it's not like everyone had it anyway. I like to invite you to the Inn district, there are thousands of pensioners who used to work in Germany receive a bad pension for 20, 25 years, with us at home also in about 500 euros for 20 years, who have 1 000 euros. And there is the family law, because many women have not worked by these men. They raised children, as was the case in my family, for 14 years without care, without social security, without the payment of pension periods. They're performance carriers! These are families who have worked all their lives, Mr. Loacker! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is the typical neoliberalism, where one slides down the steps at once and is said: No, no, we don't have these people anyway! – Of course we have them, and we help them! And addressed to the SPÖ: One thing I would like to know: Why did the thousandser exist at 30 years of contributions? Why were you right about the years of contributions? We have decided that together – only for information! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Because we were in the government and have worked it out accordingly!]] We have the scheme 1 000 euros at 30 years of contributions, and now there are 1 200 euros at 40 years of contributions. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] And as we shape the years of contributions, we have not yet got into it and we have not yet agreed on it, so let's surprise you in this measure. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] We'll put in a good law! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, yes!]] At any rate, we will put forward a better law than Mr Stäger has presented in order to abolish the care sentence. Yes, we stand for the abolition of the care rules, but that was a bad law, even in the legal interpretation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] To date, we do not know how to handle it when someone died at Easter, who has been in the nursing home for five years, which is really with the care rules. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This will be simplified by you! Yes, yes!]] This is a bad law, and we now have the task of repairing it. We are also doing this, and we will replace the mere loss of revenue for the countries and communities. There is this commitment, and we will implement it, but it is a law that is in need of repair, because it has been made bad, I would like to mention that too. But we assume our responsibility, including for care, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47694	The next item is Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e47716	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Mr Wöginger, I am happy to meet your wish for more focus on the AMS budget, because compared to the 2018 budget provisional, March 2018, exactly the AMS budget will be reduced to almost half a billion euros. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] We face a situation in which this year, this year, 540 million euros will be cut, and in the next year, in 2019, another one will be added, namely a reduction in the AMS budget by an additional 90 million euros. [[Abg. Wöginger: There are just fewer unemployed!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Less unemployed means less expenditure – this is an account according to Adam Riese!]] Two very sensitive areas are particularly affected by these cuts: firstly, the active labour market policy, which has already been mentioned, is about opening up people's prospects and opportunities, which they do not have due to partial failures in the labour market, because precisely these groups, young people with lack of skills, but of course also older people in long-term unemployment, do not benefit by the upturn in the economy to the extent they should. Yes, they are not allowed to do so, because the economic upturn in these groups does not come about, they benefit only to a small extent, and precisely these groups now need support at this stage of the high-economy. That's exactly where the Federal Government deletes the corresponding funds – Tag Training Guarantee up to 25 years and Tag Action 20 000. The second area in which also immensely saved – again focus on the AMS budget! – and the savings fund is set up, the integration of recognised refugees into the labour market. We face a situation in which, in 2018, only more than 50 percent of the funds actually needed will be available for measures of integration this year, and next year we will delete this item completely. Together with the further reduction of EUR 80 million in employment, you will create a huge obstacle to integration. This will build up a state-appointed integration barrier for some 33,000 recognised refugees, for aylene-based and eligible persons. They should actually be integrated into the labour market. Moreover, by removing the year of integration, they deliberately cause a state-approved mass announcement of up to 2,000 people in private educational institutions, who currently provide German courses, who carry out competence checks, and, and, and. They delete these 2,000 people, 2,000 German trainers, trainers who carry out competence checks, and, and, and, we speak, for FPÖ and ÖVP so expressed, of Austrian citizens, the job and thus the basis of life, without drawing with the eyelashes. [[Abg. Belakovich: How do you get this?]] - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are official information from the AMS and the GPA. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes if you take that for beard coin!]] [[Abg. Deimek: Aha!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: The AMS budget has been decided unanimously!]] If you were faced with a termination of this scale in the private sector, it would normally be assumed that, and so far, it was, hectic operationality would break out in the government fractions. Nothing of this kind is happening now! [[Abg. Belakovich: What are the...?]] If you cause this, if you order that up to 2,000 people are deleted their jobs in the area of the year of integration, then there is nothing to be seen about social measures. [[Abg. New builder: You don't know each other!]] I don't notice any social measures. What measures do you take to protect these people from unemployment or to convert, train and promote them? [[Abg. Belakovich: But not through us! These are measures of the AMS!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ: This is your social policy!]] What is this work and social policy being done by the government? – This is state-orientated unemployment, and this is the state-run prevention of integration that is being carried out there. In the analysis of the 2018/2019 budgets, one simply has to conclude that these people are probably not in the focus of the current federal government and are not as important as they should actually be. They are young people with a lack of skills, people who have no job opportunities on the labour market due to longer unemployment, and older people who are unemployed, no matter. These people just don't care! [[Abg. Schimanek: Is not true at all!]] You don't care about refugees who have a recognised asylum ground and can stay here. Yes, and of course also those people who work in this area. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, yes, those who work in the area!]] They just remove the means. The answer to the question to the budget, Mrs Minister, has often been: The creativity of the AMS management will be required to maintain the measures further. I have to say quite honestly: In view of an increase in the rule budget of about 50 million euros and at the same time cuts in comparison to the 2018 budget provisional of 540 million euros, this creativity is really to be sought, because this is simply not possible and simply cannot be lived. That is why we are making the following request. I think that is a targeting request. [[Abg. Belakovich: Who, then, belongs to this “we ”?]] [[Quoted print version removed]] It will really be possible to continue and maintain the measures that have been taken. I'm asking for approval. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: We can't support it!]] [[12:15]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48060	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag.a Beate Hartinger-Klein has now been reported to speak. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48087	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Austrians! On the election day, we voted in favour of a change and a renewal of our home country, and this mission – that is also the firm will of the Federal Government – we want to fulfill: Change in the sense of our homeland. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With everything I am thinking of as a Federal Minister, whether it be the future structure of the AMS, whether it be the structure of social security funds, I have always clearly in mind the well-being of citizens and their legitimate claims. Everything I do is aimed at improving services for citizens. There will be no deterioration in the benefits that people will receive under our social contract and for which they will also pay, both from means of taxation and from social security contributions. On the contrary: By improving efficiency, additional resources will be released from the system of supply. An active labour market policy means that, as a result of the expected economic and employment development, the various measures are targeted and cost-effectively oriented according to the labour market situation. The main disbursement positions can be classified in qualification, support and employment measures and programmes of the AMS and the Ministry of Social Affairs and the ESF. It is precisely because I take seriously the labour needs of Austrian entrepreneurs according to qualified forces that I will be decisively opposed to the shortage of skilled workers. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that the need for skilled workers should be met primarily by an intensification of domestic training and by the best possible qualification of existing workers. To this end, extensive training measures are being put in place, which are already intended to reach out to young people. As part of the Job Akt programme, 42 million euros will be available for training until 18 in 2018 and even more in 2019, 53 million euros, to qualify young people beyond compulsory schooling and thus to make them really fit for the labour market. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] For the implementation of the training guarantee up to 25 we will invest up to 37 million euros. In the context of the training guarantee up to 25, a coherent strategic approach is therefore developed to prepare young people with personalised training for their professional life and to secure the highly needed professionals. Due to the current favourable economic and labour market developments, it is not yet possible to estimate how much budget will be needed for a continuation of 2019. However, the training guarantee up to 25 is at least an important part of the Job Active programme, and it can therefore be assumed that it will continue in 2019. In addition to the need-based development of the current regulation on skilled workers, in which the occupations in which there is a long-term shortage are defined annually, the Federal Government, in close cooperation with the personnel seeking companies, will force the field of employment-related qualification. In addition, further development of the red and white red card will help us address the needs of the tourism industry. The corresponding innovation of the Labour Market Policy Financing Act will make it possible in the future to make the use of funds more flexible and thereby also to integrate long-term unemployed into the labour market. The reintegration of persons who are in favour of unemployment for more than 365 days at the AMS will be supported by up to EUR 105 million from the effort provided for the AIVG benefits. As regards immigration into the Austrian labour market, the government programme provides for the development of an overall strategy for qualified immigration. In the future, it is important to distinguish clearly between forms of immigration, i.e. a clear differentiation between qualified labour migration, EU mobility and asylum. Legal migration will be strictly oriented to the needs of Austria in the future. Those immigrants who already have access to the local labour market will in future be encouraged by the establishment of competence centres with appropriate expertise from all integration-related areas, but will also be required. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In order to promote older people specifically – including an important approach – we use a mix of qualification measures on the one hand, such as updates of obsolete training, retrainings or higher qualifications in the areas in demand, and employment promotion, namely wage subsidies to employers, on the other hand. The existing 50+ employment initiative will continue in 2018 with a planned budget commitment of 165 million euros. On my initiative, the necessary AMS priority period of persons was reduced from 180 to 90 days. It is also a new opportunity to promote job-related qualification and placement foundations within the framework of the initiative in order to better meet the right professional needs of the economy. And now to the women: The career of many women is characterised by family interruptions and part-time work. In order to achieve the objective of more active participation of women and women in the labour market after job interruptions, women-specific measures are set in the framework of active labour market policies. Information, advice and support are offered in special courses such as “Re-introduction with the future”. In 2018, 10 million euros are planned to support 6 400 women in their successful return to work. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Anger.]] The reduction in the unemployment of people with health restrictions is a major concern to me. This objective is illustrated in the EAG 21 Objective 2 as well as in the EAG 2 and 4 Objectives 20. Preventive measures such as fit2work are intended to prevent the exclusion from working life and to facilitate the re-entry of the AMS labour market policy offers. Similarly, the implementation of the disability measures provided for in the National Action Plan should help to reduce or prevent unemployment and increase employment. Ensuring adequate staff in the care sector – the need is becoming ever higher there, as we know – is one of the biggest challenges for us in the future. For this reason, the AMS implements programmes that are strongly geared to qualification as needed. For example, 6 000 people are currently being trained annually in the field of care and health care, or are highly qualified. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the AMS we spend more on the funding budgets of 79 million euros than in the previous year – 79 million euros, although unemployment is falling. As a result, a funding budget of EUR 3 633 is available for the unemployed, which is EUR 414 more in support than last year or the years ahead. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now again to action 20 000: We would thus, I say, create an imbalance and an uneven opportunity, because in the continuation of the 20 000 action, only a few people would use the funding budget, while the large majority of the unemployed would then have to be satisfied with only EUR 2 200 per year – they currently have, as said, about EUR 3 600, so that would be EUR 982 less for every single unemployed person. I do not understand this as equal opportunities, because from my point of view it is deeply unfair. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The topic of labour inspection: The new decree to control the labour inspection is an immediate measure and also a first step in the right direction: advise instead of punish. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The further development of the labour inspection has now begun for me. With regard to the Court of Auditors recommendations, a new number of effects has been developed which measures the improvement per intervention, i.e. per consultation and/or control. This replaced the old efficiency factor, which only measured the corrected defects per control. I would like to see more systematic consultation in sectors and areas where this systematic consultation seems useful, for example in the food trade, in the hotel industry or also in hospitals. The formula is: We are not supposed to have any shortcomings at all. – This is to be achieved through more systematic consultation, which facilitates follow-up control – with greater legal certainty and greater planning certainty – for the benefit of workers. The labour inspectors are professional professionals on these issues and provide valuable services to society regardless of the decision-making discussion, for they prevent personal suffering. I am aware of the important task of these work inspectors. I fully support my labour inspectors, because I have great confidence in them and great appreciation for them. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the context of minimum security, an agreement could be reached at the national social conference last Friday in Leoben that the countries will be able to reach me by 30. A proposal on an Austrian-wide solution was presented on June this year. If there is no agreement with the Federal Government, a principle law will be drawn up for an Austrian-wide harmonised minimum guarantee scheme. I would like to point out three points: first, fight poverty, second, stop immigration into the Austrian social system and third, increase the incentives for work. – These are the objectives for minimum security. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the field of man's policy – which is also part of my department – I can highlight the biggest project from various projects: the Boys' Day on 8. In November, it is about extending the male range of career choices. It is intended to force supposed women's professions, such as pediatric gardens, folk teachers, nurses and elderly people. Next topic: Ensuring care. Ensuring decent and high-quality care and support for people in need of care and disability in Austria is, of course, a major challenge. The principle of self-determination applies to us. Ensuring a decent and high-quality care and care is the highest priority for me in the care. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As the figures for care show for the next two years, we are on the right path. In 2018, 182 million euros will be available for care more than in the previous year and in 2019 even 198 million euros will be available. This means an increase of about 380 million euros for care for the next two years. Financing may not only be provided through the budget of the persons concerned but also at the expense of the caregivers and caregivers. The government programme provides for the development of a concept for long-term financing of care involving the institutions and local authorities concerned. This overall approach must be equipped with measures and incentives to enable, among other things, the people concerned to stay at home for as long as possible. This relieves the care homes and saves them at the expense of the expensive nursing home beds. In Austria, around 80 percent of those in need of care are cared for and cared for at home in different care facilities. For this reason, it is important not only to provide the caregivers with the greatest possible support in their valuable activities but also a discharge. I declare myself to be the legal and social protection of the caring family. The increased support of caregivers through the expansion of the services for recreation, maintenance and improvement of health, psychological support and information and instruction in care activities is sustainable for all people in Austria in the best possible quality. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Caregivers are one of the most important occupational groups. In this circle, let me express my thanks to all the caregivers who give us in Austria are available to provide truly great and qualified services and have great challenges in their actions. [[Accompaniment with FPÖ, ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Loacker.]] They work close to human beings and see what the human beings are all about on a daily basis. Caregivers can care for and care for patients through this close proximity – according to their respective situation. This is done taking into account all its characteristics and medical and nursing challenges. Care needs to be taken to ensure that care professionals have an adequate reputation within the population – in other countries they have a very different role, which many who work in health care know. This project includes, in addition to raising awareness among citizens, the creation of a uniform framework for a modern care system throughout the federal territory, with, of course, the individual's self-determination always in the foreground. A quality assurance is important to me not only in the stationary field of care, but also, of course, in the 24-hour care, which is particularly important in our health care profession as an important component, as an important module. That is why I am also in favour of further optimization. However, we can only work out this step in joint discussions with all those involved. In a first step, a single, transparent seal of quality for mediation agencies is to be created and awarded in order to meet the goal of high-quality care. On this first point, the agencies are in the focus, but I would also like to support the caretakers. Especially communication is a top goal, for example, to improve it through German courses. As a further quality assurance step, I intend to see the mandatory house visits carried out regardless of the type of qualification of the caregivers in all promoters. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Swiss journalist Georg Rimann once held: “Motivation does not call for compassion, the disabled do not need over-care, nor do they have to take care of it. What they need is partnership recognition as a full-fledged person, motivation for self-employment and assistance (only) where it does not go otherwise." According to Rimann, the highest good for people with disabilities is the right to a self-determined life. That is to say, the equal right of people with disabilities to work – like that of all other people – must be safeguarded. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This includes the right to earn the living through work freely chosen or accepted in an open, inclusive and accessible labour market and working environment for people with disabilities. People with disabilities are affected to an increased level of unemployment or are at risk of unemployment. Therefore, I am committed to increasing the use of support for people with disabilities, especially in the main age of work and in young people. Now on the subject of pensions: The Federal Government recognises the social, cultural, economic and political contributions of the older generation and advocates a strong involvement of older people in all areas of society. The most effective means of combating poverty in the EU is to increase the level of compensation in the Member States. which must be qualified as a contribution-independent special benefit under European law and which is subject to European export obligations. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Unfortunately, he's not here now. For single persons with 40 years of contribution, there will be EUR 1 200 and for married persons with 40 years of contribution there will be EUR 1 500. Therefore, those who have been working for a lifetime and have made contributions to this purpose should be able to expect social security in retirement through the state pension system in the form of adequate benefits. The Federal Government is clearly committed to a stable and sustainable pension system, which maintains the standard of living in old age and remains affordable for individual generations. The aim must be to provide this safety in old age to future generations too. In return, however, existing special privileges in the state and semi-governmental sectors still need to be examined and finally abolished. A further step is to: Admissibility from the statutory retirement age to the low-quality limit and thus to achieve an increase in purchasing power. I now come to the issue of consumer protection. Consumer protection is a matter that is very, very important to me. I am therefore pleased to be responsible. Consumers must be aware of their role in the market and their scope for action. This also includes knowing their rights and being able to appeal to them on a given occasion, which, unfortunately, is not often the case in reality of God. But to get closer to this goal, action at several levels needs to be taken: We need to increase consumer awareness and consumer confidence. We need to improve consumer rights so that consumers can meet businesses at a level. And we must ensure that existing rights can be enforced if they are not respected. This not only benefits consumers but also protects companies operating in accordance with the law. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Kolba.]] It is another goal of this Federal Government to ensure the independence and performance of the VKI. The restructuring planned by us will further strengthen the VKI and become an even more efficient organisation. Promoting the enforcement of consumer rights is an essential priority. I just managed to do it in the context of an order concerning the VW diesel scandal, that there would be a collective complaint and that we would get a process financier for it. I'm so sorry about the fact that we succeeded. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ as well as applause with the ÖVP.]] This is an essential step towards consumer protection in Austria, and I believe that, as Mr Kolba always says, David is against Goliath. The protection of consumers in online purchases is an up-to-date issue and is becoming increasingly important. The Internet Ombudsman is an important service facility for the consumer, it helps in matters and disputes relating to shopping. We have set a high goal, which we can and will only achieve together. We must never forget that it is about the people in our country, and it is about Austria! I will do everything in my power.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48404	Mr Werner Neubauer has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48430	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I can still remember that, when I was present at a Parliament meeting ten years ago, almost all the parties of this House have become known for the state pension system, for the payment procedure. At the time, however, we liberals urged that the sole commitment to this payment procedure would be too little to ensure the system for the people of this country for the next few years and decades, and called for action. I am very glad that this Federal Government has now defined in its government programme four objectives for maintaining the pension system, because I believe that these are important steps: firstly, the increase in the average age of actual retirement, secondly the increase in the proportion of women entitled to an independent, actually decent pension, thirdly, the fight against poverty in Austria – which is also a very, very important issue for me personally – and fourthly the fight against social abuse and the sustainable abolition of pension privileges, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have already been more ready for this path in recent years, and if the Court of Auditors today notes that these pension privileges still exist to an increased extent at the Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Labour, the ORF, the National Bank and, above all, at the city of Vienna, then we know that this Federal Government is on the right path with the definitions to combat the poverty of old age. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already made massive applications for poverty reduction from 2008 until today. After all, in Austria, as in the survey on poverty we have just held in this House, there are 900 000 people who are at risk of poverty and 500,000 people who are manifestly poor. Of course, this cannot and should not exist in a country like Austria to this extent in the future. [[We welcome the FPÖ as well as Mr Strasser and Mr Schwarz.]] We have therefore already submitted a request for this in 2008. He had the content of allowing a minimum pension of 1,200 euros, 1 500 euros when a spouse completed at least 40 years of work. However, we were blocked for ten years, we were put down in the committees and confronted with figures that were bar of any reality. With Reference to billions has been made to our concerns by Minister Hundstorfer and Minister Stöger over and over again, and has been postponed to the long-term bank. The current Federal Government, on a free proposal, has adopted the minimum pension of EUR 1,200 in the government programme; it has already passed the Council of Ministers yesterday. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you very much! It is a milestone in Austrian social policy, ladies and gentlemen. I am also glad that the Socialists can no longer block this request, because you thank God no longer have the appropriate majority in this House. I do not understand the Social Democrats – if 40,000 people can benefit from this smart scheme and a major step against poverty of old is possible – to be opposed to such a great social measure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They themselves know that it is a problem when people are poor and their lives can no longer live up to their own ideas. What happens in the Follow-up? – They withdraw, they lose social contacts, disease occurs, they become depressive. If we had introduced this minimum pension ten years ago and adjusted the index, we would have gone a lot further today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] – You prevented this, I'm really sorry. Mr Stöger, I do not know what you did then to boycott this great idea again and again for ten years together with Mr Hundstorfer. You need to make this clear to your voters. We have always had a clear position on this. If you now take this minimum pension of €1,200 and, at the same time, this is included in the government programme, take up the fight against massive inflation in Austria, we have two cornerstones that can massively counteract future poverty. This is free social policy, ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of it and we can see people in the eye. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Social democracy has prevented this because of its ten-year boycott, so that 50 000 euros have been lost to a pensioner in these ten years. We figured this out. For ten years each pensioner has a loss of 50 000 euros due to the SPÖ's attitude. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There is an excuse for this, ladies and gentlemen, from this pult. – 50 000 euros per pensioner, my colleague! – You were not here yet, perhaps you agree to our request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[The speaker holds a poster entitled “50,000 Euros Loss for Our Pensioners. This is the SPÖ’s responsibility.” in the direction of SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Yildirim.]] The measures taken by the Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, will in future prevent the following: Pensioners are no longer degraded to alms. They won't become a bit bitter that will be rated accordingly to a party book – we won't do either. There will be less poverty in this country, and that is a good thing. – I thank the Federal Government very much, that is the style of the new government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48548	The next item is Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48573	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. It would be so good if we could stick to the truth. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, please, do it too!]] It's incredible! If you hold Taferln up, maybe you should think about why certain things could not happen in the past. [[Abg. Belakovich: Because you didn't want to!]] Look Please visit your current coalition partner! [[Abg. Neubauer: Ministers were all at the SPÖ! All at the SPÖ!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] – We have not been able to determine this alone, you know. [[Abg. Belakovich: Yes, we have enforced it...!]] I also have to make two corrections: Mrs Belakovich, you talk regularly into a vortex in which a lot of envy, a lot of disfavor, is happening, and then, Mrs Colleague, you forget that years of insurance are years of contributions and replacements. So it's completely correct, as we call it. – You just claimed the opposite. [[Abg. Belakovich:... this is wrong!]] Mr. Wöginger – he is not in the hall right now – has also talked into a vortex and confused or forgotten things. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich.]] The Board of Directors of the Labour Market Service shall be presented with a budget and may vote for a maximum of its distribution. And do you know why FSG tradesmen agreed? – Because there is more for youth employment in this budget. [[Abg. Belakovich: Look, look!]] - That's right! That was the second correct! – Stay with the truth, if you stand out here, that would be much cheaper for the spectators! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it happens in the speed of the government's action, and there are also mistakes in the hustle and bustle. Vice-Chancellor Strache has called for a measure that we decided before the election to receive a minimum pension/compensation allowance after 30 years of contribution. What has failed that we have been able to determine or decide on the replacement times? – Again at the ÖVP, which was with us in the government at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich]] That is, from these 30 years plus replacement periods, which many women would have benefited, have become 30 years without replacement times. What is now available, these 40 years and the 1,200 euros, brings me back to the hustle and bustle. Wherever you have 40,000 people, I don't know – I don't know – our calculations show that they're up to 10,000 people, two thirds of them men, one third women. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If we were to add replacement times, it would be the other way round, it would benefit two thirds of women and one third of men. – Please, don’t pretend that this is a measure that is now immediately equal and better for all pensioners! It is a small number for which we need improvements and also want to, as well as you, that is not a question at all. It is very important, however, that we add to the times of child rearing, the times of unemployment and the times of sickness, so that at least a few women can enjoy it and that nothing is done about those who, in truth, look through their fingers – women who are affected by poverty in old age. I therefore propose a motion for a resolution so that we all have the opportunity to correct it together, because you have prevented it at the time: [[Abg. Neubauer once again holds the poster entitled “50,000 euros loss for our pensioners. This is the SPÖ’s responsibility.”]] [[towards ÖVP]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Because what you never say when you stand out here is that your measure is not budgeted at all. That means that it would be to be corrected so that the few people, the women and men who will be concerned, will enjoy this benefit as early as 1st of 1st of 2019 and not only in two years, in 2020. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I consider this to be absolutely deplorable to a group of people who have worked their lives and now have nothing of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:53]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48803	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Georg Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48830	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can already say that in Austria we have a stable social system that we have built up in our country for decades through the great labor of people. Starting from the post-war period until now, we have managed to establish economic power, value added, prosperity and social security in our country. At this point, I would like to express my great thanks to all the people in this country who, with their tax benefits, ensure that Austria is a country with a very strong social network. – Thank you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Many measures have been launched in recent years to support people with low incomes. We only need to look at the 2015 tax reform: an improvement for low-earners, negative tax rates for apprentices, for part-time workers and also for single-earners and single-parents. I would also like to mention the activities of the federal states, which often take place in cooperation with the Federal Government and which secure income: the common labour market policy, the management of minimum security and various federal measures, such as housing aid in Lower Austria. I would say that these measures, if they are targeted and sensible, are good and right. Security and support is already very, very important to us in this country. However, there are some groups of people who do not feel really picked up or addressed by these measures. I am now talking about a certain threshold in which income is so stored that you cannot get these social and transfer benefits. These are entrepreneurs – partly with an 80-hour week – tradesmen, office workers, part-time workers, people in situations where family income is scarce. We have these people on the 15th. The promise given on October is that we will strive to establish new justice in this country. I would like to mention two measures which are most targeted at this threshold area. This is, on the one hand, the reduction in unemployment insurance contributions, of which 900 000 people with around €310 per year are affected in the positive, and on the other hand, the family bonus, which affects 950 000 families and 1.6 million children. The difference between this measure and the Series of tax relief measures and, above all, collective reforms are due to the fact that the money is now going where children live. This is a promise the People's Party has given for decades: tax relief in the family sector. This promise will be fulfilled. To sum up, these two measures have a great message, which reads: Work has to pay off again, work has to pay off again, because there is a problem with the fact that the difference between income from work and social benefits is too low, talks with entrepreneurs, with employees at the AMS and with people working in the social departments show us. I myself was allowed to experience it as the mayor of one morning. Together with the AMS, a job preparation has been prepared for a job seeker through a work training. Finally, the text of the party concerned was as follows: I don't care about this money! – This is proof that labour income and transfer income are simply too close together, and that is what we want to change in this country, and that is what we have done. We will see that there is a new justice in this country, and we will work fully on this project. Thank you! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48891	The next item is Mrs Claudia Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48916	Ladies and gentlemen! In yesterday's debate on the women's budget, all the political groups agreed that gender equality cannot be resolved in one place, but that it is a cross-sectional matter. Now we are discussing these UGs, with which you could really move mountains for the women in Austria: Work, social affairs, pensions. In these areas the most can be done for gender equality, and most of it is done wrong – that is what you have to say. In precisely these areas one can read out the government's target cast in numbers: back to the stove, back home, back to conservative role models – women's poverty. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Austrian labour and social law is characterised by negative incentives to work, which are primarily for women. We take extra tax money into our hands to say to women: Don't you want to stay at home, would you?- Oh, my God! Then all of this is regulated again and everyone is satisfied and happy. The already highly debated family bonus – just mentioned by Mr Strasser – is not the big family policy throw, as it is being speeded up here, quite the opposite. True sexual justice does not mean that women can stay at home again and again thanks to the family bonus, but genuine sexual justice would mean that women have the opportunity to live independently and self-determinedly. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Strasser said that the money goes where children live. That's not exactly what happens to the family bonus: The money goes where parents live. It is not a service that benefits the children, because you have to invest more in benefits in kind rather than in cash benefits. [[Congratulation with NEOS and SPÖ.]] I'm sure you know the comparison: The family bonus will cost as much as we spend all over Austria for childcare places. That is, this one. Money would have been a lever that could have been a real step forward in child care. It is necessary to make it easier for women to return to the labour market instead of making it more difficult. They must also be given the opportunity to increase their hourly size so that they can stand on their own feet, not only now, as long as they still work, but also later in the pension. The opposite is the case, including the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions. This is sold to us again as a women's policy measure, because it would affect women in particular, because they often work part-time. However, we are only perpetuating the problem, because if you as a woman increase the hourly dimension, the higher unemployment insurance contributions are all the higher. In other words, changing from a low hourly scale with a lower income to a higher brings the stronger and more radical and noticeable increase in unemployment insurance contributions, which in turn leads to the effect that many people think two or three times, whether it is even profitable to work more. But it'd be profitable. It pays off because full-time work can also make a self-determined life possible in the pension. This is something that is not possible through the family bonus, by reducing unemployment insurance contributions. The last government has also failed to significantly increase the average retirement age of women. The current government is in the sand when it comes to women's pensions, does not want to try it at all. There is no concrete measure to allow women to live with their own pensions by their own means. And that's really very sad. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If you say women, don't be afraid, there's already a man who cares about you, your husband or father state, that's not my idea of self-determination. We must give women the opportunity to work out their own pension so that they can live themselves in old age and do not have to live on the basis of a man.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e48995	The next item is the speech by Mr Ragger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49016	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the house! I want to focus a little on the care rules. I would like to start by drawing on two statistical figures: on the one hand, development in Europe. Today, in Europe, 7 percent of the world's population lives, 25 percent of world production and 50 percent of global social benefits; on the other hand, if we look at demographic development in Austria, we know that in 2020, for example, more than 500 000 people will live in Vienna, who will be over 60 years old, in Austria it will be over two million people. It is indeed a lie – Mr Wöginger said: bad law – that we have abolished this care rule, but if you, ladies and gentlemen here in the house, will not put the accompanying measures in place, then we will be able to read in the media what the Chamber of Labour in Vienna and also in other federal states already postulates: that we will not even come out with 100 million euros to finance this care regime. The cost estimates for this amount to 600, 700 perhaps even 800 million euros. I do not want to tell my Minister that we need to make adjustments to the social budget and I do not want to call on my Minister of Finance to set up the additional funding, but we will have to think about it and start financing this care system. That's what I'm saying: As one also wipes a climb from the top down, one will have to start in the ministry by creating the legal regulations for it, but also the countries will have to take part in it. If there are any rebels among the princes who will then cross over again, we will not continue in this system. I can remember – because I myself was a Social Representative of the country of Carinthia – how often we were blocked, it has always failed in the financing question. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll]] However, this alone is not the crucial reason, but also the question of training that needs to be dealt with in parallel. Ask a nurse who is serving in a nursing home today, what tasks she has! 50 per cent of her work is documentation, 20 per cent of her working time is spent in the evening filling the medications for the old people and 30 per cent of her working time she does her care. If this is the responsibility of a trained nurse today, we have a wrong system. The Germans have been showing us for more than 15 years that medicines can be faded. [[Abg. Loacker: Is there also in Austria!]] Sweden has long introduced it and now saves more than 300 million euros only with this system. Berliner or Dresdener Pflegeheime shows how to work with simple documentation forms in the care today. We also need to start thinking about how training needs to change, which tasks may have qualified nurses or caring relatives. We also need to take a step further. We always talk about new teaching and care professions, but Swiss practice it before us. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] There has been a nursing education for young people for ten years, where they have been able to find a new path that they have gone. - That's the one area. The second area: We will have to make sure that old people in Vienna or in all other federal states are not only put in the nursing home – that is, history has been eaten, they are supposed to spend their last days there alone – but we will also have to do differently, that is, allow care at home. At the time, I was very proud of the Rudi Hundstorfer and all those who sit in the Alpbach Forum each year when the big discussion was started about Ambient Assisted Living. Everyone was excited, no one knew what it was all about until someday they tried to find advice in other countries. In Amsterdam, 2 000 apartments are currently being networked for old people. The Scottish started to apply care at home in 1999. We are still calling on this system today to put everyone in the nursing homes. We will have to make sub-divisions of the mobile service provided at home today. We will have to create the possibility that low care levels will be provided, not in secret, but in the alternative habitats. These are our core tasks that we need to solve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we create this approach, we will be able to relieve future social budgets. You know, the social budget is a huge tanker, try to correct it once, 1 degree to the left and 1 degree to the right. This is the task that we have to solve together. It is only the Minister that can be desired and supported so that she can go this way together with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49073	Next item is the report by Mr Kolba. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49105	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you announced today that VW should be sued by the VKI with a collective complaint, and I am really happy personally. I left the Consumer Information Association in agreement a little over a year ago after 26 years of service, for the simple reason that both the Chamber of Labour, as an ordinary member, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, as an extraordinary member of the VKI, suspended collective complaints against VW. I am therefore very pleased that you are announcing this today and I hope that many of the 340 000 VW diesel victims will participate in this action. [[Consistency with list Pilz and FPÖ]] Whoever listens to us today needs to know: ==References== May you have to report, so you have to be quick now. You have also announced that it is your concern in this legislative period, in particular to pursue the enforcement of consumer rights as an important goal of your department, and that is good because the European Commission published the so-called New Deal for Consumers a week ago, and at the heart of this is that: Collecting complaints for Europe. We will see what remains of it in the discussions within the EU, but this directive, according to the Commissioner responsible, will enter into force in 2019. It is also true that the Commission has chosen a model in which, in particular, the associations are to bring such actions. It will therefore be the task of the Minister of Justice, Moser, to implement it in the form of a law, but it will be your task to ensure that this law can then be lived, so that the CCI can lead more and more such complaints in the future. You have also pointed out in the Budget Committee that you have provided EUR 50 000 for advertisements to bring people closer to consumer protection. I think that is also good, especially if you perhaps make the consumer conciliation body financed by your ministry a little more known. I take from the statistics, which has also been published today, that they are still in about 1,000 cases a year. This should increase significantly, but then the costs will also rise. What most fascinates me with all these announcements is the way in which you want to carry out these enhanced tasks with a dramatically declining budget. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Worm: colleague, that's not true!]] This is simply not understandable at first sight. More tasks and less money – how this should be done, we will see! [[Abg. Worm: That's not true!]] The budget will fall from 5.6 million to 3.6 million euros in 2019. [[Abg. Worm: We explained this in the committee!]] [[Abg. Belakovich:... he doesn't understand!]] I think I've been through your trick. You can obviously be enchanted. The trick is a famous magic trick: Water from India, the magician pours water from a carafe into a glass, the glass is full, the carafe is empty, and with Simsalabim it goes again. You take the caraffe again, pour a glass again, and that goes on all the time. So this is a magic trick that implies: Water – or in our case the budget for consumer protection – never goes away. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] I know that, honestly, as a magic trick from the magic trade, and I say it quite openly now – you don't do it that you betray magic tricks –: Of course, the carafe is manipulated. But that won't work for you. That means I'm giving you a little bit of confidence now that you can actually be magic. If that's not the case, so if you're going to leave these magic forces somewhere on the way, we'll see you here again, and then I'll ask you very critical questions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49199	The next item is the report by Mr Zarits. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49231	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The double budget 2018/2019 represents an end to debt policy. Thank God! For the first time in 65 years, we will again take more than we spend. This is the motto of the new Federal Government. Where a debt policy can lead, the example of Greece has also been seen in the EU. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] We all saw the consequences and noticed who the token and who has to pay the price for a debt policy, namely the little man, it was the middle class and it was the small earners. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] We don't need that in Austria. We do not want new debts, we save in the system, we relieve the people and the families, we relieve those people who work who are diligent, pay taxes and also finance the social system with their taxes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With the budget, we ensure that the coming generations in Austria can live safely and live well and we look to a good future. With the Family Bonus Plus, we relieve families with an amount of 1,500 euros per child per year. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Another step is to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. We want to support all those people, Mr. Colleague, who work hard and who do something. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This is the new social justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Knes: That's it?- Oh, my God!]] We must also address issues that have rightly excited and moved people in recent years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] On the one hand, many pay for their lives, work for a lifetime, but on the other hand have the feeling that they are living less and less and less in the stock exchange. We must protect those who work and pay into the system, so we must finally reduce the tax and tax rate to 40 percent. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Knes]] That is what I stand for, that is what the new People's Party stands for, and that is what the new Federal Government, my dear colleagues, stands for. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, someone who does not work is almost as good as someone who works, that is not social, that is not fair and that is not fair. That's where we have to sit. Minimum security is one of the most important means of combating poverty, but above all it is thought to be a bridge and should not be a permanent solution. [[Abg. Knes: All right!]] What minimum security must in no way be, is an incentive system for immigration into our social system. I think it is right and important to guarantee social security in old age. [[Abg. Knes:... is crazy!]] A person who has worked and contributed for his life must be able to rely on a state pension. This is not only fair for the older generation, we owe it to the older generation. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] People with 40 years of contribution will receive at least 1 200 euros per month in the future, couples with 40 years of contribution of a partner will receive at least 1,500 euros per month. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For us, one thing is clear: Those who have worked their lives must also be financially insured in old age. Ladies and gentlemen, We are going with the budget 2018/2019 new ways, we are going into a good and secure future. People have chosen us to change Austria positively. We are together on the path of new social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49354	The next item is the report by Mr Stöger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49375	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Three things: First: Thank you to Mr Wöginger, he said that the law on the right to care is a bad law. Mr Lopatka and Mr Lopatka have negotiated it significantly. It is therefore a bad law because the SPÖ's proposal to finance care by introducing a tax that would make it impossible for those who have great inheritances to make a contribution to it – with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Gödl: Well, you promised an implementing law and didn't keep it!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The second that took place: You've done a voodoo financing – before yesterday you changed it again – you've said you can finance it with the photo on the e-card. - All right, let me be right. Now it's up to you to make sure it doesn't work that way. I therefore tabled the following motion for a resolution and I am pleased if the EIA agrees: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all the mayors who were creative and who have contributed to bringing people older than 50 years of age and who have been unemployed for one year into employment. [[Abg. Worm: But they were very creative!]] There were many ÖVP mayors who still bear the Christian-social tradition in their hearts. Thank you, respect! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You've given people dignity, you've given people a face. I say this quite consciously, I asked the Minister of Finance for Budgetary Discussions – he was a long-term Chairman – and, Minister of Finance, I ask again: How many people who have been unemployed for over 50 and a year have you received a job in the course of your career as a board of directors? I ask everyone here who has responsibility for a company: How many people who have been unemployed for a year have you recorded in the last half year? The Federal Minister has said that with the 20 000 action we have managed to get 4 400 people into employment. I think these are results that we don't talk about, but that's where we help people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I would now like to hand over, together with Mrs Feichtinger, 2 639 signatures, signatures of people in the Salzkammergut, where a modern model was destroyed by the abolition of the 20 000 action, namely a model of transport services in the municipality for older people, with whom they can be brought to the doctor, for treatment, and through which older people have recovered mobility. You don't save in the system, you save on people. And this is not the case with our model. [[Abg. Belakovich: Your GDR model!]] I think this is an important change, and people have to be given back their dignity. Even in care, it should not depend on how much money you have when you are cared for. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:21]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49524	The motion for a resolution which has just been read has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I am now handing over the floor to Mr Worm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49569	Madam President. Appreciate members on the government bank! Minister! Minister! Yes, today is a good day, if you can say that to the budget, not only bright sunshine, but also a very great social budget. I would like to take special care of the consumer protection budget today and explain it briefly. One has to admit that it is nothing new that the consumer protection budget has traditionally had little significance in Austria over the last decades, no matter who was in the government. I believe we can also agree with all consumer protection speakers on this, and with the support of Mrs Minister, that we should be able to reach a tenth promulgate of the overall budget by 2020 at the latest. This would mean about 8 million euros a year. This would deserve consumer protection in Austria, and I am very optimistic that we will work together. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But it is not only a beautiful day for this reason today, but it is a particularly beautiful day, as it has succeeded under the effort of many participants – I would like to thank everyone – to reach a solution for the Austrian drivers now also in the VW diesel scandal. This will affect more or less hundreds of thousands in Austria. Once again, I would like to draw everyone's attention – even at home – to the fact that until 20. May 2018 – it is therefore only one and a half months’ time – to report to the VKI when they are affected or affected. Thankfully, the VKI has taken over it to coordinate this. Since I think that is important and many are interested, I would like to give you a few facts on this subject very briefly: All car owners of VW, Audi, Seat and Škoda vehicles from 2008 to 2015 are concerned with the EA 189 diesel engine, which – and this is very important – bought the vehicle in Austria before 18.9.2015, regardless of whether they still own the vehicle. That means it's supposed to report to those who sold the car. The whole costs an organisational or cost contribution of 120 euros, all other process costs and risks are covered. I would advise everyone to do so, because it is then about a few thousand euros per passenger car owner to join us here too, because together – I am convinced – we will reach a solution for hundreds of thousands of Austrian consumers. I would like to thank the Minister once again for the fact that you have dealt with this. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Once again to the consumer protection budget: We have always had this way in recent years – Mr Kolba, we have explained and explained it in the Committee, but perhaps again for the spectators – between 4 and 5 million euros in the consumer protection budget. We will continue to have that. It is easy to explain why there is a reduction in the numbering: We could also agree during the previous period that cartel penalties amounting to 1.5 million euros per year in this budget. That is, if you take the 1.5 million to do so, then we are in about the budget of the last few years. But, once again, the goal should be of all of us – for consumer protection goes beyond all party borders – that we simply improve consumer protection by a few million over the next few years budgetly. In principle, it is important to say – and I am very proud to be able to work together – that the VKI has traditionally done a very, very good job in Austria for decades. We will continue to support this work. We will also intensify them, but we will try to optimize them. And here all are called on to introduce themselves with creative ideas, how we can improve consumer protection in Austria, ad personam the VKI, as the tasks have also changed. That is, the “oppressors” – under quotation marks – are today different from 30 years ago, and we have to stop at that. Mr Kolba, you know, we have also discussed this, and we will hopefully find a basis in the field of collective complaints together with the support of Mrs Minister in order to protect and represent in the future consumers in Austria in a truly legal and reasonable way. We'll succeed. In principle, we could now read out all the details about the budget, but it is not too crucial now either. Basically, a large part of the budget, as you all know, goes to the VKI. What is still important to me is to clarify – and we have discussed this more or less in the Committee too – we should try to solve the issues of the future together across all political groups, I say as an example only smart meters. I am very optimistic, the first approaches were very positive that we will be able to deliver tangible results in the next few years together with the Minister for Consumer Affairs, as in the case of VW, for example. Finally, perhaps another criticism, I cannot spare social democracy: What is striking now is that you are always trying very massively to discredit our social policy over your structures, such as the Chamber of Workers or the AMS. I would ask you to be very careful, even in the interests of the people. I just mention one example from the AMS that a citizen told me yesterday. The woman is 52 years old, has been reported to the AMS and has tried to find a job. She also received this job commitment from the company, but would have to take a course that costs 900 euros. And do you know what the caretaker at the AMS said to her? He said to her: You can thank the new government, we no longer have a budget! I would like to ask Mrs Minister to follow up on the matter, I will submit the details. But these are things I don't want in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] This is about a 52-year-old woman, colleague Vogl, who has found a job himself and gets the information from the AMS that it can no longer pay the price of 900 euros because there are no more budget resources. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is the truth!]] So I would ask colleagues in Social Democracy to also draw attention to their officials outside the structures that this is not in the sense of the population in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49626	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49647	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Werner Neubauer, if you look back only ten years, you can of course hide a lot in relation to your announcement that these reforms from 2007 to 2017 would have led to the most massive savings among pensioners. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Noll]] You have to look back 15 years, because the really biggest pension robbery in the history of Austria happened in 2003 under a black and blue-led government of Schüssel I, in which the course of measures that the pensioners now have to carry. [[Abg. New builder: You did not undo this!]] It was 2003 and not later. Our pension system is on very solid legs, and this is primarily because in times of the SPÖ-led government a very, very good work has been done for this system. The pension reforms since 2010, dear Werner, are primarily responsible for the good budget figures, as exactly the right steps have been taken. And the repeatedly claimed cost explosions, which do not exist, which have not occurred and are not present to this day, are not there. [[Abg. New builder: I didn't say that either!]] Since our pension system is always being talked to by our opponents for a long time, I would like to put some figures and facts on the table. After the economic crisis in 2009, an increase in federal funds to pensions was forecast from 2.99 percent of GDP to 3.6 percent of GDP by 2016 and 4 percent of GDP by 2021. In fact, however, the federal funds in 2017 account for only around 2.6 percent of GDP. And this is a value that was before the economic crisis and roughly corresponds to that of the year 1970. Despite the economic crisis, the federal funds have been reduced relative to GDP, and in 2015, 2016 and 2017, the federal funds have fallen nominally. So because of our pension system is dead – that's not dead, it's a top system we have in Austria and about which we are envied worldwide. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, how the reforms work also shows the comparison between the current and the old financial framework of 8. It shall be reported in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Federal Funds remain under the 2016 framework by about 2 billion euros each year. In view of the good economic situation and the careful estimation method in the preparation of the financial framework, it is expected that the actual development will be more favourable than the one adopted in the financial framework. It is expected that federal funds will continue to move in a range of 2.5 to 2.6 percent relative to GDP in 2018 and 2019. And with this, the federal funds remain clearly below all the forecasts and expectations that are made. Ladies and gentlemen, what does the current government intend to do about pensions? An increase in the actual retirement age from currently reportedly 59.9 years to 60.3 years. I therefore say that because the number 59.9 is simply wrong, ladies and gentlemen, because in 2016 the Ministry of Social Affairs has already found a factual retirement age of 60.3 years. And the government is now committed to achieving this goal only in 2020, which was already identified in 2016. So something's wrong. What is to be achieved with this number trickery? [[Abg. Neubauer: That's what you're asking the Stäger, that's your friend anyway!]] But also the measures to achieve this objective, dear Werner, are more than poor. The introduction of the already decided bonus malus system for the employment of older people is simply no longer an issue and is an absolutely incomprehensible measure. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49787	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Yildirim has referred to an actual correction. I assume that you know the rules for an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49814	Madam President. Mr Peter Wurm of FPÖ has made a statement in which he refers to the labour market service and the working chambers as structures of the SPÖ. - That's not right. Neither the AMS nor the Chamber of Workers and the working chambers of Tyrol and Vorarlberg are pleased about this. You can imagine that. I therefore ask you to note that these are not structures of the SPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49849	Mrs Colleague, that was at the absolutely extreme limit of actual correction. The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49873	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! I would like to focus briefly on a subject related only to the social budget, namely the family compensation fund, called Flaf. This is by far the most important financing tool of Austrian family policy, since almost €7 billion is managed in the Flaf and made available for family policy measures. Now it is true that, in the past, this family compensation fund has been and will only be used and used as a condition for family-related benefits. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, there is a strong transfer to social security funds, in particular to finance pension insurance contributions for child training periods. At present, it is almost 14 percent of the total payouts of the Flaf used for these possibilities. I would like to make it clear: We are of course committed to these achievements. On the contrary, I think we have air up here. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, it should be possible to discuss whether the financing ratio of this cross-financing can be changed from the Flaf, which currently has a ratio of 75 to 25 percent, 75 percent Flaf and 25 percent Social Budget, something towards 50 to 50. It is also very clear from an 2016 Eco study that the Flaf would thus experience a corresponding relief. And, Minister, I am pleased that we will be able to discuss this issue with each other in the future. However, I would also like to address a word to the opposition – the NEOS I might like to take out here – because it is perfectly correct and clear to me that, in this budget, of course, we have different approaches, that you see a lot differently and that some things might also be financed differently. [[Abg. Scherak: Thank you!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is simply too little to say at every sub-point of the budget: There's too little money available and we need more money. This is just too little and completely inconceivable, because I tell you and I may tell you a secret: There's no such thing as him! He does not exist, the banknotes that are filled in heaven and exploited on earth. [[Abg. Wittmann: But a basket money!]] Come on. Please go to the ground of reality! We give you the hand to cooperate that we may also be able to decide on a number of things. Voices That's a good budget for you. It is the basis for a good development of the Austrian financial future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49923	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e49954	Mr Klubobmann Wöginger first meant that I could be happy as a staff representative of a large industrial company about the family bonus Plus, because, of course, the employees in my company benefit from it because of our income situation. But now I am also chairman of the GPA-djp Upper Austria and we represent many areas, including trade, the social areas, where many women – and this is not only voluntarily elected part-time – do not have the opportunity to earn so much that they can make full use of the family bonus. And that is the difference between us: on the one hand, the knowledge that personal performance is not always equal to what I can earn, and on the other hand, that all people are worth the same amount to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On consumer protection, for which I am actually responsible, I do not want to say so much. We have already heard from Mr Kolba: wonderful reproduction. By the way, Peter, it is not 1.5 million, which has been properly reported in the Committee, 50 percent of these funds up to a maximum – and we are talking about a maximum amount – 750 000 euros should be available; less than we had in recent years. If we look at what is contained in the objectives of impact here, we note that consumer protection, as in the government programme, does not play a role in this budget. If you want to implement the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act by the end of 2019, in accordance with an EU directive which has already been adopted and which is to be implemented by early January 2020, we know how ambitious you are in the field of consumer protection. Let me, however, address the issue of employment of older people! It has often been discussed here about the 20 000 action, and I would like to make this clear once again: The BIS call collection taxi has been mentioned, and this is already the topic of dignity that the former Minister of Social Affairs Stöger has addressed. You know, that's a huge difference – listen! –: You are constantly talking about strengthening rural areas. In rural areas, there are older people who simply have the right to rights. They don't always want to ask and beg for anyone to go somewhere. They just want to have the opportunity to call where, and then they will be led. They are led to the doctor, they are led to their friends. [[Abg. Gödl: That's it! There's nothing to do with the other one at all!]] There is that, and this action will no longer exist now because the 20 000 action will be stopped. That makes the difference between us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Gödl: Where are you at home?]] Now we could say: Okay, ideologically, action 20,000 is not going with you. The fact is, however, that we have older unemployed people and know that they are extremely difficult on the labour market. Then what are you doing with them? Now we know: The employment bonus plus – hui, it's very bad! We have thus made sure that people who are unemployed in Austria come into employment and not come to us people from abroad in the EU, so to speak. You have always called for this, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, but it is now being abolished. What do we do with the elderly who are long-term unemployed? What are we doing? Your answer is to open the red-and-white red card and then regionalise the shortage list. This means zero support for the elderly in our country, but we are getting cheap workers. Is this the line of the FPÖ, according to what you have represented for years? – Really great what brings you together on this topic! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just one example to show that people outside the businesses also know what you are doing: We last had with us in the company's works council election. We originally had 14 : 2, 14 red, two blue mandates, now it stands at 15 : 0. People know what's coming on them. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Why doesn't it stand 16 : 0? Recalculation error, colleague!]] I just mention the subject of part-time age: Are you crazy – can I say that? – just screw up access to the age-part-time by two years? I mean, such a thing is absolutely unsocial in the sense of trust protection. Did you get to know what that means to the women at some point? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We now have a transitional scheme for women, i.e. we will now gradually increase the retirement age from 60 to 65. At the same time, in this regulation of part-time age, you do not do anything for women, which would at least be found there. Did you think about it sometime? - No, you didn't! Finally, maybe one more thing: We have a social project for long-term unemployed. Mrs. Minister, you always say: I have money in cover and wealth. – Then please pour out this money. This “Zur Brücke” project – it’s a super project that all are in favour of long-term unemployed being in employment there – is threatened by the attitude because the AMS has no resources available. This is the reality that we encounter in the federal states. This is also the policy where, at once, the EIA politicians are running. In the region, you know at once that it would be quite, very important – here inside you vote for a completely different policy. The basic problem is that these are not real jobs for you. Quite honest: But for the people who are employed there, it feels exactly like they have a job. To conclude: You're right to prevent all of this, it takes a reasonable training. In 2019, they did not budget the funds needed to implement the training guarantee. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[13:44]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50122	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Gödl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50146	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Values of Austrians! Mr Vogl, the most unsocial on this planet, is to live at the expense of the future, and this government and our finance minister are putting it off. We want with the money that we want to achieve. It is available and we will also serve the services we need for the social state. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] My dear colleague, I would like to take up the issue of care, because it is quite possible to highlight it. About a year ago – I was still a member of the Federal Council – we had a very interesting survey on care, entitled “The Future of Care: Applicable, visible, durable’. We subsumptibly subsume several aspects, as it is possible that many in the private, family sector can also organize and provide care, because 75 percent of all care providers continue to receive care at home. We have not disputed that it is a public task to support here, at the latest in 1993, since we have introduced the care allowance with a 15a agreement among the countries and with the federal government. There are currently over 450 000 care providers throughout Austria. If you take a close look at the budget, then you see, dear SPÖ, that where there is an additional need, of course we also increase expenditure, especially in the care allowance. In 2017, we spent another 2 558 million euros, almost 2.6 billion euros, and next year we already budgeted 2.7 billion, that is, 2 702 million euros, i.e. 144 million euros, because the need for care continues to increase because of the demographic structure and changed family structures. On the one hand, it is about how families and private individuals can take care of the care, but also about how the communities and the countries can finance the care. There, too, the covenant was not inactive. In 2011, the so-called care fund was set up. In addition, a comparison number: In 2015, the Federal Government distributed EUR 295 million to the Länder and thus also to the municipalities through this care fund. Next year we will already issue 382 million euros. So, too, the Minister of Finance is taking more money in order to support the communities, because there is no doubt that this additional need has been met. It is also true of the 24-hour care. In 2015, we have provided 74 million euros to support this 24-hour service, and in 2019 it will be 112 million euros. It is therefore quite clear that it is a priority to do this area with more financial resources. 6 million euros have been available every year for hospice and palliative care. This area is also clearly better taught by the Ministry of Finance. This is also illustrated in the budget, and you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, should also recognize that. A few more words about the wealth register: Yes, there has been a gap here, and it has already been the Minister of Social Affairs Stöger, the Minister of Social Affairs, who, at the time, has found that we will have a funding gap of around 100 million euros. Now it turns out – and this is what we will have to deal with this year – that this loss of revenue will be much higher. The Minister of Finance has already begun this work. In summer it will be clear how much will be recovered to the municipalities and countries in this area, because we are in favour of reimbursing this loss of revenue entirely to the countries and communities. Of course, we have to deal with this broad topic of care in the long term. We have virtually made a change in the system with the abolition of the wealth rule: We take care quite consciously and for good reasons for this so-called social assistance logic, namely from the logic that: the state, the general public, the public hand only intervenes in a social case if you can't help yourself anymore. That's the social assistance logic. It was also the logic that if someone has wealth, he must use his assets for it. Since we have abolished this for good reasons, we must now make it clear how we finance the need for care in the long term in various forms, whether it is the care of mobile services, whether it is the 24-hour care or whether it is also the stationary care. This also requires a very great political effort, and I would now like to ask all the political groups in this House to do so: Here we need a maximum of policy and a minimum of party policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50221	The next item is Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order for people with disabilities to be able to live a self-determined and worthy life, it needs different framework conditions. This means that there is a different approach in this area than in many other areas. It needs other funding mechanisms, and they simply need more money. To live a self-determined life means to have your own income and not just to get a pocket money, because only with your own money can you fight your own life and determine it yourself. That means we need more jobs for people with disabilities. In this budget, which has only this height in this area, because in the previous year under SPÖ the inclusion package was introduced and decided, I, Mrs Minister, simply lack your handwriting. I miss the ideas of a minister, you have actually not brought any ideas into this budget. We need effective integration measures for the labour market, above all also special measures for women, as the figures here clearly show. Farms must be stopped from buying disabled persons and not permanently freed. As a positive example, I would like to point out the Chambers of Workers, which in all the federal states fulfil the obligation to do so. [[Abg. Hafenecker: As in the Lesezirkel!]] For example, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Physicians do not meet this number. How are farms to meet this number if their own representation cannot befriended by it and does not give them a good example in doing so? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: This is not a reading competition!]] If the AMS measures are further reduced, then it is again the affected people who remain. That is why we need more action here. But all of this has something to do with dignity, so that you take seriously the concerns and desires of these people. This is then a policy of reliability and predictability, a policy with legal claims and no policy with which one can quickly beat political change and appear in the headlines of the newspapers and on Facebook. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current Federal Government is not captivated by it, but by making politics against certain groups of people. However, there must not be any against the policy of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50301	The next item is the speech by Mrs Graf. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50323	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewer! The Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs, Health and Consumer Protection is responsible for 60 billion euros. This is a huge sum, and at the same time the proof that we are living solidarity and cohesion in our country, a proof of the high priority that health, pensions and social benefits have enjoyed in us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If you always strain the social cold from the SPÖ, I can only say one thing: It is not a trace of social cold, Mr Muchitsch. The image you want to generate is lacking any basis. It does not correspond to the facts and is in many ways wrong. [[Call the NEOS: Well, tell me now!]] Rather, it is today's spring-like temperatures, which are much more like our budget, which stands for the start, for the new beginning and for the Elan. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget is the basis for our policy over the next two years. I will now focus on the budget chapter of work, because in Austria we owe almost everything to the performance, commitment and work of our citizens. With all that has been worked out hard, it is important to deal with it carefully. Our budget proves this. The hard-worked tax money of all Austrians is used sparingly and not thrown out of the window with both hands. We do what the house mind tells us, what every household and every entrepreneur does with responsibility: We don't spend more than we take. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the budget chapter work, we will spend less 2018 and 2019 because we are pleased to need less money. As a result of the good economic situation, unemployment fell under the 400 000 mark in March. 398 503 unemployed mean a minus of 7.5 percent compared to March of the previous year. The decline in unemployment rates allows for more money to be spent on the promotion of individuals with less resources. We therefore do not reduce expenditure per capita, which remains equal or even increases. Instead, savings relate to promotions that do not prove sustainability, such as action 20 000. When I talk to the staff department in my company, it is hard to believe how many jobseekers report that they are not offered with targeted training or qualification from the AMS. Rather, you send this work-seeking people into a course on the subject: How do I apply correctly? This course may fit for one or another, but not for everyone, and there is a need for action. We need more safety in continuing training and their promotion. Employment seekers and employers simply need to be brought together better, quickly and, of course, via regional. It would be irresponsible to leave the funds at the same time. No cook prepares ten meals if only five guests have announced appetite. That would be pure waste. That is why our action is targeted, it relieves citizens, and this budget introduces the desired change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50378	The next item is Mrs Friedl's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50400	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the screens! Life as a consumer and as a consumer is becoming increasingly complicated and much more complex, and it therefore poses much more dangers than it used to be. In order to increase sales, the companies are constantly adopting new business and marketing strategies so that they can manipulate us – or not – in a way that does not always deal with us consumers. There is a need for more support and more information in this area for even powerful citizens, consumers and consumers. It is therefore essential to increase consumer protection in particular and to increase resources. That is why I am very, very irritated, Mrs Minister – and I was attached to your lips when you first spoke about consumer protection today – that there is nothing to be found in the government programme or in the goals of your ministry for consumer protection. You have proved that, Madam Minister, you did not answer any of our questions at the last committee meeting. There was no plan for the future, and unfortunately there is nothing in the budget either. If you have no objectives, Mrs Minister, I am very happy to help you. There's so much to do. Data protection is a massive topic for the future, so much for us. The development of debt advice is complete, urgent and necessary. We have to go out into schools, we have to inform the youth more about what can happen. However, we must also inform young people what is at stake if they consume unbridled if they give in to the all-present temptations and if they owe themselves over both ears. Because they never come out again. Many young people do not know that this not only endangers their existence, but also their partnership and, above all, their health. We are committed to this clarification. The broad topic of the Internet, which is so important to you and all of us, belongs. There is no legal certainty as to the problem of collection fees. What to Remember To do it? The topic of renting: The young people want to live, want to be able to afford the rent. We must therefore counteract the development in this area. What do you think? We also need to do more for the important work of the Internet Ombudsman, which is very, very well accepted. There we need to expand so that we can reach more people, especially young people, N. For me, particularly important – it has been mentioned several times, ladies and gentlemen – is the guarantee that the VKI remains independent, and above all that the funds are increased, because 107 000 euros, Mrs Minister, are a little bit. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] I could continue this list for a long time. There are so many hot topics that concern, above all, support for young people. Why don't you finally go on these? . I know that it takes money you didn't get, but maybe you'll go to the chancellor again and ask him, maybe he'll give you something out of the basket money. After all, he has put a lot on his side to stage himself and to apply for himself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] That's tax money, it's actually human, and it should be used for people. If people and consumers are as important to you as you said at the beginning, please do something too! Finally start with the work and don't always smile at everything! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50469	Next, Mr Fürlinger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50490	High Bureau! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! When I heard so many speeches today, I was almost inclined to walk out and take a walk through the city centre of Vienna to see a little, where the hungry, debilitating and dredging masses lie, which without any basic medical care are dying. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] And, behold, I found the flowering life. Not only the tourists are well fed, but even the local citizens who take their well - fed dogs out there are best things. Not so good things – unfortunately, Colleague Muchitsch is not in the hall – are occasionally the entrepreneurs when they make a small mistake because of forgetfulness, without the bitter intent of social fraud, immediately get from the respective CKK letters with harsh payment calls. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There has already been a Metternich’s system raised in social insurance. This is not only seen in the wage tests, it is also seen in these letters, which come here: A little mistake costs a lot. We believe that there is also a mistake and not just a intention. Their permanent assumption to all entrepreneurs that they are potential social frauds, I would like to point out to the Austrian entrepreneurship! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] These penalties, these threats of punishment and these procedures, which are allocated to businesses, are outside of any relation. I still do not want to make a small announcement on behalf of my clubman – unfortunately God is also my second highly esteemed contact and above-Austrian colleague Stöger – on behalf of my clubman: [[Abg. Belakovich: Don't do anything!]] Of course, it is true that the well thought-out care administration has been jointly decided with wonderfully sound cost estimates from the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the legislative implementation is a little ahead of itself. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Mr Loacker.]] It would have been good if we had made transitional and final provisions which we did not cooperate with, then we would not now have social assistance associations involved in some proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I can comfort you: At over 40 billion euros in social expenditure, I can tell you that we will find flowering landscapes here in two, three and four years. – I wish you a nice day.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50553	The next item is Mr Kollross's speech. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50574	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values listeners in the gallery as well as in front of the televisions! Mr Fürlinger, only for your information: It was not decided by the care administration, but by the abolition of it. Perhaps, or probably, this was just a Freud’s promise, because in autumn you would rather decide to take care of it than to abolish it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] To take care – unfortunately, Mr. Wöginger is not in the hall –: This was a very nice speech by Mr Klubobmann Wöginger, whom I would like to support and underline as the mayor and municipal spokesman of the SPÖ, but I do not know whether it is true. He has held firm and promised here high and holy that there will in no way be a burden on the congregations and the countries as regards the abolition of the care rules. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not here either, because somehow the whole thing does not fit in: On the one hand, Mr Wöginger promises high and holy that the municipalities and countries will not be burdened, and on the other hand, the Minister of Finance budgets just EUR 100 million for the failure of the care regime. Now you can discuss whether it is 400 million euros, 500 million euros or 600 million euros, you don't know that very well, there are different estimates, but one thing you know very well: 100 million euros are in no way related to the costs incurred by the abolition of the care regime. That is why I would like to ask that Mr Wöginger and the Minister of Finance perhaps give us some thought to how it works, that we budget 100 million euros and say that the countries and communities should not be burdened but at the same time do not say how it works. [[Abg. Belakovich: Vortanzen? What are you doing?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich: But you were there, you agreed!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] As I said, I am mayor, I also have to create a budget every year, but I have to tell you quite honestly: If I make a budget from home so that I know I have to spend something, but don't budget it, then I have very, very quickly the congregation supervision on the neck. It won't work. I wonder how this works on the part of the Minister of Finance, that he knows – or supposedly knows – that something has to be spent here, namely 400 million euros or 500 million euros, according to Klubobmann Wöginger, but he has budgeted only 100 million euros. Or was we presented with a budget that is not true from the house? It can't be otherwise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich.]] A budget has been presented here from the house, which, if that is true, Mr Wöginger says, is that the municipalities and the countries are not asked to cash out. Actually, I wanted to say something about consumer protection, Mrs Minister, but unfortunately now I have not come to it anymore, the time has passed quickly. I am very concerned about this issue of care rules, especially as mayor, because I do not want to come to the handcushion either. Therefore, I would like to ask that sometimes there be an information on how this should be financed if there is no money in the budget for it, but at the same time, Mr Wöginger says that the countries and the municipalities should not finance it. Then only those affected can pay. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50648	Next, Mr Weidinger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50670	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In the first place, I would like to say the following: The Federal Minister is very busy, including in the field of consumer protection. We are in a constant and good dialogue, in which it repeatedly emphasizes from its side how important it is to bring about an improvement. I would like to thank you very much for this commitment, Mrs Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] When we talk about consumer protection, ladies and gentlemen, it is of particular importance to us that we also put this into a proper overall social context. As legislators, we have responsibility for our society and for how it is organized. We are also measured by the quality of our laws, by the number and extent of services provided by the state and the private sector, and above all by the degree of freedom that prevails in our society. That's why you have to be very clear about this: In Austria, there must never be American conditions, namely that US lawyers in their typical manners with process financiers of our small and medium-sized economy and the pillars of our economy are on the table, leaving many achievements that we need in Austria in order to secure prosperity and create jobs. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This means in the same breath that we need very clear rules on how we work together in our economy and in consumer protection, because it is in the interest of both the economy and the citizens that there are clear rules for playing. The budget, which has been mentioned many times today, of course has many positions on the issue of consulting, because it is necessary to provide people of all generations with information, on the one hand, via the Internet Ombudsman, via the Watchlist Internet, or through many out-of-court dispute resolution bodies that are necessary. I would also like to bring you, ladies and gentlemen, a completely new, controversial approach to consumer protection. It is not always about regulating and burdening our citizens. That is why I can present to you a parliamentary question, which I put in a joint initiative with colleagues Wurm, colleagues Kühberger and colleagues at infrastructure minister Hofer, which concerns the digital vignette. The vignette can also be bought in digital form, which is very popular and is accepted by many people. This digital vignette has only a big disadvantage: It shall not apply until 18 days after the purchase, because of the right of withdrawal for consumer protection reasons and the four-day delivery period of the post. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that we must also intensify our efforts, because it is of interest to citizens, especially when they buy a digital vignette on the Internet, that it is valid and can be used. I would like to express my great support for this by the Minister for Infrastructure. I think we will have proposals to make here in the House in order to eliminate this abuse. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like to thank you once again for your commitment, Mrs Federal Minister, also in the field of consumer protection. Good luck! – Let us decide together on this important budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50743	Next, Mr Kühberger. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50764	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Austrians! I agree with the statement made by our consumer protection spokesman Peter Weidinger, because the resources of the detailed budget UG 21 are within the competence of our Federal Minister Mag. Beate Hartinger-Kleinand guarantee full action in the sense of consumer protection. We take this broad issue very seriously, with a focus on adequate, balanced consumer protection at all levels. We have also written this down in the government programme with clear objectives, and we also want to develop it further. Consumer protection should not be self-evident, because in recent years it has been almost like that. Consumer protection has taken a measure that is no longer directly effective for consumers. Customers need to get around with page-long information, and entrepreneurs need to be legally informed about information in all directions. Therefore, all consumer protection provisions should be evaluated for their effectiveness. Simple, easy-to-understand and unbureaucratic regulations should ultimately be the goal. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to take advantage of something very special, because this is also a personal concern to me, the food labelling of origin. Ensuring a diet with healthy foods is our political debt. Of course, we want to meet this duty. Transparency is a consumer law and the basis for a free consumer decision. However, transparency is also a protection against error. Of course, it also needs food and consumer education for all consumers, including our young people and our children. I would like to give an example here: 68 percent of the Austrians surveyed consider it necessary that there be mandatory labelling of the origin of ingredients and ingredients in the out-of-house consumption – currently collected by the Opinion Research Institute GfK-Austria. Clear labelling provides protection against false purchase decisions. It is a win-win situation, namely, for honest, fair domestic production, on the one hand, for the consumer, who is no longer supplied with ignorance and can opt for something – for genetic engineering freedom, for animal welfare, for fair working conditions and for regional agricultural food. This too is consumer protection. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] 14. 14
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50822	Next, Mr Hammer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50843	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Finally, on the subject of the budget relating to work and social affairs, I can only say a few things to my group. It is, of course, so to be expected, as was the case with the other chapters, that we have presented a well-informed budget, that many measures are being taken, but of course the opposition is trying to talk small and poor through false and false representations. One thing is already evident, and I would particularly like to point this out to my colleagues from the SPÖ: What distinguishes the social policy we are now making in the new Federal Government from the one you have been responsible for? – Social – I want to focus on the labour market – is, in our view, primarily what creates work and brings people into employment. That is why we are making targeted measures to get people into employment, which on the other hand also generates tax revenue and releases funds that can in turn be used for the social system. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We are thinking specifically of what measures this employment can achieve – through economic promotion, through investment in the labour market. We are thinking about it, unlike in the past, when it came to distributing or distributing something, and there is little thought about who makes it and how it is achieved. So we are thinking about how it will be achieved, and we will see that these funds are also used efficiently. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Three key points of our social policy are: First: People are only helped by those social benefits that really come and develop effect. We see whether our actions actually produce effects. Measures such as action 20 000, which we have not seen as efficient, we are going back and taking measures that are also effective. This is a principle of our labour market policy. We see that the social system – and this is also important, because it should always be fair – is becoming more effective and that social benefits are used precisely by those people they need. That is why we are also taking measures, such as in the case of minimum security. Of course, a very essential point is that we see that we also relieve those who pay into the tax system and thus into the social system, for example with the family bonus or also with the reduction of the unemployment insurance contribution. We also invest in specific target groups on the labour market. I would particularly like to mention the inclusion package for people with disabilities, where we are really taking decisive measures. All in all, then, this is a very good budget for employment and social affairs. Finally, one sentence – one has to say it again and again, unfortunately, because the colleagues from the SPÖ are doing child-moving here –: At that time the Social Minister, Alois Stöger, it was the one who instilled in us communities and countries the 100 million euros that are too few. At the time, he wrote the EUR 100 million in the legislative cost assessment. That was the insanity, and Alois Stäger has to answer for it. We will now see that we fix this, in the sense of the countries and communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50916	There are now no more words available, so the discussions on this subject have ended. [[14:18:23]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50938	We are now coming to the negotiations on sub-division 24: Health. Mrs Rendi-Wagner. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e50962	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at the current health budget, the so-called UG 24, I wonder a little like you, Mrs Bundesminister, so that the future, the new challenges in the health system will be met successfully. I see little visible priorities in the budget, few ambitions and almost no vision. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that in the years 2018 and 2019, despite a very good economic situation and economic development, there will not be a cent more budget for the health system. Why is that? – That is clearly why, in this area too, play money had to be released for chancellors and vice chancellors, namely, in sum, as you all know, 66 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, what you could have done more in the health budget at 66 million euros is very much. [[Abg. Nehammer: This is already an old leader, a hundred times disproved!]] You could have done this, Mrs. Federal Minister, for the health of our children, for example: For example, they could have introduced the Free Meningococcal B vaccination for all our infants in Austria, thus effectively protecting all Austrian infants from high-contagious bacterial brain inflammation. They would have been able to introduce the long-awaited and planned electronic vaccination – a highly effective instrument to increase the low vaccination rates in Austria and finally close the vaccines in the population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Povysil: He's coming!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Yes, we need that urgently!]] With this money, with this grain money from chancellors and vice chancellors, you could also have made sure that the healthy nutrition of schools and kindergartens in Austria finally became reality. If we are talking about money, many people in this country have been wondering in the last few days and weeks how to get 500 million euros out of the health system, from the General accident insurance institution. Why do you want to do that? – To give this money apparently corporations and large companies. The ambition of a minister of health in a country should rather be to ensure that as much money as possible is available for the necessary health care in a country, no less! It's obvious. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What do you say to the Austrians about how AUVA should save half a billion without reducing benefits without closing its six accident hospitals and saving rehabilitation centers? What do you say to the workers of this country who feel their personal risk of accident in their own bodies every day during their hard work? And what do you say to 6 000 employees of AUVA – highly qualified, highly trained accident surgeons, physicalists, nurses, anesthesiists who are doing excellent, internationally respected work there day and night – who have an uncertain future ahead of you and this discussion? [[Abg. New builder: Stay like this!]] – You say exactly: Everything's gonna stay right! [[Abg. Neubauer: It's getting better!]] I've listened to you very well, you even say: Everything's getting better! But I honestly tell you, it's almost like I'm saying to my little daughter: From tomorrow you'll get half the daily money, but don't worry, you can still buy two Jolly more! This doesn't take my little daughter away from me, and she's not right to take it away from me. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: What if I don't like Jolly?]] I assume that all the experts you received yesterday in the AUVA Round Table, as I read, together with Vice Chancellor Strache, have said more or less the same thing. And for this very reason, I would like to make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Federal Minister! People are insecure – keyword :AUVA, keyword: No smoking, keyword: Elga data. [[Abg. New builder: Because you're insecure!]] [[Abg. Haider:... No smoking!]] What I really don't understand – and that's what I tell you personally – is that in the last weeks and months, it has always been the health and it's the game ball in the coalition. Please don't let that happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's really easy: All the people in this country want is to stay healthy and know that in the event of illness in our country they are well, yes, well cared for. That's exactly what, Mrs. Federal Minister, is in your hand. That's exactly what you're responsible for. I therefore appeal to you: Finally, start being Minister of Health. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: (in the direction of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner) Was that the farewell speech?]] [[Abg. Rädler: Go to Vienna!]] [[14:24]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51214	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled, which is sufficiently supported, is under negotiation. The next item is Mrs Povysil. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51244	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary, in the gallery and those who follow the meeting on the various media! I am very glad to be able to speak after my colleague today, because I have to clarify some things. It is now not very popular to make the health care fit for the future and secure it permanently. It is not popular to change where the benefits are not immediately apparent. If it were popular, I'd say to you now: We have the best health system in the world, you get all the services, at any time, everyone! They would be calmed – and it would be lying. Ladies and gentlemen! Socio-democratic former city councillor Sonja Wehsely already questioned in 2013 the sensuality of 22 social security funds. [[Abg. New builder: I don't believe that!]] - Yes, it's true! [[Abg. Neubauer: Who says that?]] Former Minister Alois Stöger – he is currently not in space – commissioned a study on the reform of social security at the London School of Economics. The Federal Court of Auditors has also seen the need for action here. All of this was initiated, then it was silence. The sheath of oblivion spread over many initiatives already launched. There was a choice, the government changed, the Social Democrats went into opposition, and suddenly they forgot everything they had previously initiated. – It is now about demolition, it is about destruction, it is about populism pure, ladies and gentlemen. [[call to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Erasim: Speak of something where you know yourself!]] What do we want? – We want a modern, transparent, slim, efficient social security structure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want a catalogue of services adapted to modern medicine. We want a harmonisation of services where it is necessary. We want the same services for the same contributions throughout Austria, where it is necessary. It cannot be that a cancer patient is no longer treated in Salzburg or in another federal state and is sent to another federal state in this small Austria, because only there is the necessary treatment available. It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, that today a citizen has to pay in five insurances – I'm an example – no longer has an overview of his achievements at all, and then he may be able to get these benefits back when he's overpaid – but decades later. It's impossible, it can't be. We're trying to fix this. Here, although unpopularly unpopularly, system changes have to take place, even though this, ladies and gentlemen, means loss of power, even though this is a massive fight against the opposition, for it is fighting what it has not been able to do for years and has failed to do. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The mentioned Stäger study of the London School of Economics also foresees an organisational change of AUVA. Now, suddenly, no one knows anything about it anymore. All of a sudden, we've got AUVA's guards here. Everything that was before was forgotten and patients are being insecured. You already have to know that 150 posts have been created in the administration of AUVA over the past ten years for administrative officials – and there has not been a single doctor in addition. We already need to know that there are 16 Directors-General – in one of the main and four national offices. You also need to know that AUVA has speculated 30 million euros. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Chancellors, Deputy Chancellors and Federal Minister have guaranteed: There are no accident hospitals closed! Even if you don't want to hear: There are no accident hospitals closed! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However – and there you have to understand something about modern medicine –: Of course, you work in centres today and of course you need to build up trauma centres, of course there are examples such as - - - fully unqualified reporting from sides of social democracy, as always. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The whole government is a trauma center!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's not why he's going to be mayor!]] [[Abg. Erasim: (in the direction of Abg. Hafenecker) Thank you for the qualified message!]] In any case, you have to work in team education, in centers, because this is important for modern medicine. This makes sense and even makes sense, according to a concept – I would not even say a volume of savings, but I would say a financial volume – a financial volume of 150 million euros is released. An example from Upper Austria: We had a small, highly specialized and also really excellent combustion unit. Unfortunately, due to a wave of retirement – doctors went into retirement – and the incredible financial volume at a combustion unit, we had to give up this combustion station. Now we have two centres in Austria where patients are sent to – one in Graz and one in Vienna. You can even consider whether one or two are necessary in Austria. No patient takes damage, but the supply is highly qualified and financially viable there. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In view of these facts, ladies and gentlemen, it is embarrassing that the Socialists of our Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs are accused of personal revenge on the part of AUVA. Mrs. Rotraud Perner replied in the press. She took the word projection from the psychoanalysis and answered with a Bible quote: “Why do you see the splitter in your brother’s eye, but you don’t notice the beam in your own?” – Because it’s just about one thing: about personal political discreditation! This may seem to be popular, but grossly bad policy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Popular medicine is mainly thought of populus, the people. What is important to the citizen? – It is important for him to be able to take advantage of the doctor’s trust and to find his services as soon as possible, namely those he needs. Nearly 60 percent of doctors retire until 2025. This is in seven years, where we all still live – so God wants. Fewer and fewer young doctors want to become general physicians, as they shy the professional pressure and responsibility around the clock. And these young physicians will now be able to get to know their work in the ordinations with their colleagues who have been working for many years and thus become familiar with the subject area. The funding of teaching practices is now EUR 12 million per year. This is an eternal demand from us, which was implemented by the Federal Minister – a success – after many years of struggle. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must think in medicine in new standards. We live in the age of e-, electronic data processing. This opens up huge opportunities, but of course it also poses dangers. I quote our Federal Minister of Agriculture of the 11th century. April: ‘There will definitely be no release of ELGA data [...] on the sides of the Ministry.’ We are aware of the dangers, but we are also aware of the opportunities. What are the electronic possibilities that are already being initiated in the Federal Ministry? – There would be the electronic vaccination, the e-card, which is now unnecessarily secured, as it will be equipped with a photo, the e-medicine, the interaction between the medications, and where doctors will receive an investment fee. All this is happening in the years 2018 and 2019. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, the electrons get the right spin, leave their slow energy level, energy becomes free and the system finally moves. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] Due to this anonymous health data, the medicine can be revolutionized within the framework of artificial intelligence. I'll talk about this one another time. I reached the end of my speaking time. Perhaps our policy is not always obviously popular, but it is credible, acting responsibly and is forward-looking. Go with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51422	The next item is the speech by Mr Loacker. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51443	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! In advance, I would like to say that a very effective measure in the sense of health would not have cost anything, namely the ban on smoking. This would not have occurred in the budget at all. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] [[Bravoruf at SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Otherwise, the reproach with which the population is presented at the nose ring also passes through the health budget. For example, as colleague Povysil has said, social fraud is to be combated by taking a photo on the e-card. Now, however, the experts of the topic know that the photo on the e-card costs more than the entire fraud with the card causes any damage. [[Abg. Kumpitsch: It's fraud!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Fraud is fraud!]] But it can be sold so nice. That's a nice sales hat, that's what this government likes. However, there is a lack of money to join, for example, the official doctors and the school doctors in Elga. The money is missing for the rapid implementation of the electronic vaccination card. That is how it looks with the digitization that is always sold to us. Digitalization is so great, but it doesn't come around. If you wanted to, the system would access the photos that are already stored at the county administration office as soon as you're in the e-card. Then the photo would appear, and you wouldn't have to fix it on the map. But you have decided to use a method from the 1990s and apply the photo on the map. – Sales mutilation. The government has also attached itself to the flags: Debureaucratisation and discharge. But nothing happens in this respect either. The media like to take over the story, but the facts look different. The medical device levy is 1.1 million euros a year. But the collection costs more than it does. However, the levy is still preserved. The daily “The Press” calls it “Austria’s most absurd tax”. So much about discharge and debureaucratisation. – Sales mutilation. The pharmaceutical levy, which only pays for Austrian pharmacies that do not pay foreign shipping pharmacies, is even extended, which should have ended at the end of 2018. Of course, the domestic economy can also be targeted at cutting-off bureaucrats. You're doing a wonderful job. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Pilz list.]] Now, to control the complex Austrian health care from the Ministry of Health is, of course, an extremely difficult task. But there's a few levers you could put on. However, the budget does not show any signs of being set up there. Hebel one would be the Federal Health Agency to control the nine national health funds and thus the hospitals. Instead of distributing the funds according to measurable criteria, work continues to be done in the same way as before, with politically agreed percentages, according to which everything is further paid. Hebel two would be the Gesundheit Österreich GmbH. The Austrian structure plan for health and regional health structures could provide a better target for the countries and take them a little more closely to the kandare. Hebel three would be prevention work, but at EUR 69 million, we will not reach much in the billions of difficult health issues either. In total, the Ministry of Health continues to be a harmless player in the money distribution machine of the Austrian health system. Now on social security: Social security is to be reformed. Sebastian Kurz has already drummed in the election campaign that 21 social security institutions are too much. Yes, that's right, but why do I start with accident insurance immediately and worry about the really difficult question of the 18 health insurance companies and 15 health care institutions? If you, Mrs. Minister, start at the accident insurance institution, where there would be a lot of potential to raise, then have You managed to keep your concept successfully secret so far. In the case of health insurance companies – there is a little bit ingested – you want to receive an Austrian health insurance fund via the nine local health telephones, i.e. an additional level of administration. This is clear because in this system of fees and posts the liberal partygoers also have to be provided with appropriate positions. There could be an additional ÖKK quite admirable. Thus, the announced reform of social security funds is probably a reproach from the propaganda machine of short and straight. – Very bad!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51520	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schwarz. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51541	Madam President, Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have had many discussions with representatives of chambers, organizations, institutions, associations and associations over the past few weeks. What was given me along the way was always that a lot is already on the way, but little finalized. We have taken action to really bring things in the field of health professions, the medical profession, the therapy, the caring hands to a good solution. I'm in favour of a solidary health system. This means that we also pay attention to those who are not good-earners who are no longer mobile and who are no longer young, but also to the boys. I am trying to fix this to some practical examples. I accompanied my oldest and best friend for 16 months, from the day of diagnosis ovarian cancer until she died, and that was exactly the day after her 55. birthday. In these months between hospital, outpatient treatments, chemotherapy, oncological reha, back to hospital, until the last days at the palliative station, it was important to her and her two very brave daughters that they always knew well cared for. Of course, we share this concern, because no matter how much income, which sex, what profession, what age: It must be ensured that people who are not well in Austria will be helped at the highest medical level. That's what this health budget stands for. I would like to thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If you are moving in such an extreme situation, but also in the normal case of illness, you expect answers from us, from those who make health policy, to the questions: What are the next steps? For example, how do I get a wig as an onco patient? How's the rehab? Who cares for me psychosocially? What options do I have for lymphdrainage et cetera? – Hundreds of questions that arise are answered by doctors, specialists, nurses, all those who do extremely important work in our health system. Thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to give a practical example of research. I was one of the first Borreliosis patients in Austria 30 years ago, expressed by a fazialisparesis; this is a facial paralysis. I had these eight months. At that time the diagnosis was difficult and also the therapy. That means I spent eight months in fear because I didn't know if I could still practice my profession. Many questions that have been raised by me have primarily answered my family doctor. I believe that domestic doctors are the environment and health policy. The established doctors are first contact persons, and they accompany us from the first moment of life to the end. What the patients at my home doctor in St. Georgen – this is a part of Eisenstadt – want is that she has time; and that is what my doctor wishes. That is, I would be very pleased if we put it up as soon as possible that doctors can hire doctors to ensure that waiting times in the waiting rooms are reduced and more patients can enjoy more time with their domestic doctors. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A goal as well as many other goals – I do it briefly now –: I was a team player for a lifetime. I hope that this will go as well with the ministry, and I expect all those who have something to do not always to say what is not going on, but I want to know how it is or how it could at least go. I am looking forward to working together in the service of all those who need our help in Austria. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51613	Next item is the report by Mr Kolba. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51635	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, about 1.5 million people suffer from chronic pain – and this is a statement from the specialist society for pain medicine. We need to keep in mind: There are 1.5 million who suffer from the pain, but they also have Families, they have children, there are many, much more people affected, caring relatives, children, where father or mother are disabled, up to workmates who may have to compensate for illness. The pain physicians rightly complain that there are far too few pain centres in Austria, namely pain centres in which patients are fully cared for, where they not only receive medications, but where psychotherapy is offered from a single source, by a team, also by physiotherapy, ergotherapy, acupuncture, all the other measures that can only work in the package, and ultimately also the exchange with other pain patients. I don't want to know exactly how many patients in Austria get no help or are fed with medication. This is, of course, a very good business for the pharmaceutical industry: If someone has chronic pain, he will usually have to take corresponding medications until his end of life. It should also not be underestimated how many patients, if they want to take advantage of such a team service, so turn to a pain centre, actually accommodate election doctors, have to pre-finance these costs themselves, and then get a rather ridiculous amount replaced by the health insurance fund. The pain physicians point to the situation in Germany in full envy. In Germany, there is a much closer network of pain centres that can care for pain patients accordingly. Minister! You said in the Budget Committee that you were talking to the medical specialists. That's good, but it's also clear: It cannot stay in the course of discussions, but it will be necessary to improve the situation here, to develop concepts, and finally to take money into consideration. A similar theme is the topic of care. It's related to it and it's perhaps even bigger. The abolition of the care rule alone basically leads to a dilemma, namely: More people want to be in homes, and these homes are in truth not available, at least not at present. That means that it must also be our goal that we can offer people an age in dignity and, above all, in their own four walls. To this end, mobile care services need to be upgraded, and I believe that there is a fundamental reform of the 24-hour care system. This market for people in need of care is a completely intruding, even controls are usually country-related. That is, it would be, I think, to think that one - I am saying so now - is to set up a Federal Care Agency, where you get first transparent information if you need it. It often occurs very suddenly, for example, that a parent comes into a state where one says he has to be cared for now. I think it would be helpful if you had a point of contact, where you know I was first mentioned the possibilities available there. I know that the Consumer Information Association has a lot of competence in this area in recent years. At the time, we were dealing with the home contracts on the one hand, but also with the 24-hour care agencies on the other. I would very much like to set up such a post. Finally, I would like to tell you – and this is an appeal to this government – that you are talking about security and understand security in my opinion too closely as a rider. He's got a season and a slippery state. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] I believe that security for people in this country means that they can trust that they can grow old after a working life in dignity and good care. This is security, and I would ask you to make more efforts to do so than to compete for equestrians and the like. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51707	Mrs Hartinger-Klein spoke next time. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e51728	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Health concerns all of us. If we have them, we are grateful and happy. If we are sick, we are grateful that we have facilities that we have professional groups such as doctors, nursing staff et cetera, who help us, who may heal us who at least give us a certain quality of life. This challenge for our health system is a very responsible and a very large one. As Minister of Health, I support the fact that people in our country who need the health system can use it effectively that the appropriate quality exists, that the professional groups they need are present, that they do not have waiting times, and that they get medical standards that are known worldwide, and nothing else. So I want everyone to get what they need in health care. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, I would first like to talk about health promotion and prevention, because this is also a very serious concern to me and that has actually been somewhat lacking in the debate. Here we will sum up all the resources that support such a goal. If you are addressing me to the direct effect of my plans – I was asked – on people, let me say that increased information, a strengthening of decision-making freedom, but also an increase in self-responsibility in my health care is a priority. We will therefore support projects that support people. These include precautions in order to allow the individual to determine his health status at low levels and thus to be able to respond optimally to his individual starting situation in person. And yes, breast cancer screening is also an important part of the overall system for me. The self-designation of personal health care is for me the support of a working relationship and for each other. Therefore, you will also see that we will fulfill our promises and promises and give incentives and support to smoking prevention and smoking weaning, especially among young people. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Self-reliance for one's own health, for one's own family and for one's environment means to me that I am opposed to a vaccination obligation for all, and that I want to inform citizens about the real advantages, risks and benefits and thus enable every citizen and every citizen to make a free and conscious decision. A promotion of the Free Imprisonment Programme is just as much like an advertising measure and a comprehensive information management. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Only there, ladies and gentlemen, where there is a massive risk of the spread of infectious diseases and where the individual is unable to protect himself meaningfully will we take legal action. This, according to our government programme, concerns health professionals in particular. The vaccination status of a person is currently mostly incomplete or not fully documented in Austria. In part, the documentation is lost. A reason for the loss or incompleteness can be found, among other things, in the parallel collection of the data. The long intervals for fresh vaccinations also favour the non-finding of the paper-bound vaccination. Moreover, paper-bound documentation generally poses a risk of loss; it is likely some of you do. The addition of the paper-bound vaccination card to an electronic vaccination card, the so-called E-Vaccine, or the conversion to a complete electronic system is a much-treated topic in the health sector. At both national and international level, stakeholders want to implement an electronic vaccination data system in Austria. Documents such as the Digital Roadmap on the target control agreement are expected to be implemented soon, and I will be committed to that. If you think of calorie-conscious nutrition – even this has already been cracked briefly today – this is directly related to the growing lack of exercise. This not only leads to overweight, but also causes and worsens many civil diseases. That is why the Vice-Chancellor and I are launching a campaign to promote movement for all ages and for all citizens. We want to motivate and show how important and good movement and sport are, and hope for a national shoulder closure, especially here in the National Council. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, the interests of gender medicine also fall into the weight, where we will continue to expand the achievements so far and will provide more information and support for all. Initiatives will take a significant place in my department in order to cover and resolve the problems of gender health in a holistic, comprehensive and targeted manner. The mother-child pass is a success project and stands for the good supply landscape in Austria. Nevertheless, he has come into years and, without wanting to do anything bad, adaptations are urgently necessary. A project of evaluation has been running in my department since 2010. In 2014, there was an official kickoff, and nevertheless, after seven long years, there has been no end result yet. In autumn there is one, Mrs Rendi-Wagner! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] With my start of office, I have prioritized the project in the sense of mothers and babies, and we will present you with concrete results in autumn. In addition – further developed – the youth passport, which will raise the care of young people to the same level. Thus we will provide a health benefit for our children and also for the future when they are adults. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now I come to a subject where I am also very happy that we have achieved a milestone, namely teaching practice. In terms of teaching practice, I have already been able to record a great success. By reforming the medical training research as of 1.6.2015, the completion of a teaching practice following the so-called hospital gym became mandatory in order to apply the knowledge acquired in the hospital to the patients in the individual ordinations of the teachers. After decades of the not-ending discussion, I have now succeeded in moving all players to an agreement. Until now, the funding of teaching practices was only the responsibility of the federal government. As a result of the change in the system of medical training, it was necessary to bring social security, the countries and the Chamber of Physicians into the boat as a system partner. In the interests of patients, the high requirements of the teacher guarantee quality assurance for this training step. At the same time, however, the principle of professional professions, according to which professionals themselves train their young people, is also taken into account. Further: The creation initiative to strengthen primary care is also aimed at creating an environment that encourages the establishment of primary supply units and provides the basis for a longer-term upgrading of primary supply. To this end, my department has developed a project plan which will also serve as a basis for submitting the project to the European Commission. In principle, the project aims to provide healthcare service providers who intend to set up primary supply units, or are already in the founding phase, with a range of support. In terms of content, mainly legal and organisational issues, the supply concept and the area of financing and funding related to the establishment of primary supply units should be covered. Now on the topic of Elga: On the current discussion on the sharing of the data, I can tell you that from my point of view – Mrs Povysil has already said – there is definitely no release. As well as the judicial data and the criminal register, Elga data must also be excluded from the Research Organisation Act. Health data are among the most important and sensitive data. These are to be protected, and for that I stand. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] As announced in the government programme, the e-card is being further developed as a key to paperless processes. To protect against misuse, the photo comes on the e-card – the costs for it are lower than those caused by abuse, Mr. Loacker! It is gratifying to note that, due to the large number of veterinary reduction measures over the past few years, there has been a significant savings in antibiotic use. Against the background of a constantly critical resistance to antimicrobial agents, there is still the need to take appropriate countermeasures. There is a need for careful handling of medicinal products both in the human and veterinary sectors, and, of course, in the case of antibiotics in particular. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now on the topic of AUVA: Ladies and gentlemen, the AUVA has not deserved to become a political gameball – and that is what you do. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[towards SPÖ]] I have said this very clearly and clearly several times: Mrs Rendi-Wagner, there are seven accident hospitals, not six! [[Abg. Singer: A sunny creature!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] - You said six. It's sad enough that you don't know it's seven. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] All attempts to make political capital out of it in the run-up to the Salzburg elections are insecure patients and employees of the accident hospitals and are exclusively – exclusively! – politically motivated. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bacher.]] You can take me by word: We invest in services and detach multi-track organizational forms. We invest in medical services, in trauma centers. That's the state of the specialist companies, that's our goal! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we start reforms, then it is only about reducing bureaucracy and reducing obstacles to access to services for patients, to eliminate double liquefaction, to flattening hierarchies and to increase efficiency in the system. We have good medical care in Austria in international comparison, but there is still need for improvement. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I and the entire government guarantee that it is by no means – by any means! – there will be a reduction in performance for the patient, for there must be only one winner in the reforms, and that is the patient, the taxpayer, the insured person, the person in our country. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Worm: Exactly!]] At the very top of our health system, it is always only about privileges and care posts; I have experienced this myself in the main association. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] We therefore want less administrative bacon and a future-fit health care. Everyone will understand that it is absurd to finance more than 20 health insurance institutions in Austria with different performance systems and twenty administrative systems. [[Calls and countercalls between Mr Bacher and Mr Worm.]] There is currently a difficult access to the health system due to a lack of doctors in the areas in question, both general and specialist doctors, and a two-class medicine with partly unacceptable waiting times. If doctors are granted up to 40 percent of their daily work with administration, then something is not working properly! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tashner.]] I am very clear to you what we expect from AUVA: We expect an organisational slimming of the headquarters, a reduction in the direction of departments and the aggregation of departments, and a prevention of multiple liquefactions in the facilities to ensure efficient, uniform management. [[Abg. Höbart: The administrative bacon must be gone!]] Effective IT systems alone could save millions of money within AUVA. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] We expect further expansion of the cooperation with other health insurance companies, as is already the case in some cases. In Vienna, for example, there is a main office and a national office – a parade example of unnecessary waste of money and the politics of the arts industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bacher.]] [[Abg. Höbart: The administrative bacon must be gone!]] As has already been said, there is a study by the London School of Economics, which cost at least 630 000 euros. It also provides for an organisational change of AUVA. [[Abg. Stäger: Mrs Federal Minister, read! Read!]] The SPÖ and its officials are now stealing from responsibility and pretending to be the guardians of the system. [[Abg. Stäger: Mrs Federal Minister, read! Read!]] Mr Stöger, perhaps Mr Dragaschnig will tell you something. He once worked in the main association and published an article in the Festschrift on the occasion of 100 years of Austrian social security – Dragaschnig has belonged to your group; I suppose you know this – I may quote from it: Younger and more modern systems miss an independent accident insurance, as a result of the recognition that the right to benefit from accident insurance is largely overshadowing that of health insurance and that of pension insurance. Not to the full extent of this overlap, but in the substantial area, there is a double supply. In a functional way, therefore, the structure and its own accident insurance organisation do not meet imperative social needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's what your colleague Dragaschnig says. [[Abg. Back: 1988!]] This is from the Festschrift on the occasion of 100 years of Austrian social insurance. Many will find it absurd that there are 16 Directors-General and Directors at the main office and four national offices in AUVA. In the main office alone, there are 20 departments and staff posts – other social insurance companies, which are triples, come out in relation with much less – and while the staff level in the medical field has remained the same in the last ten years, the administration has been bloated with another 150 people. That is to say, it is high time for reforms and not fruitification. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] The government programme also provides for far-reaching harmonisation of services in the health sector in the sense of justice and at the same time a reduction in the number of carriers. [[Abg. Höbart: SPÖ is not reformable!]] The narrowing of social security structures will be one of the major reform projects of this federal government and also of me, because the citizens of our country have a right to be dealt with efficiently and effectively as a contributor to the health system, whether through taxes or social security contributions. We don't want bed or a two-class medicine, no more than overcrowded ambulances and unreasonable waiting times, because we're talking about fairness and efficiency.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52055	Mr Kaniak is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52076	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! I hope we can now take a look at the situation in our health system in peace. It offers low level and equivalent access for all insured and it brings good performance, but unfortunately God at very high cost. That is, our population, our insured people are generally well cared for, but they are caused by fragmentation, fragmentation in the structures of responsibility and also in the financing of high costs. On top of all, we are still very spitasty, i.e. too many treatments are carried out in too high-quality facilities such as hospitals and hospitals. In order to achieve this state-of-the-art analysis, I do not think it would have been necessary to pay EUR 630 000 to the London School of Economics, we could have just come back to the European Union’s “country Profile Health 2017” where the same findings were made. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Our Federal Government and the Federal Minister for Health have undertaken to keep quality in our health system not only but also to further improve over the next few years and to increase the efficiency of the funds used. But what means are we even talking about? I would like to give you a brief outline so that you can estimate the sizes. Public health expenditure in 2016 amounted to EUR 29 billion, the total budget for social health insurance amounted to around EUR 18, now almost EUR 19 billion, and the total budget for health in the federal budget in the current year, 2018, amounts to EUR 1,086 billion. – Mrs Rendi-Wagner, correcting your statement: Compared to 2017, this corresponds to an increase of 21.3 million euros, which is well 2 percent. I wouldn't say that's nothing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] We want to achieve efficiency improvements in our health system, and if you now rely on the study of the London School of Economics and look at it, then you have to say that this study says that we can only achieve a potential of 600 to 800 million euros per year by reforming social security. This money, Mrs Colleague, we want to use for more services in the patient, and we want to spend less money on administration and management posts. We will put people at the centre of our system again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the same time, we will continue to increase quality in our health system. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: Measures to digitise health care are under way. Elga will be completed by 2019, we have decided on the electronic vaccination, and there will be other measures such as e-medication in the field of e-Health. We will also ensure greater safety in drug therapy, both in hospitals and primary care units through the establishment of clinical pharmaceuticals as well as at home for people who have to take very many medicines at the same time and suffer from unforeseen changes and side effects. We will fix this in the context of medication management for polypharmacia. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] Clearly, the established area needs to be strengthened if we are to bring benefits from the expensive hospital area to the patient in the settled area. EUR 200 million is intended as a start-up funding for primary supply units. I'm asking: What do these 200 million euros bring us, what does this shift to primary supply units bring us? – It means that every insured patient, every patient, can take advantage of health care faster and closer, that we have longer opening hours for the patients, that through interdisciplinary cooperation we have a higher quality in the care. That'll bring it all. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Also with regard to the post-occupying of rural medical coordinations: The employment of doctors by doctors will not only facilitate the establishment of group practices, but it will also be easier for two or even three doctors to join together and a jobless country doctor office to resume a checkout office so that the supply in the rural area remains preserved. [[Congratulations and bravado with the FPÖ as well as congratulation with representatives of the ÖVP.]] We will also ensure that our patients get better in the health system. We will define clear ways to avoid double-tracks and faulty contact points. It is simply completely wrong for patients with bagatella diseases to besiege the hospitals and wait for hours for real acute cases because too many patients are there. - We'll change all of that. One final point, which is also very important to me personally, is prevention, prevention of diseases. The Minister has already referred to a number of programmes; Vaccines are certainly a major issue, but I also believe that we really need to do much more in the field of health education for our people. We already have to start in schools, and we need coordinated measures and not double and multi-tracks that are taking place in the Nile. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed some reasonable approaches at the last meetings of the Committee on Health. Mr Loacker, who sits here: It's not to despair, we're on a good path! They also submitted some really good and innovative applications, some of which were still a little ahead of their time, but don't give up hope! Mr Kucher, too, has had very reasonable approaches in the discussion as regards strengthening the established area and public pharmacies; I would also like to thank him for this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Noll.]] Ladies and gentlemen here in the House, let us, together, implement the necessary health reforms within the meaning of all Austrians, so that our health system will remain one of the best in the world in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52171	Mr Vogl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52192	Since the study of the London School of Economics has often been quoted here, I believe it is also undisputed that we have one of the health systems with the lowest administrative costs in Europe. I think we should also put this out of the question. The second issue is of course: If one cites here a unit that is 30 years old and refers, so to say, to the modern health care at that time, the question is how the whole thing is at present. [[Interference of Federal Ministine-rin Hartinger-Klein.]] The topic of healthy food, of course, plays an important role in the field of health, and I have already mentioned yesterday that we have an institution with the Agency for Health and Food Safety, which, as it were, helps us to provide healthy food. I am simply thinking in this regard, if we have to find that the age is already EUR 7.5 million due to the continuation of the budget in 2022, because the pharmaceutical tax was not extended as originally planned until 2023, but only lacks additional EUR 3.5 million for the ages by 2019 – and this, although it receives additional tasks. Now, taking over the tasks relating to tobacco control is probably the least concern, because we are currently discussing genetic engineering in Europe: France is trying to remove certain breeding procedures – we are talking about 30 modern breeding procedures here – from the genetic engineering regime. I think that if you imagine that, then you know what will be done in the future on control tasks on the ages. You have referred to it, Mrs Minister: Antibiotic resistance is a topic that we should really deal with. I think it also needs a lot of commitment from you, because, as you have rightly mentioned, only part of this problem lies with you. Much of the antibiotic resistance results from agriculture. In other words, the question is also how you can achieve something together with agriculture, because what is already apparent from this area in wastewater is worrying. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then there is another exciting point that is currently being discussed in the media, as I believe, across Europe: healthy food, especially for children. It is important, as I think, to give children healthy eating habits, so to speak, to bring them to healthy food in school and kindergarten. We know sugar plays a very, very important role. They themselves have set themselves the goal of reducing consumption: In 2015, it was 33.3 kilograms, 2018 it is expected to be 28.46 kilograms and in 2020 18 kilograms. This is a proper reduction in sugar: This is more or less a third less sugar in two years. The only question is how you want to achieve this, because you have buried yourself ideologically. Ideologically, we're not a banned company, that is, we're not doing anything about sugar. The second issue we have is: No new taxes and taxes! That is to say, what England is going to successfully predict is to introduce a levy on sugar, which has led producers to lower the sugar content of drinks already in advance before the tax itself has become effective, which seems to be not a topic for Austria or a way forward. I'm excited what's behind it, so to speak, if you set yourself such an ambitious goal as you want to achieve. Finally, another issue because it's really exciting – you have also mentioned it, that's very, very important to you – is the area of health research. Now 14 percent of women in Austria go to health research. In Austria, we aim to increase this value to 14.3 percent for women. For the men – we are not as bad as our reputation – 13,1 percent go to the health examination. The goal is to maintain this percentage, or the target status for 2018 is 13.2 percent, an increase of 13.1 percent to 13.3 percent for the years 2019 to 2020. They write the following: ‘The aim is to increase the rate of participation per year disproportionately in favour of men’. That is, an increase of 0.2 percent in men compared to 0.3 percent in women is an disproportionate increase for you. – I therefore understand that it is an disproportionately good budget for you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52244	Mr Smolle is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52265	Mr President. Dear Mrs Health Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate viewers! In the field of health, a lot of money is really being moved in Austria. So that you have about the order of magnitude in mind: Some 39 billion euros are spent each year, 11.2 percent of GDP, whereas the health budget, which is centrally handled through the Federal Ministry of Health, is relatively modest, with a value of 1 billion euros – but this is increased accordingly over the years. Well, especially in view of these conditions, the head office in the federal government has a very, very essential control function, and this control function is also very, very well performed. There will continue to be major health-care challenges, but a very essential goal will be to achieve as much performance as possible where best, most efficient and safe. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In order to maintain our solidaric, low-sleep, high-quality health system, to which we all confess, it is necessary to pay particular attention to this point. This means a balanced division of tasks between the stationary area and the established area, and there are some targets that are very good in this direction. The first is a moderate reduction in hospital stays in Austria, which has already been used in recent years, which is continued. The emphasis is on: Zero-day stays, daily clinical services and, especially, upgrading general medicine and primary care. A very big step forward, successful, is the funding of teaching practices in general medicine training, and it is very important for the primary care centres, which create a base for many doctors of the young generation, which is well compatible with their life planning; perhaps for some, better than the sole solitaire struggle in rural practice, although there can be a decisive gap with group practices and the possibility of recruiting doctors. The budget for the health resort is stable, the tasks are large. I'm convinced it'll be brilliantly mastered.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52311	Mr Dietmar Keck is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52335	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Actually, I would have expected Dr. Smolle to say something about non-smoker protection today, because when he voted at that time he was missing, but apparently he didn't have to do it today either. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen! As the government, in its unsurpassed tightness and against the will of nearly 600,000 people who support the Don’t-smoke people's desire, has removed the general ban on smoking, I have considered how many resources have now been earmarked for non-smoker protection in this budget – the answer is quite simple: zero! That is to say, it is not a cent for non-smoker protection in the budget, nor can it be found in the case of accurate research. As a justification for the ban on smoking in gastronomy, you have announced the introduction of the Berlin model in your government programme, but nothing has been left of the Berlin model, Mrs Health Minister and Minister of Finance, because also a smoking charge, as the gastronomy companies in Berlin have to do, is not included in this budget. That is, such a one will not be lifted. These funds could have been used to finance measures for non-smokers protection for young people, so why were these charges provided for in the Berlin model, which were so grandly announced, not introduced? You see, ladies and gentlemen, the government is really mutated by the announcement giant to the implementation. Many words and absolutely nothing is behind them, but there is still a policy for the people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] This government ignores the introduction of a popular desire, which is on the best way to become one of the most successful popular desires of all time in Austria. Opinion researchers even say that the million mark could be skipped. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But those who believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this government takes this signal from the people to reconsider their false policies, they are completely mistaken; on the contrary: The clearly apparent will of the people, which stands out there, is trampled with feet. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Martin Graf.]] Where – if you already think you have to intervene – has the direct democracy, which has been so glorious by the FPÖ, remained, Mr Graf? [[Abg. Schimanek: Mr. Vice-Chancellor made this clear!]] First, swim with the current and promise a lot before the elections, but once you're in charge, you can't remember anything anymore – that's the way you're going, nothing else do you! I can only say that those who really represent the interests of the population in Austria are we – you are no longer at all!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52409	Mr Riemer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52430	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr Keck, Mr Gorbachev: Whoever comes too late punishes the voters! That's the way it is. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've never heard so much conjunctiv: would, would have, would have. Not even Napoleon would have managed to make everything that we should have done in a hundred days. But please, why not?- Oh, my God! One trusts this federal government a lot if one says: had, had – and she does. I have, in principle, only considered the guidelines of the Coalition Agreement, and it says: 'Prevention and health promotion'. Also on the individual points in the budget estimate – let's leave the figures; it's gotten more anyway – says: Prevention and health promotion, a great story. This – I give colleagues Vogl completely right – also belongs to the whole area of nutrition. Yeah, that's part of it. What are we doing about drug problems, including prevention, what about legal drugs, with nicotine in adolescents? Yeah, that's part of it, too. [[Call the SPÖ: Alcohol!]] - Yes, of course, alcohol belongs to it. It would also be possible to think about Fast Food et cetera, but I don't want to do that at all. I think that it is also essential to refer to social security schemes. In 1881 Bismarck put a social security system on the table, in Graz, in Vienna, there have already been a hundred years before. What happened to it? – In the term, the words are social and insurance. Yes, you can be social, but the higher the demands, the more money it costs. How does it make sense for the population to afford an insurance at all? The opposition flatters us, that is, we were on the right path, that we now demand things from social democracy that it has refused us in our time of opposition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Minister has written it down – a miracle word I have never heard before –: ‘Customer orientation in the health system’. The focus is on the client, the patient, the affected, the complete medicine. We've never heard that before. This is customer orientation; not: Whoever pays, creates!, but: Who's being helped? - That's a story. Since much has already been well represented by the Federal Minister and also by the previous speakers, I would rather limit myself to the objective of effect 4. The diet has been clearly addressed. In this context, we might also need to think about the possibilities of food supervisory authorities – you just always talk about them – about the Ages, about the veterinary authorities in the countries. I have selected figures from the Green Report 2015 and they will not have changed noticeably: approximately 47 000 operational controls, 30 000 samples; 23 000 farm controls on meat production and 3 000 on milk production. These are numbers, but that is the point, please, of food quality, which is why we take the controls of course. Safe foods mean every woman, every man, every child in that state. We are always talking about food, and in this context – and this is also in the scope of this – the animal welfare must also be addressed. Mr Keck has always been a companion in the matter of animal welfare, for which I am grateful to him, and Mr Eßl, too, has always been committed to animal welfare. Let's get to the essential! I have checked whether there is something in the budget about animal welfare at all. – Yes, Mrs. Federal Minister, and I'm going to have a heart, that's something quite great. I have to say, also thanks to the colleagues Stöger, Rendi-Wagner and Sabine Oberhauser makes animal protection school. These are things that one can be proud of and that are now being carried on successfully. Animal welfare is provided for about EUR 819 000 in 2018 and also EUR 819 000 in 2019. I've been thinking about what's actually going on with that. Animal protection makes school, this association has already initiated excellent ladies and gentlemen in front of us, I have always appreciated it, animal protection makes school I must interpret on the other hand but also so: Animal welfare is too low in schools – a failure of course also of the previous government that it should have implemented this topic much more in schools, as it concerns very valuable things. Mrs Mag. Beate Hartinger-Klein is quoted this way: “The association “Animal protection makes school” provides children with a sustainable and responsible handling of animals. That the whole thing is also fun makes the club even more supportive.” – I think that’s a great quote, thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Something else: 100 000 euros will be spent on support for animal husbandry, innovative products dealing with animal welfare. The Chimpanzee project was impressive in Ganserndorf; it was about former laboratory chimpanzees. Someone said: For God's sake, now we can feed them too, there you need extra staff! – One should consider how these poor animals that come from laboratories have been painted and how bad they are. Or, also a great story: Vethics, a module system for veterinary doctors and students to establish a connection between humans, animals and ethical bases, such as the so-called sleeper, with diseases in livestock stocks et cetera, how the doctor deals with the field of stress animal and human beings when it comes to the valuable life of the animal, for example, the sleep of pets. There's a big deal to the doctors. Or: support with 20 000 euros per rescue dog for mountain rescue. I could continue this list, but then there is no time for anything else to mention: all the miscarriage of animal transport, not only nationally, but internationally. At this point, I would like to thank our Head of Delegation in the European Parliament, Mr Vilimsky, a animal protection officer – I would also like to quote everyone else who wants to work for it – for his commitment to the Committee of Inquiry. In the EU, 360 million cattle, sheep, pigs, goats and horses are transported live per year, 52 million of them across national borders. You have to be against this madness that happens there. Very bad about the thing: EU laws do not do anything if something happens outside the EU. Nobody looks at how long these animals are painted. So: Thanks to the animal protection! Or the problem with the cat castration: This is about a million breed cats each year in Austria. Yeah, you're laughing again, of course, but it's an insanity what happens to these animals. [[towards SPÖ]] And here in Parliament you are making fun of the fact that some idealists are accepting this matter?- Oh, my God! 20 000 euros must be spent by private money, and in fact every Member should spend money on it, which is actually a matter, but instead these idealists are only being smiled. A regulation must be found in this matter, as the law needs to be tightened. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also need to find a regulation for the dogs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – Mr Schellhorn, as an economic icon – or aren’t you? – let me tell you, dogs bring 1.2 billion euros in value added in Austria. What kind of operation can that take? I'm talking about the assistance dogs, not the dogs for hunting, I'm talking about diabetic dogs, blind dogs et cetera. We must do something here, especially for those responsible for it. This is also our task in terms of animal welfare. I hope – and I can say that Mr Eßl, too, is ready to talk about it – that we are also in the field of farm animals. Animals, and I think that to address the SPÖ too, have no ideological coloring, animals are feeling fellow beings. If we do something together for the animals, we make this world more humane! Let us not only do something for the tourist country Austria, but also do something there! The focus is on life, and there is a further development important. In this sense I say thank you very much – I would have been almost excited now, because it's about the perverts.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52503	Mr Kucher is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52524	Mr President. High house! Estimated government members! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, with all appreciation, but you are a little expert in complaining about the fires you have caused yourself. You have to be very clear about this after today's speech. They are only recently complaining about the insanity that has been committed in relation to the Elgadata that people are now afraid. That's what I'm asking you: Why did you agree to the Council of Ministers? So you've caused this uncertainty, too. The second point to be answered openly: They're talking crazy when the people in Austria are worried about the accident hospitals. Who, then, has ridded this debate entirely of facts? - That's you! So you have to return to these facts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: It was you!]] Mr Tashner, you are a mathematician, and you are sorry that I am now trying to give you such a professional example of calculation, but perhaps you can help the woman minister! How is this when 500 million euros are taken out of the system as a tax sugar for Sebastian's large donors – 500 million euros – and it is said that the whole has to be saved in the area of administration, but the entire administrative cost is only 92 million euros? - That's not going out in the back and in the front! That is, even if you put every single secretary on the street, even if you save the entire administration, there is still a bit of a thing missing. To calculate this should normally not be a mathematical problem. We also have an absolute specialist here, Mrs Minister, perhaps we can have the bilateral re-examination, because this is not how it is done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] 500 million euros for Sebastian Kurz's large donors – and people pay for it, and then all of a sudden the little secretary is guilty, in the accident hospital maybe, to which the costs are to be saved. It won't work like that. In fact, I also wanted to address the point of savings generally in the health system. Of course, there are many areas where we pay great attention and say: Yes, turn every euro twice, become more efficient!, but compared to others, we want the money to flow back into the health system, that patients have a benefit from it, for example, shorter waiting periods, or that medical care will be better that nurses, doctors and doctors have more time for patients. - No, you don't do that, there will be saved! That is the difference, and I would say that you would have the responsibility to tell the Minister of Finance, there is a saving that might be useful, and there is simply pointless shortcoming. If there is a roof somewhere, the Minister of Finance would be super proud to be able to save a euro, because one does not necessarily need a roof tile. He would be very proud to have saved a euro for the roof tile if it were to be celebrated with a giant marketing tyrade: Another euro saved for Austria! – Because the whole thing then costs thousands of euros, this is not necessarily the smartest saving. Just as I have described this now, we are experiencing it in the field of education. You save at the expense of young people and wonder that all the young people eventually land at the AMS. One could also talk bilaterally about the fact that there is already a savings that actually costs more than one has previously saved. That might be a topic for both of you. [[towards Federal Minister Löger and Federal Minister Hartinger-Klein]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, a central point: Yes, you can't do enough in the field of prevention. We could also fight for this because every euro invested in the field of prevention helps twice. On the one hand, follow-up costs in the health system can be reduced, but above all human suffering can be stopped, and in truth prevention contributes to the fact that people do not get sick at all. There are very important projects in this area. Sabine Oberhauser has done a lot, including Pamela Rendi-Wagner; there you must also congratulate, you continue this path. I do not want to say anything now, but in the budget there is at least a positive signal in this regard. Of course, more needs to be done in this area, and of course more money should be taken into control. An area which is not at all in the government programme, for example, is the area of mental health. I might be able to give an example: A lady told me that she had her second child in the 1970s and after that she had a depression and was extremely difficult to cope with, because everyone in the circle of friends and acquaintances told her that she had to be happy, she had just had a baby and had to be happy. This woman didn't know at the time that many women did. Because of the fact that these topics have then been discussed openly, because of the fact that they have been clarified, they have been helped afterwards. There are great projects in Austria. In Carinthia, for example, our head of state office representative Beate Prettner is very intense behind it. We are the number two in the area of healthy municipality after Upper Austria. If you just go out to the population, if you give talks in country guest houses, when all of a sudden neighbors, friends, acquaintances talk openly about health issues when taboos are being dismantled, then that's also health policy. So: more money for prevention!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52588	Mr Marchetti is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52609	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Dear colleague Kucher, how to present an increase of 670 million euros in education as a reduction, that is, I think, an intellectual grip on art, which only you understand. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let's go to the health sector: Unfortunately, especially young people do not deal with their health until they get sick, and too often we perceive health as too self-evident. Unfortunately, the same applies to our health system. As long as it goes out, we don't talk about it, but at some point it'll be too late. As one of the youngest Members of the House, I am really glad that the Federal Government is now doing this differently and is finally addressing this hot iron. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Two figures bring the challenges facing our social and health system to the fore: From 2006 to 2016, the number of pensioners increased by 45 percent and the number of care providers increased by 35 percent. This trend is called demographic change, and it is undisputed, and God is Thank you, too, it is undisputed that we set up our health system in such a way that we live up to it. These include, for example, the increase in the actual retirement age, the fight against social abuse or the abolition of any pension privileges. However, it is also about reforming social security schemes. 22 Social security funds are simply too much for such a small country as Austria. Five are sufficient, thus creating more efficient administration and, finally, excessive harmonisation of performance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In this way, we can also secure this system for future generations in the long term. Changes always need a clear head and, like there, a disarmament of words, I think. This will be necessary because putting the health system on new legs is a mammoth task. I mean, it's not necessary for this mammoth task to fall victim to a party-political hack. If we create this reform, we will one day be measured, and I believe that it is perfectly right. Let's go!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52670	The next item is Mrs Nussbaum's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52691	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Your attack on AUVA, your attack on the health insurance companies is an attack on social peace in Austria. [[Abg. Loacker: Go, please!]] Not for nothing in our country there is the model of real self-government and none with state enforcement law. There is a good reason for workers and employers themselves to watch over their contributions. This is a form of democracy, for which you seem to lack understanding. [[Abg. Loacker: With the administration, all the failures remain in office...!]] It is precisely this self-government that you are attacking several times, in a way that this country has not yet seen. They have put AUVA an unfulfilled ultimatum, only to destroy it. They want to reduce the number of social security funds to five. As you come to this figure, you can't explain, probably you've thrown, because if you'd really read the LSE study, you'd have come to the conclusion that all the models proposed there provide for further developments, but no dramatic changes and destructions were considered necessary. [[Abg. Höbart: There are not even their own people!]] The third step in the destruction of self-management is the collection of contributions by the Ministry of Finance, by the financial offices, but this would be unconstitutional. Self-administration is about the administration and use of the funds and not just the administration of any shopping paper. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, according to the Court of Auditors, social security is better suited to carry out the contribution audit – clearly, a success rate of 99.7 percent is difficult to overcome. The efficiency of the administration is also record suspect. In the local health phone of 100 euros taken, 97 euros flow into the benefits for the insured, but this is not what you are talking about. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Höbart.]] It is a matter of increasing the state's influence in a first step and then initiating privatisation. We have one of the best health systems in the world in Austria. We will fight for the maintenance of the system of solidarity, because health must not be a luxury. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52764	I am no longer able to speak on the subject of health subdividing. The discussions on this subject are thus complete. [[15:44:53]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions – officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: financing, exchange-rate contracts and the texts of the Federal Finance Act and any remaining parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV;
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52838	We come to consult the breakdowns 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51, 58 as well as the texts of the federal financial laws and each other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. The first is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52867	As we now come to the final chapter of the budget negotiations, we can also draw a summary and sum up everything a little. It is striking that some things that have been successfully carried out in recent years, such as reducing the debt of the Republic. We have already learned here in the Budget Committee and also in the debate that debt has been falling for several years – also nominally, not only in relation to GDP, so to speak, to the overall cake. This is a positive step forward. As far as the deficit is concerned, a surplus for next year has been programmed in itself, which is only later. That means you're slower in making a balanced budget. There is a PR surplus, which you acclaim diligently here and emphasize again and again. However, this is worth just as much as the so-called zero deficit of Grasser, because it is administratively based on one-off effects, for example, on the repayment of the money that the Bayern still owes to the Republic from the hypo. You know, the FPÖ in Carinthia has incubated this. [[Abg. Angerer: I will explain it to you!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Martin Graf.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] They will pay us back more than 800 million euros next year, and the surplus resulting from it will be 500 million euros. The budget service has predicted that the one-time effects alone are about three times as high as what you celebrate as an administrative surplus. That is, that's a PR-gag à la Grasser, and I wouldn't go home too big with that, because as you know, most of it's a boomerang. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smoking.]] It also changes a lot. In particular, I would like to mention the social cold which is clearly felt in this budget, whether it be the type of The way in which family support is in the form of a family bonus is whether it is saving in the future, as in the education sector, in the language teachers, whether it is saving the unemployed who are 50 years old or older, or whether it is saving in integration. We will have major problems with integration due to your policy over the next few years. What still stands out is that the budget is much less transparent than we are used to. I've never heard there's something like feeling-free in a budget. It was confirmed to us by Mr Kunasek that he received twice 30 million euros under the title “feel free”. Perhaps in the meantime you have also found it in your budget documents, Minister Löger; In any case, Mr Kunasek has confirmed this. In some cases, the budget is also dishonest. You yourself have said that the gap in the educational budget would be closed, but you only close it to about two thirds by fresh money, and a third would have to come through savings measures. However, the Minister of Education has said that he does not want to implement the savings measures proposed by the Ministry of Finance. This would be an increase in the number of school students and an increase in the number of partitions, which in turn means more children in English or in foreign language teaching – in that respect it is also dishonest. It is also a budget of uncertainty, which has been revealed in recent days. I should just like to think of AUVA and its announcements, because many workers are now rightly concerned about what this means for their health care if they have an accident if they need an accident pension and so on. In fact, there is a really good institution being mistreated and destroyed from the outside, but it provides very, very important contributions to our health system. That is to say, it is a budget of social cold, transparency, dishonesty and insecurity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to point out that: There are these short budget requests. Some of them are truly satisfactory. What really surprised me, however, is that you, as Minister of Finance, have not answered these questions properly. I can hand over two of these questions here and ask you to do this properly. It is relatively easy, we asked the question: What are the staff costs for your office? The answer would be expected to be given in euro, but the answer is: “The staff costs for the staff of my cabinet will be paid in 2018 and 2019 from the budget estimated for the entire central office.” – We did not ask you what pot you were paying for, but how much money the staff of your office cost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda]] The same we asked about the staff in your Secretary-General's office, and we received the same answer. We know, however, that there are three people working there. Why can't you just write – as most ministries do – how much that costs? I would like to ask you to do so; perhaps you can You'll do this at the time of your speech. I'll let you know the questions, and I've already painted them for you. – Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e52973	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53013	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear colleague Krainer, as it always brings with it our function and the order of variety between pro- and counter-reder, I am usually after you. Once again, I must be interested to see how different one can interpret a budget, which in principle consists of figures and also of comparable figures from earlier periods and so on, even though these are figures that should actually be taken as facts. I note with this budget that the motto is that less is admitted – i.e. less red tape or less money for bureaucracy, less debt – which were nominally less than last year, but it does not hurt that we continue the course – less taxes, less for non-Austrian people in some areas and less for some ineffective AMS projects. This we use for a more for education, for a more for security, for a more for research, for a more for families and for a more for care and social. [[Abg. Drozda:... for such sayings!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Less is more means less taxes and taxes. What do fewer taxes and taxes entail in the reverse? – They bring an appeal to the volunteers of this country and, of course, a more for those who are damning much in our system. To make it concrete: The reduction in unemployment insurance contributions has already taken place or is now taking place; in addition, the reduction in VAT on the receipts and the family bonus, a huge tax relief, which affects especially those from the middle class who are currently extremely taxed, and these are often families with children. These will benefit to an extent of almost 1.5 billion euros. If you look ahead to 2020, you can see that a tax reform with a volume of several billion euros is in preparation, especially in the area of wage and income tax, on the other hand, corporate taxation, corporate tax, but also in the form of a legal-neutral tax-burdened individual entrepreneurs – a huge project that will, in turn, lead to a strengthening of the performance and the beneficiaries in that country who carry the system in that country. Of course, it also improves and strengthens Austria's economic location, which is also combined with a number of additional investment incentives, which, as has been said, will naturally strengthen the site. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with this budget, Austria is becoming more fairer and more competitive against all unconfirmed calls. With this budget we are pursuing a growth and performance-oriented consolidation course, and I can only invite everyone here in this House to follow us along this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53061	Next item is the report by Mrs Doublebauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53083	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! As an important objective of effectiveness, you have defined that Austria's competitiveness should be improved by a simple, transparent and performance-oriented design of the tax system, because in fact, that is what employers and employees feel every day: The tax system in Austria is complicated, inconspicuous and by some it is called anti-performance. The Doing Business Report, which is the measure for this effect target, says we are currently in place 39 out of 180 countries, and 2019 and 2020 will simply take the target value further. This is not excellent, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree that this is not satisfactory. Nor can I imagine, Minister of Finance, that you agree. We should already have the ambition that we are among the best and rank our country in the top places. Back to your projects, Minister of Finance: They have announced that they want to implement a tax reform in the near future – reducing taxes that relieve people. I hear your words, and I also want to give them faith, because you know my pain that I have already expressed, namely that valuable time is given in a perfect high economy and in a low interest rate phase. I understand that you want to consider this and that you have to look at it again, but, Minister of Finance, the concepts, the concrete proposals were also on the table during the election campaign, and they were also part of the election promises of ÖVP and FPÖ. If you're not happy with that, I understand. The proposals were certainly not all good, I agree with you, but then we sit together, we discuss this and we correct it! Leave Let us take this one or the other into account, so that it will be true, but let's get to it! If we are talking about the things that should be addressed, it is also particularly important to talk about the financial balance system. If I were to wear your hat, that would be the first thing I would do, because we all know that responsibility for tasks, expenditure and revenue belongs to one hand. We all know the Court of Auditors' reports, and if we do not change this, the person who does not have to worry about the revenue will give up and act carelessly. We all know that we are talking about our heads of state – in order to avoid the term "princes of darkness" today. We now have the perfect framework for doing this and addressing it. What a contribution to the budget debate without figures, and there are a few very important figures! It was said earlier that figures are not lying. I do not entirely agree with that, with numbers it can be manipulated perfectly. A number that I would like to address here is wage tax revenue. Since 1995, tax performance per capita has increased by 87 percent. Of course, this has to do with inflation, it has to do with economic development, but we have been talking since the 1980s about the relief of the factor work, even now again, and it has never happened. Let's just stick to the revenue. Wage tax revenue is not the only thing that has increased rapidly, but in recent years wage tax has increased by 6 billion euros – 21 percent – and corporate tax by 4 billion euros – that is 63 percent – and sales tax has increased by 7 billion euros. These are incredible rates of increase that we have right now. Both the EIA and the FPÖ promised in the election campaign that they would be eligible to finance the government budget by means of an appropriate tax revenue. What's going on? – We are in a high economy, we take everything that is being washed up by this high-conjunction, here, give it out to say 2019: There's a slight surplus here! But that's what we're going to see. We have already talked about it, structurally it will not become surplus and probably not otherwise – keyword: priced one-off effects. Ladies and gentlemen, as a budget speaker, allow me to address another point on the budget debate in this House; we have now arrived at the end of our three-day deliberations and we are approaching the decision-making process. I think many of you will do so when I say that the emotions in this House have sometimes gone up – that's okay, that's normal; we are often different opinions, and that's all right, because we've also been elected because of this different point of view. But here in the House these opinions are supposed to meet in the political debate, and it is also about a respectful approach, not only so that we have the basis for working well together in the future, but also especially because we are always under observation. That many people no longer want to watch us and turn away from us is not a natural law, but it is in our hand whether this is the case or not. This morning a colleague on his way to Parliament on a poster read a quote from Ödön von Horváth, namely: “I don’t think so, I’m just saying it.” – I think that’s not the way we should go and move forward, but the many highly competent speeches that have been made in the field in the last three days should be the way. Perhaps that can actually be the way to the future – in the interests of our democracy and also in the interests of people outside. Mr Finanzminister! You will not be very surprised that NEOS will not agree to this double budget 2018 and 2019 and also the budget accompanying law. [[MEPs Martin Graf and Höbart: Well, go!]] That's probably what you all thought. For us, this foundation of government policy, cast in figures, for the years 2018 and 2019, is not ambitious enough, it is visionless, it is a Biedermeier budget. You get the status quo, and that for almost half of the government period. But maybe you're even right in one point or another – I don't want to exclude that at all, that's going to be wise time and that's what we're going to see. I wish all of us here, above all, a sustained, good high-cost, I must say, and you, Minister of Finance, in the interest of Austria, have a great deal of success in the budget implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53124	I can warmly welcome the students of the Hans-Mandl vocational school to our gallery. I'm glad you're here. [[General condolences.]] Mr Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53155	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! This double budget 2018/2019 introduces a budgetary policy turn, it introduces a new age in the budget policy in Austria. If it is said that a budget is cast in figures, it can also be said that it represents a social change in Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I should like to remind you of this – because in these three days of the debate we have been repeatedly accused: this does not happen and does not happen and you do nothing –: Although this government has only been in office for four months, it has already moved very, very much in these four months, and this, although a government programme is not designed for four months, but for five years. In this context, I recall the family bonus – the tax relief of EUR 1,500 per child – the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions for low-paid people, the reduction of the turnover tax on accommodation companies from 13 per cent to 10 per cent – all in view of the fact that one of the major objectives of this Federal Government is to reduce the tax rate in Austria in the long term. We have a tax burden, which has always and constantly been in the 43.44 percent range over the last 15 years. This government wants to reduce the tax rate to almost 40 percent or, if possible, to less than 40 percent. If, over this period of the last 15 years, the tax rate has never been reduced, but it has nevertheless been so-called tax reforms, this only proves one thing, namely that these tax reforms have not only not taken advantage of it, but that they have not taken advantage of it, because, on the one hand, people have been given money in the left pocket, but from the right, they have been taken out again. Much has already been done and there are still many projects in the government programme – its implementation is scheduled for five years. It is important to ensure that the reduction is consistent. continue to pursue the debt. Austria currently has a debt of EUR 290.5 billion, which is over 80 percent of the gross domestic product. It is now also important to benefit the economy in order to further the reduction of debt. There will be a surplus of 550 million euros in 2019, and this will, of course, also create spaces – spaces for a Income Tax Act EStG 2020 with a re-codification of tax law, which will also include the abolition of the so-called cold progression, which has always been demanded and which we have also called for in the past. Now she'll come! So we do not save here at the expense of the service providers and the families. Because now we also have the UG 15: I would like to give a practical example of how this government is doing and how it works: There will also be simplifications in financial management. It is currently true that wage-dependent taxes are abolished by the financial system, the local health fund and the local authorities, and the review of these charges is also carried out by several authorities. The aim here is to ensure that only one authority will collect these charges in the future and that the review will be carried out only by one authority. – This is how reform goes, so goes budget, and that is also saving in the system! High house! That is why this budget is a turning budget. It introduces a new age in budget policy, and FPÖ, the People's Party and the Federal Government also stand for a future-oriented Austria with this budget. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] It is a social policy turning away from left-wing, socialist waste-making policy towards an expenditure-oriented and revenue-oriented policy, both of which is justifiable because it is ensured that the budget will continue to be balanced in the future. This is how budget goes, and that is how responsibility goes! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] At the end of this three-day budget debate, we will vote on the budget in the near future, let me finish my speech with a quote which, I believe, best characterizes these three-day budget consultations and also this budget. I quote the representatives of the Social Democratic Party Muna Duzdar, who said: This government saves in the system and not in the human race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53231	Mr Rossmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53252	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Kopf – he's not here right now – unfortunately I have to correct you: Tax revenue is rising, of course, this year compared with the previous year and next year compared with this year. That's normal. But what is going down is the tax ratio, and the government is so much concerned with this tax rate. It is known to reduce this to less than 40 percent of GDP, which is its major objective. It sees less what overall social, economic, total social, overall distribution policy objectives are to be achieved, but the main thing is that the tax rate is falling. It also has little interest in who actually pays a lot of taxes. And that, I think, is the interesting question. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to address a little of the question of distribution and tax justice in this House today. That's what people are interested in: Who pays how much tax? No one likes to pay taxes, but it always depends on: What do you pay them for, and: Who pays how much? Are they the beneficiaries of high incomes that pay a lot of taxes, or are they those with low incomes? So, what did this government do to take action? – Let’s take the example of the family bonus plus: 1.5 billion euros will be distributed to taxpayers with children. If we look at the distribution effects, then we see, of course, that – and I did this before yesterday – the performance providers are relieved, i.e. mainly those who pay wage and income tax. Those who do not pay wage and income tax are fed down with small items in the order of up to 250 euros per child per year; those who pay wage and income tax get up to six times as much. Now, in the light of tax and distribution justice, I wonder: Is that fair, Minister of Finance? - I would think no. [[Call the FPÖ: That's fair!]] Is it fair, Mr Commissioner, that women receive only a quarter of these 1,500 million euros, but the men do three quarters, although women do the educational work for these children? [[Call the FPÖ:Of course! That's fair at last!]] Is that gender right? – Of course, no, that’s not gender right. [[Call the FPÖ:Pfeif on gender-friendly!]] And is it fair if we have a total tax burden in Austria, which is insignificantly higher for high incomes than for the lower incomes, i.e. for people who do not pay wage and income taxes? – Of course, this is not fair, and it also contradicts the principle of efficiency. Now the Federal Chancellor says again and again: Well, for those who do not pay a wage and income tax, we have a special sugar product: We lower the contributions to unemployment insurance. Now, however, we know that those who earn up to EUR 1 381 per month have not paid any money before the decision of this reduction in unemployment insurance contributions. So what the Federal Chancellor tells us here in this House and people in front of the television screens and elsewhere is simply wrong. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Gödl: That's not true!]] It is simply wrong, but it shows the understanding of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Government, what they understand by distribution justice. They also call it “new justice”, at least in their electoral programme. Well, and the ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ have apparently given up their interest in the little man for a long time, that doesn't matter anymore. Now they're in power, now they don't have to worry about this self anymore. [[Call at the FPÖ:The performance carriers will become more...!]] What else is the government planning on sugar distribution policy for the big ones? – Take the example of reducing corporate tax! This is to be halved for profits not taken. Cost: about 2 to 3 billion euros. As this is to be financed, I may say something about it, but this is essentially a tax gift to the large corporations, Mr Finanzminister. Not the small GmbHs benefit from it! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] But one benefits in particular: It is the KTM chief Stefan Pierer, who said and wrote 436 563 euros for the election campaign in the election campaign of the ÖVP. The government also promises a reduction in the income tax rate. However, this will also lead to the fact that the lower incomes are not relieved. Now, of course, you're wondering: How is all this to be financed? Where is the provision in the budgets and in the financial framework? – Precautions are essentially not met, but one can imagine where the trip will go. I would like to take an example: Indeed, the abolition of emergency aid is planned, i.e. the direct transition from unemployment benefit to minimum security. When the asset balance comes, this leads to medium income being taxed almost with an asset tax. This is really a cleaner in the light of the fact that the high assets in Austria will not be subject to asset taxation, that the high assets in Austria will not be subject to any inheritance tax either. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] This leads me to the weaknesses of the tax system: We have – and there we are world champions – a very high burden of the factor work. Taxation of assets does not exist in fact, in the international comparison we are down there. We are also in the lower incomes of eco-taxes. I mean, the ten richest people in Austria, Mr. Finanzminister – I do not know if you know that – have about as much as a federal budget we need to make a decision here in a few minutes, i.e. around 80 billion euros. Ten billionaires own as much as a total budget of the federal government for a year! [[Abg. Noll: Power carriers stop, yes!]] And taxes they pay for it how much? – In any case, no property taxes and no inheritance taxes. What we need, therefore, from the point of view of distribution justice, is that we finally have to relieve the low incomes, financed by taxes on the wealth of the rich and super-rich in this country! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] But not about a reduction in the income tax rate, Mr. Finanzminister! It doesn't work. No, there must be a reduction in social security contributions. [[Abg. Gödl: The unemployment insurance contributions are reduced!]] – I said social security contributions if you may have listened. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, this is hard, listening, with you!]] But the climate question is also a very serious issue of distribution policy – many in this room just don't want to do that. What we need, therefore, is also an ecological, an eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] That means: Tax on fossil energy as well as on CO2 emissions on the one hand – and on the other hand taxes on work again! So it needs a rework. Now you, Mr Finanzminister, as well as you, Mr State Secretary, but also the Federal Minister, Köstinger, have given us the prospect of an eco-social tax reform. I would therefore like to make the sample of nails for the members of the FPÖ and the ÖVP and to submit the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] If the promises made here three times by the Government Bank are serious, ladies and gentlemen, I expect a yes to this resolution in just a few minutes. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] You, Mr Finanzminister, must, of course, do much more in order to produce tax justice – keyword: To combat tax fraud and tax avoidance. It can't be that every small bookstore in Eisenstadt, Klagenfurt or elsewhere pays more taxes than Amazon. Minister of Finance, we do not need a policy for corporations, we need a tax policy that ensures that we have a fairer tax system and that we do not save the large companies the tax benefits. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] One last point: The outbreak of the financial crisis is now almost ten years behind. We have been waiting for a financial transaction tax in Austria and elsewhere for ten years. Financial transactions and transactions on capital markets are de facto not taxed in Austria. I think it is now time to end with the financial lobbyists dancing around on your nose and prevent you from deciding on a financial transaction tax. In Brussels, Minister of Finance, ensure that a financial transaction tax is introduced to combat speculation! [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] Anxiety But it is also at national level, in particular, for us to have a fair tax and tax system in this country, which deserves this name too! Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[16:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53526	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53550	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear guests at the gallery and dear spectators, who you may still be patiently following this debate at home! I agree with my premiere as Minister of Finance in a budget debate that it is an intense experience to have a three-day opportunity to participate in a debate on the various sub-divisions, which has also been initiated by budget committee meetings and also by budget hearings that have taken many hours. I do not hide that I am impressed by the quality of the constructive-critical discussions I have experienced many times. On the other hand, I find it as a newcomer and a cross-country beginner – that I say quite unbelievably – to be surprised at what polemics and ideological basics are being discussed here and in a special way the Austrians, regardless of the subject, are scared. All of this happens in a phase in which the budget we are presenting for 2018 and 2019 brings exactly the opposite – it brings security to all Austrians and a perspective for a future that is positive and hopeful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I have decided not to take too much time, because I believe that we are all overcrowded and overcrowded by the issues. However, I am confident that some speeches will be made. Mr Rossmann, I agree with you that there will also be a lot of discussions in the coming years and there will be further developments. You yourself have mentioned that this Federal Government has taken action in addition to the first measures we have immediately put in place to put in place further measures of relief for the citizens of Austria. discharges – I have already done this several times – can only exist where there are loads. That is the basis of what we will follow consistently. We will also continue this path with income tax legislation, effective from January 2020, so that people will have hope again and pay for their work, performance and economies. That is our understanding and that is the basis for the next years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Most of the opposition, which obviously wants to define its new role in choking fears: Assuming that we have also made sure, in these discharges, that there is support for the people involved in small and low incomes in particular. It is precisely through these measures that we will be able to continue to ensure solidarity through support, through aid. We have heard it today, impressive more than 50 percent of our total budget goes to the area of social security. There we do not take away anything, we build budgets there, and in addition we put in place discharge measures for those who make contributions. That is the clear objective and it will also be the right basis for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me add something on the subject raised by Mr Krainer: understanding a budget deficit, a budget surplus or not. We hear again and again that this surplus in 2019 is a self-runner and it would have been the knowledge of having this surplus in 2018, because the economy delivers everything in the house. Mr. Krainer, I remember: The old, past, SPÖ-led government has managed, on the basis of the planning of an economic growth of 1.5 percent for the year 2017, which was the assumption, to put in place measures that were very strongly supported by a SPÖ's semi-governmental programme, and has assumed to achieve a deficit approach of EUR 4.2 billion. [[Abg. Stäger: With an ÖVP Finance Minister!]] The result is – even if I am called a happy finance minister, I am not as happy as you were – that the fact of the economy has brought you 3 per cent growth at the end of the year and you have nevertheless managed to achieve a deficit of 6.9 billion euros with measures that have partly opposed the development of the economy, i.e. you have spent 6.9 billion euros more than taken last year. [[Abg. Knes: The Schelling wasn't there?]] [[Abg. Knes: The ÖVP wasn't there? Incredible!]] We set a trend change and also change the basis clearly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Noll: Go, please! Mr. Minister, be ashamed!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Mr Lindner.]] Finally – because it is now about the subdivisions that the Ministry of Finance is concerned – the third important point, which is repeatedly questioned: Honest discharges for citizens mean doing something also through savings in the administration in the system, for example the Ministry of Finance. I now deliberately pick up a little further, as in the debate I was told that I was only negatively commenting in the past. On the contrary! The ÖVP finance ministers you have often quoted in recent years have managed to consistently save on financial management since 2000, for example 30 percent savings in personnel costs in this area. [[Abg. Knes: This is a contradiction!]] The number of staff in the last 15 years has consistently decreased by 30 percent. This is a concrete example, which shows that the EIA and its finance ministers are also able to consistently save in the system. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Mr Margreiter.]] There are many more examples, but they would now be out of line. Mr Krainer, you can calm down, I can give you a lot of figures and I will give you every single planning point of my cabinet in detail, but I can assume that the total cost of the Finance Minister's cabinet has been reduced from EUR 2.5 million in the last ten years to EUR 1.9 million. [[Abg. Krainer: Go, please!]] That too, I think, is a clear message that there has also been sensibly and consistently saved. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Finally, I gather – so that the circle closes and we come in the direction of a decision –: We have made it clear that this double budget 2018/2019 provides a stable basis for the successful development of Austria. We will ensure that there is an end to debt policy. Over 290 billion euros of debt there is no need to discuss – whether this is good or bad – as suggested by your budget hearing experts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Before we have this discussion, we must note that it is too high a debt and we will consistently reduce it over the next few years so that our children and children have a perspective and also a reasonable future in our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] They have a term, from whichever corner – I have not yet been able to experience it – from which I have raised it. This budget, Mr Krainer – and I can assure all other Members – is not a feeling-free budget, it is a feeling-good-feel-well budget for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] We will consistently implement the government programme, this budget gives us the basis for this. This is our answer to the decades-long policy of a SPÖ that has understood the topic of performance according to the motto feeling free – perhaps it comes to understand – feel free to get you promotions and benefits. We're saying feel good by rewarding the performance that's being done. That's what this government stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53734	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53756	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yeah, I feel good about this budget. Thank you many times, Minister of Finance, for your clear words. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] I would like to say one thing to Mr Rossmann – because we had such discussions in committee too –: I think whether he is with the Greens, whether he is on the list of mushrooms or he is changing to the Communists, he will not change his position, and that is a position that we cannot share. This has to be said quite clearly here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I also start with a good news: You'll notice when you're outside, that the mood in the companies is good again. That's good for the entrepreneurs, that's good for the workers. In Austria, there is no longer a good economic sentiment as it has been for 25 years, the value of entrepreneurship has increased from 15 percent to 40 percent. That's a good news. I always say that the mood is also important for performance, and that is why it is good that we also take the right measures with this budget, namely to consistently reduce debt, promote performance, relieve citizens and save them in the system. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly what we need now, at this time. Of course, we use the good economy, not a question, but we also need to thank all those who make a significant contribution to this with their performance, their hard work and their entrepreneurship. I would like to thank them very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We do not make new debts and we do not levy new taxes. The Minister for Finance has already said that we can only relieve those who are burdened. So we can only pay off the tax which is now paying taxes, and that is what we do with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] That's why it's gratifying that we're setting the right accents here. What is also gratifying – that is what the Minister of Finance has said in his budget speech – is that the banking crisis for Austria is finally over. We have no new costs for the Austrians in this field, and the professional management of the mining companies is doing a good job. We need in Austria for our businesses in the regions, of which I am 100% convinced, a strong domestic banking sector that accompanies the companies in their investments and supports them on their way to successful location work. I think that is very crucial, and that is why it is very important. You can see this with the investments that have started again. This year, compared with the previous year, we have an investment increase of 3.5 percent, and it is therefore important that the economy and the financial sector work closely together. We also need a powerful financial base, which is crucial for growth and stability. Especially innovative and wealthy countries, such as Austria, need a highly developed financial system, and there too the Minister of Finance sets the right impetus. Summa summarum is an excellent budget. We are continuing to work on the change of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53835	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53856	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! In the 1970s, Austria granted the Sudan state guarantees for export and civil infrastructure. These are worth about EUR 1.66 billion today, and there has long been the intention of debt to Sudan at this level. If you want to do this, there are several instruments. Usually, the so-called OECD Paris Club must agree, in other cases also the World Bank and the Monetary Fund. If the debt is real, then the amount owed can be counted on the Official Development Assistance, according to the official development aid payments made by Austria, which is in line with the OECD criteria. There are several conditions for this. One is – I quote from a request from the Ministry of Finance – that “the political situation in Sudan and South Sudan is sufficiently stabilised”. I had the opportunity with the developmental speakers of the other parliamentary groups last year to visit the Imvepi refugee camp in northern Uganda, where most of the refugees from South Sudan live, and I would like them all to be able to return home very soon, because the situation there is not very pleasing, as you can imagine. The only problem is that hardly anyone who knows the situation in the region well would see it realistically in a way that the situation in South Sudan, even in the conflict with Sudan, really changes substantially in some foreseeable time. The problem is that the Ministry of Finance has simply ignored these facts and thus geopolitics for a decade, and in every three-year programme for ten years in the budget perspective always provides for this 1.66 billion euros, divided into three tranches, in three years as debt, as ODA payments. This will never happen, of course, because, due to the political situation in South Sudan, the Paris Club could not agree that this debt can come. This is not only budget cosmetics, it is also very perfid, because over the last ten years this 1.66 billion euros have been made up of 6 billion euros, which have been appearing in the budget since 2009, but of course it never comes to a wonderful budget increase, but simply to reflect false forecasts, to the fat Morgana of a debt that never and never. Minister of Finance Löger, like many of his predecessors, once again provided for these three instalments of debt payments by 2020, can be seen in the Budget Supplement to Development Cooperation. He does exactly this process again, with about 600 million of the OECD's appeal from 2015 – when we had the last DAC Peer Review and Austria, was specifically told the Ministry of Finance, we can only make this preview of debt after the Paris Club has made this decision – completely ignoring. The Paris Club has just not made this decision yet, but the figures can be found in the budget supplement. In the last Budget Committee, the Minister of Finance again said that he expected the Sudan to be discharged in the near future because of the information he has. This is not the case now, it has not been the case for ten years. If this goes on, you will have made some EUR 1.66 billion for the budget of EUR 12.20 billion, which is on the paper, but which is not real. This is not just a completely wrong budgetary policy, it is a reflection of false facts, and I do not understand why you continue to do so. In addition, if one deepens into the EZA template, the ODA path, when these wrong-forward repayments are no longer available from 2021 – and we have been cheated by OECD from 0.3 percent for our 2017 ODA quota – will fall to 0.25 and 0.24 percent of GNI in 2022. If the commitment of the government programme is to develop in the direction of 0.7 percent, then, Minister of Finance, this is the wrong direction. It goes down, but we have to go up from 0.3 to 0.7 percent. This is not a lighthouse that you present to us, but another black and blue gravelight.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53908	Mr Angerer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53929	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are at the end of a budget debate and it is quite clear, as I said at the beginning of the debate, that the opposition is to criticise a budget because there are simply different political ways – which are set out in a budget with figures – to introduce measures in a country. This week – the Minister has already mentioned it – was not a vote of polemics and allegations, which are simply not true, and where things have been misrepresented. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Knes.]] One of these claims by Kai Jan Krainer – unfortunately he is not in the room again – I cannot, of course, leave here as a Carinthian. He used the hypo once again and said that 800 million euros, the damage you caused to Carinthia, is now going back. I have already promised him in committee that I will explain this to him once again because he asked the question that it should actually be 1.2 billion euros at the end. [[Abg. Brückl: For the seventh time!]] That's true, it'll be 1.2 billion euros at the end. As this bill is composed, I will now present to you a brief statement, as a result of a decision by the European Commission – that is the aid procedure of Bavaria – that Bavaria had EUR 4.8 billion in the mortgage, at the time when Mr Schieder, the current SPÖ Klubobmann, and the then Finance Minister Pröll bought back the mortgage from Bavaria for this amount; not for a euro, as always claimed. This EUR 4.8 billion – for which there is a request from me from 2016 – was served by the Hypo by the end of 2012 at EUR 2.323 billion, which means that so much has already been repaid, has flown to Bavaria. If one now takes the rest of this 2,477 billion euros and divides by two, then there are just 1.23 billion euros, that is 50 percent from the general comparison, and that is the amount that Austria has transferred to Bavaria as an advance for hypoverting. Now, much more comes out of the hypo-use, and of course, the Bavaria knew that. This return is nothing but money from the exploitation that Austria has already transferred to Bavaria. Bavaria already has over 3 billion euros. In contrast to Carinthia – this is the next damage that Mr. Kaiser and Mrs. Schaunig have done – the Bavaria also have an improvement clause inside and will receive more than 4 billion from the exploitation. This means that all that was or should have been in the mortgage at the time is going back to Bavaria. Nor does it come about that at one of the last meetings on the Court of Auditors report, Mrs Griss made a request that the Court of Auditors might also be able to bring a ministerial complaint in order to lay down the responsibility there. Perhaps you can read this again in the Griss report, which is simply the facts. As far as the EUR 1.2 billion from Carinthia is concerned, this is also an interesting thing. There is an offer from then Minister of Finance Spindelegger to Carinthia – also defined in the Hypo Committee and to read in a protocol – which Carinthia offered a general comparison of 500 million euros. This has not been accepted by Mrs Schaunig and Mr Kaiser. Why the EUR 1.2 billion paid at the end of the year and thus caused a further EUR 700 million damage to Carinthia, will still have to be clarified in a committee of inquiry in the Carinthian Landtag. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e53981	Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54002	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! If you listen to colleagues Angerer, you actually have to conclude that the hypo story of the Carinthians was a super business anyway and that you should make such a thing more often. [[Abg. Anger: Another polemic!]] Let me now come to the government reproaches in the budget! Also in subheading 23, where the civil servants' pensions are at home, the government has hidden its propaganda again super. Today we read in the “Kurier” that the government is planning a new attack on pension privileges. Very nice has the government communication delivered it in such a way that the “Kurier” could also take it into its title. And that sounds great! The same right for all, an equal and common pension right for all Austrians would actually be high in time. The average official's pension is three times as high as the average ASVG-pension, and there are some reasons why this is so. For example, on average, officials are higher qualified, and there is no maximum contribution base limit in the right of retirement, but there are also inaccurate reasons for this. For example, the pension account in the ASVG applies from the year 55 onwards and with the officials only from the year 76. Or: If you are applying for an incapacity pension as an employee, then it will be checked which other activities are They can be referred to, but when it comes to an incapacity pension for an official, you can see if he is in his office or not. It is much easier, therefore, to become unfit as an official for work than to become an employee. If you, dear citizens, are now waiting for the announced attack on pension privileges by the new Federal Government, for the much-quoted new justice, I must unfortunately disappoint you. No harmonisation of pension systems is foreseen, because the new justice takes place only where the gentlemen and the ladies like it. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Some 9 billion euros flow from the budget to the civil servants' pensions, and this is about as much as a grant to be paid in the entire social security pensions. The Minister of Staff, Vice-Chancellor Strache, pointed out that there are no reforms on this point. So this new justice, the “time for new ones, ” is a white sales hat. The Minister of Finance should perhaps look at this misconstruction: The right to serve the officials now makes the Vice-Cancellor's Office. While the official is working, the respective ministry is responsible for him and has the cost of reference. If he's retired, then he's on the bill of the Ministry of Finance. This is, of course, illogical, because the Ministries can write the people they want to take away, and then the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance pay is fine. This is a misconstruction that leads to misincentives, and it should be stepped in once.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54048	Mr Hanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54069	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the end of a long budget debate, I would like to make one more point: The double budget 2018/2019 introduces a change of time, a paradigm change! For the first time in 65 years, new debts have not been made at the federal level. And that's the positive news, and it deserves a lot of applause. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I find the opinion of Mr Krainer, who says: No, this paradigm change is not true, because the debt has already fallen nominally in 2016, 2017. – I have now looked at this more precisely, because I find it really remarkable. The first finding is: In the 2017 financial year, the Republic had to refinance almost 7 billion euros of debt via the OeBFA. This is where the question arises: How is the nominal debt going back? – It is clear that the debt level at the federal level has reached the highest level of history, namely 212 billion euros, only in the general public view, that is true, they have declined nominally. Why? – In 2013 the banks, the Heta and the KA finance, were nationalised, the debt was nationalized, however the assets were not assessed. Now the assets were realized in these resolution banks, so there was a nominal reduction of debt. Nevertheless, the banks cost us a lot of money. So: It is true that this paradigm change will only begin with the 2019 budget, because in 2018 we also need funding. It is also true that there is still a minus in 2019 structurally. Of course, the new budget is carried by the good economy, by the low interest rates. But there is a view into medium-term financial planning, because, of course, surpluses are budgeted over the next few years. Notablely, I think that 2022 will even be budgeted structurally, even if we take account of the economic effects. You have to say, of course: There are uncertainties; we do not know how the economy is developing, the interest rate level, the unemployment, but only the goal of reducing debt, not only relative, but also absolute, I consider to be a remarkable, very, very correct one, and therefore the double budget 2018/2019 and medium-term financial planning by 2022 is also an excellent and very, very good for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to stress that in the past, of course, not everything was bad. I find it remarkable how the Republic managed its debts. A thank you to the OeBFA, which I believe has done excellent work. Of course, carried by an international interest rate environment, it has succeeded in significantly reducing the effective interest rate of the total debt. We are now 2.47 percent. The share of interest on gross domestic product is falling significantly. This is very, very pleasing. We will be somewhere at 1.6 percent, at 3.5 percent. Even if interest rates will rise in the next few years, and experts assume that interest rates will decrease because OeBFA, of course, on behalf of politics, the debt of God was very long-term financed. I also find it remarkable that the state has issued negative interest-rate bonds. This testifies to the good credit quality of Austria's economic location that investors are willing to even pay money if they give money to the Republic. A hundred-year bond was even issued. This shows clear confidence in the financial market. Finally, I would like to say: Better than to manage debt well, it is natural to stop making new debts. And that happens in the future, and I am very pleased about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54129	Mrs Margreiter is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54151	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Appreciated spectators on the gallery, in front of the screens and televisions at home! Mr Anger! The truth is obviously in the eye of the viewer. [[Abg. Haider: Different viewers!]] I would like to give Mr Rossmann a number of points and join in his remarks. The priorities in this budget really give the impression that the richest 5 percent of this country have met, their wishes are down, and in the end, the government is putting this into one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here you can only stress once again and again: Electoral Donations, especially to the EIA, are obviously paying off, and these election donations certainly do not come from single women or women in precarious work conditions or from low-income families and also from people with part-time jobs, often even several to get through the rounds, to do this work alongside training and care obligations and to achieve income. And this list could still be continued very, very long, that list of people for which nothing can be found in this budget. On the contrary! It is shortened, shortened in many areas, such as large company auditors, shortened in justice, health, the economy and there, we heard yesterday, in a very essential area such as the start-ups or the EPUs. There is also a reduction in education, universities and only where it concerns models for combating long-term and old-age unemployment, in action 20 000, in the employment bonus and in general in the AMS. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jeitler-Cincelli.]] In short, there is a redistribution from bottom to top. And you keep trying to blur the army of marketing and communication experts for which there seems to be no end of money, while in Upper Austria under Black-Blue now you also have to pay for children's afternoon care and parents have to get into the bag. They're trying to blur that! With this budget, students have to pay some more tuition fees, and you are punishing them because they, in addition to their studies through work, finance exactly that very thing. And likewise today, because of your policy, we have to find that children of people with lower incomes are less valuable to the state. They justify this by the fact that those who do more should also be relieved more. I'm telling you today as a mother of three daughters: If you really have any idea of real life out there, you know that performance does not depend on income alone, only if you are a woman. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Deimek: The SPÖ were the women who raised children at home, nothing worth it!]] Mr. Finanzminister and honourable Member of the ÖVP, if you are always talking about reducing debt for our future generations: It is their party that has always been in the Federal Government for a few years and has for many, many years been the Minister of Finance. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] And please tell your coalition partner FPÖ, because it is not as you, Mr Anger, represent it. [[Abg. Haider: Angerer is his name!]] It's not just the hypo scandal that explains that you left behind a mountain of debt and really a disaster, but very, very much more. But don't worry, there goes up again with our Social Democratic Peter Kaiser and his team. In short: My understanding of change does not correspond to this budget as has been said. Politics with a view of the future looks completely different! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54238	Mr Neubauer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. [[Abg. Neubauer is not in the meeting room.]] Mr. Neubauer? - He's not here. Then let us take Mrs Selma Yildirim. [[Call the SPÖ: She's here!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54273	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would particularly like to greet my colleagues in the financial administration, in the financial offices and in the customs offices and thank them for their great work. As I hear the budget debates and the speeches of my previous speakers, I think: What will happen to you when you hear our current Minister of Finance proudly refer to the ÖVP Finance Ministers of the past 18 years and say: We cut by 30 percent in financial management!Unknown term type: "%s".? What it means to be active in more areas of work with more effort of 30 per cent less staff, which, I believe, can certainly impress you, Mr Minister, on your visits to the financial offices, on the staff of the financial and customs administration. I think it is very ideological, Mr ÖVP's head and you too, Mr Deputies of the FPÖ, when you say: less state, less taxes. Well, if that's not ideological, please what is it? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: Good! Very good!]] [[Abg. Deimek: You already know that the other system has been advocated years ago, the USSR, the ČSSR, the GDR and so on?]] Less state, less taxes means less money for education, less money for health, less money for the police, even if we are currently and temporarily taking up police again. This means less money for the judiciary, for the judiciary and for the prosecutors. That means if you say less state and less taxes. And I'm surprised you say this proudly, because where, if not in the financial management, should we be increased? My colleague will then carry out more detail on how often an auditor, an auditor or a large-scale auditor calculates himself. Because the topic I would like to say that security is so foreordainable: Security also means legal certainty, security also means legal protection. That means that a working administrative device is important. And social security only works if we have a very strong financial management, and it is not about new taxes, but only about carrying out those taxes and tax laws that have already been decided. That's important, and that's what we're saying: This is at risk, and it has nothing to do with polemics, and that has nothing to do with false facts. These are the facts that you too, Mr Minister, confirm to us, namely these massive cuts that have occurred over the last 18 years. That is what disillusions me in this debate with this budget. It's gonna get tougher and worse. As I said, my colleague will then do even more as the colleagues of the GPLA, who now, after this so much quoted reform of the GPLA, are to do 100 percent of the work with 50 percent less staff, i.e. only 50 percent of the staff. What does the quality of work look like? I am no longer surprised that the industrial union is praising the government almost weekly and why it is to the former President of the Chamber of Commerce Leitl is almost embarrassing, who was still a person of the former social partners. [[Abg. Deimek: Go to China if that's so great for you!]] So you can't be proud in this sense. I think this is very sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54343	I can warmly welcome the students of the New Middle School from Köflach on our ranks. I'm glad you're here! [[General condolences.]] Mr Dominik Schrott has been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54376	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Save in time, so you're in trouble! – This good old wisdom must also apply to our household. The current good figures from the economy will help us to get through without any new indebtedness. The times when we have decided on budgets far beyond the conditions are finally over. Our children and children will thank us. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to reducing the debt ratio, we also want to reduce taxes and expenditure. For years, the Austrian site has suffered from an international tax rate. In hardly any other country the loads are as high as with us. This is especially true of the working people. Imagine: Each net euro earned is additionally taxed with 89 cents. The OECD track is 62 cents. In scientific studies, therefore, we will be prophesied: If we don't change something now, Austria threatens to descend in the long term. That must not happen, ladies and gentlemen. We can't let that happen! The high tax rate of currently approximately 43 percent in the legislative period to be reduced to 40 percent is therefore also a priority concern of our Federal Government. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] High house! I am glad and proud that this government has a very clear credo, namely that the discharge is the foundation of the entire fiscal and budgetary policy. If you want to relieve, you also have to tighten the belt in your own area. One thing is clear: We do not save at the expense of people and not at the expense of the next generations. No, no, no, We have to put on the savings fund in the system, the state, ourselves. This budget saves in the case of state support, includes reductions in personnel costs by only re-occupied each third planning post. Another large part concerns the non-Austrian. We save on minimum security for those entitled to asylum and on adjustments to family allowances for children abroad. At the same time, I am grateful for the fact that we in Parliament have already been able to implement first measures to relieve people. I recall the family bonus, the reduction of unemployment insurance contributions or the reduction of the turnover tax on nights spent in tourism from 13 to 10 percent. We have therefore kept a strong economic engine, tourism, more competitive, we have relieved the working people, that is, our providers in society, and we have given back almost a million families – and they are the pillars of our society. Ladies and gentlemen! We have taken action to change this country positively. The change has begun. I'll invite you all: Be with me!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54422	Mrs Greiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54444	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Save the system and not the people! [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] – Thus the much claimed title of the speeches of the representatives of the government parties and the Federal Government in the last few days. I asked the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany yesterday how many employees are in his cabinet. [[Call the FPÖ: Please! Not again!]] I didn't hear a specific number. We have heard from our own information of 41. That is 20 more than before at Federal Chancellor Christian Kern. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] An ÖVP college has therefore mentioned that Kurz saves 44 000 euros in its cabinet. 44 000 euros saving more than 20 employees [[Call to the ÖVP:The speech of the Chamber of Workers...!]] How's it going? Do they work for free? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Nehammer: 3.4 million euros more!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The AMS funds – I know that is not important to you – were reduced by EUR 600 million. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[New calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Action 20 000 is suspended. The Minister of Finance himself spoke of a sham, of a senseless action. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today at lunch, the Minister of Social Affairs was here and said: [[Call at the FPÖ:This afternoon she was there too!]] Only a few have benefited from this 20 000 action. – There were 4,000, by the way. She said: The mass of the unemployed has nothing of it, so it is unfair. – Do you know what's wrong? – A person who is over 50 and unemployed, who is unable to resist the opportunity to work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] What do experts say about the removal of this action 20 000? [[Call the FPÖ: That it is right!]] Many national and international experts do not understand this deletion. [[Abg. Höbart: The Renner Institute experts, yes!]] On the contrary: The basic tenor is that it is right now, where we have a really good economy, that we were going to actively pursue employment policy and set incentives, because the forecasts say that there will unfortunately be more unemployed again from 2020 onward. [[Abg. Singer: Socialist experts, right?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It would now be appropriate for the long-term unemployed over 50 and precarious workers. Saving in this area is irrational and incomprehensible. The Federal Government completely overlooks the social relevance on this issue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] Mr. Finanzminister Löger, I spoke to you in committee about the combined savings on large-scale auditors, and you said that you would, of course, continue to take good action by the previous government. Mr Minister, I would like to speak to you. I assume you're not going to save on large-scale auditors. We know that these are expected to be 30 times and bring them at least 600 000 euros a year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One last point: This conceptual attack on the AUVA is really essential. [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] How are patients and staff involved in such a discussion on their backs? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Have you still not understood?]] – Mr Collegue, I hope to come. You never go to the accident hospital! I was there recently and was able to convince myself how excellent people work there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government does not save in the system – I remember the 66 million euros of basket money for the rulers. [[Call the FPÖ:Falchinformation!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vocal]] These people are saving people, and we are not carrying that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54708	Next word reported: Mr Wolfgang Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54729	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! As Mrs Greiner has just spoken about AUVA: In Upper Austria, where the AUVA Hospital is located right next to the General Hospital, it was not possible to communicate digitally until recently – I do not know if that is possible – so that findings from the accident hospital could have been passed on directly to the General Hospital. It was necessary to make the whole investigation from the beginning. If there is no need for action, I wonder where else we should start. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As half of this is always the opinion that the plan posts would not be less: I have been a single entrepreneur since 1984 and know how difficult it is to anticipate how the future work world and the future employment situation will work out and how to react to where you may be able to get the corresponding staff in the future. But one thing has to be clear: If we are too late for us to have a huge deficit in ten years with the necessary officials – who are doing the best work for this country and then still have to be available – and if you think that from the outset you can simply cross everything and hack it all over with regard to the plan posts, it will completely fail in its adoption. In fact, it is necessary to ensure, at some point, that sufficient staff is available in ten years' time. It may also be that more people need to be recruited in the short term. In the sum of things, however, we will actually reduce the plan posts accordingly in order to create a slim state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the last three days, I have written down a few words that have been brought by colleagues. For example, former Federal Chancellor Kern has said here at the speaker's desk that the official apparatus is being bloated. – I think I just explained that this will not be the case. [[Abg. Drozda: He's right!]] - No, not at all! I just explained that we will have fewer plan posts in the future. Or he, core, speaks of the minimum pensions of 1,200 euros. – Where were the previous governments, why did they not do that before? We have now introduced this. It is an absolute necessity in this country that at last those providers who are responsible for the fact that something goes further in this country can have more than those who only want to live in the social hammock. We will be able to prevent that from happening in this government. I would like to say something about Mr Strolz's statement that the Minister of Finance is a ‘different’ person, he does not accept any reforms: It seems to me to the NEOS as if they always knew everything better, what has been and should have been done in the past, but for the future they remain guilty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Double builder]] You have to put in place the reform proposals, which then ensure that it is moving forward in this Republic! Or colleague Rossmann: no turn of time, a “neoliberal turn of time. ” . I would like, as so many, to recommend to Mr Rossmann once and for all, to say why he is speaking of Neoliberalism today. [[Abg. Loacker: So neoliberals are already us!]] [[Rejoicing with the NEOS]] Neoliberalism was introduced in the 1930s to end a world economic crisis. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] Today, on the contrary, it is precisely what we are talking about as a result of a global economic crisis. This is a complete misunderstanding of the terms. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] And then the colleague of the arbitration: It is all “beautifully colored. ” We save in the system – I don't know how often we heard that – or do we save people? – The opposition must, I believe, first find itself, go inside and seek a proper club debate. But one thing is clear: It would have been more intelligent for the opposition to say nothing more than what she said. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In this general attack, the opposition shoots its powder much too fast. It's being shot with cannons on cracks. But much worse is: You have lost the orientation completely in this canonades scenario, you are already sinking your own ships with your unscrupulous polemics.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54834	Next speaker: Mr Markus Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54856	Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! I must start by thanking you for having followed this debate in a very detailed and persistent manner. However, if you say that these debates were very strongly ideological, I can only give you my personal impression: For a good part of this ideology, you were responsible with your speeches. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, of course, you are lucky to link this budget to a time of high economic growth. They are only available from the BIG additional revenue of 100 million euros. It will deliver an additional 110 million euros to the ÖBIB – as the economy is moving forward – in 2019 even 142 million euros. At the same time, for universities, BIG expenditure is reduced by 17.4 million euros. That's the excitement again: But the universities receive less money than the 17.4 million euros. That means you're actually saving yourself those rents. There's this basket money with you, as it were. It is difficult for you to present a budget in which certain risks are not covered – the care rules and the training guarantee for young people up to 25 from 2019 have already been addressed several times. Of course, with this budget focus, which we – and that is, I believe, also look at the right of opposition. To relieve tourism with this VAT reduction, we do not see it as a targeted promotion for tourism, because there is a distribution of money with the casting can. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They make a reduction in the family allowance, which only benefits those who pay wage tax, which is why many children in that country have nothing to do with it. This is a disparity. They reduce the contributions to unemployment insurance for low incomes and, at the same time, they no longer do unemployment insurance measures, thus playing against two groups which have quite legitimate interests. It should also be mentioned, I believe, if you stand out here constantly and say that every child with over 30 000 euros of debt comes to the world, that the wealth with which every child is equipped at birth is significantly higher than the debt with which it comes to the world. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] In this budgetary process – a more fundamental discussion – there is a need for transparency. I think we have shown that, for example, we do not find the accounting agency in participation control. There, too, the colleagues from FPÖ and the ÖVP are called upon to demand this transparency. That is really what we have missed from the opposition, I think, together, namely to ensure transparency in the committees. For example, we still do not have the answers to the questions about the UG 42 and 43: Agriculture and the environment, which we have put in the Committee on Budgets. That's why: We demand transparency, because the task of this House is to release a budget with which the government can work. We are already known and aware that the government is naturally trying to work out as many spaces as possible, but our task here is to exercise control. That is why I would like to say one more thing: It was always consensus in this House that the changes in budget design and budget laws are a matter of consensus. But you have left this path with this budget. To set the deadline for the budget framework in autumn was not a consensus, it was not a majority opinion in this House. You should also really consider carefully whether the introduction of the Secretary-General is compatible with our democratically legitimate principles. These are the tasks that we have to carry out together. I would like us to fight for it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54941	Next speaker: Mrs Angela Baumgartner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e54965	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and also at home in front of the screens! Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensation as part of the financial chapter is particularly interesting for the municipalities. They do a lot and will have to do more and more work in the future. This budget is an important contribution and an important contribution to it, which is the focus of our Minister for Finance. This is very important for our rural area. As mayor of a 1,200-inhabitant community, I know how important it is to maintain the structures of a small community. In my municipality of Sulz in the Weinviertel we still have a pretty good infrastructure. We have a department store, a doctor and a hairdresser. We have three hosts, a bank, a school, two kindergartens and some farms. And what is also extremely important for the social life of a community: We have a lot of clubs. The construction of apartments will begin in the next few weeks. We offer young and cared for living under one roof. You have to create opportunities for young people to keep them in the village, while at the same time ensuring that older people can spend their evenings in their usual surroundings. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] I would like to highlight some of the priorities that are very important to me. Countries and municipalities receive more than 300 million euros per year for additional expenses in the areas of health, care and social care. The care fund will also be extended to 2021 and increased by 4.5 percent annually from 350 million euros per year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] There are also 18 million euros per year for the extension of the offer of hospice and palliative equipment. ............................................................................................................................................................ And very important: Article 15a agreement to promote 24-hour care has been extended. Ladies and gentlemen, this is social policy! Digitalization also enables young women to reconcile work and family. For this it is important to create childcare places. We are currently planning this in my community. In order to implement and maintain all of this, it takes a lively economy and infrastructure comparable to that of the city. With the annual Structural Funds of 16 million euros, we are setting up a further measure for the communities that are plagued or threatened by emigration. They are particularly supported to be able to take measures to keep them attractive. There's a lot to do. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget lays the foundation for this and creates good conditions so that we can be proud of the next generation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55026	Next, Mr Maximilian Linder has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55050	Two mayors at the end of the budget: That's a good omen, yellow, dear colleague! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues from the SPÖ and the Pilz list, imagine that you are fighting drowning on the high seas! The water is always higher, you fight and fight – one, two hours – and suddenly you get a rescue ring. They are happy and they create strength. [[Abg. Noll: When it comes to who throws it to me!]] And after two hours the ring will be taken away from you again, and you will fight against drowning again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lindner.]] - That's exactly what happens in action 20,000. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] People who are unemployed are thrown into public places somewhere to release them after two years. That's reality. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Greiner and Mr Lindner.]] We ourselves have employed two unemployed people in our community. The first thing I had to say to everyone at the interview was: Ladies and gentlemen, after two years the working relationship has ended. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Greiner.]] Because of the Job Framework Plan, you have no chance to employ someone longer. That's the truth! In this way, 90 percent of the jobs created are the same. [[New call of the abg. Greiner.]] They have to be released after two years. [[Abg. Musical: Why?]] – Because there is no free jobs for it, because there is a strict establishment plan to comply with. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is exactly what has happened: The people were given sand in their eyes and they said: Hurra, you'll be Get jobs! – This is not the reality! The second thing that happens to it is: You don't do any more than blow up public administration. Explain to the staff in the municipal office that for two years they had a more labor force that will be released after that, and then they will have to do the same work on their own again! - That's the next problem. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - No, my lady! Without a note being written more, a force will suddenly be stopped, which will then be released. I think the problem with this action is: She has no sustainability, she's a really short sage-over line that doesn't spend anymore. The second is – and this has affected me a little bit –: Our community is located 15 or 17 kilometers from Villach, and we had an application from the large community of Villach. The lady – she was 57 years old – told me quite clearly: But you can't ask me to drive from Villach to Afritz to work. – That was a little for me to think about. I wonder whether all the people who have been reported as unemployed today are actually willing to work. So much for it. That you, ladies and gentlemen, can also create jobs in other ways is shown by the Community investment law. With the Municipal Investment Act, it was planned to trigger EUR 750 million in investment with EUR 175 million in funding to the municipalities. So far, 52.6 million euros have been raised, and with this 52.6 million euros, 584 million has already been made available for investment. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call: Mr Colleague, who has decided to do so]] If you calculate this, we'll get 2 billion euros of investment. 2 billions of investment means jobs in the private sector, sustainable jobs. So, ladies and gentlemen, we understand economic policy. This is how we understand the creation of jobs that are sustainable. One more thing: It was noted that these 175 million euros had been carefully calculated. In contrast to the calculation of Minister Stöger, a good measure would be the abolition of the care regime, which has estimated 100 million euros for this, and we communities today no longer know how we will apply the remaining 400 or 500 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] Thank God, Minister of Finance Löger said: We will find a solution, and I hope that we will find something in favour of the communities that are suitable and feasible. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we from the ÖVP and FPÖ coalition understand economic and labour policy in such a way that it is calculated in a sustainable and honest way. I believe that with this budget we have provided proof that it is sustainable, honest and truly beneficial to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55188	I do not have any more words to speak about this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to a number of votes. I therefore ask the staff to get out of the Members' ranks. Thank you many times. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law, with the Federal Financial Framework Act 2018 to 2021 and the Federal Financial Framework Act 2019 to 2022, including the title and receipt in 64 of the Supplements, taking into account the changes resulting from the Committee's report in 102 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever gives his consent in the third reading may give a corresponding sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 4 in the order in which they are put in place. Motion for a resolution by Mr Bayr, colleagues, on ‘The increase in funds for development cooperation and assistance in the event of disasters abroad’. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, on ‘The increase in the basic remuneration for basic defence workers’. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr.in Hammerschmid, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Promoting start-ups'. Whoever is in favour of this request, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Bißmann, colleagues and colleagues on “Promoting organic farming, especially in the production, distribution and export of vegetables & fruit”. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues on the fight against child poverty in Austria. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, colleagues, on "To ensure the financing of measures for active labour market policies for young people up to the age of 25, older long-term unemployed and recognised refugees". Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Bundesfinanzgesetz 2018 together with investments in 13 of the supplements. Hiezu there is the following request regarding Appendix I Federal Estimate 2018: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Double-builder for separate vote with regard to subheadings 01 to 06, Mr Wittmann's request for a separate vote on subheading 02. First of all, I will vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2018, in order to put the parts affected by the demand for separate vote to the vote. I will have the resolutions submitted to the draft law of the Federal Finance Act 2018, together with the amendments to the Annexes, vote after the third reading in the order of submission. Appendices I to IV Federal estimate 2018 We shall now proceed to a separate vote on subheadings 01 and 03 to 06 as amended by the Government template. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on division 02 as amended by the Government template. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the remaining parts of Appendix I, including overall summaries, and on Appendix II Federal staff who provides for third parties – gross representation 2018, Annex III Financing, exchange of currencies – gross representation 2018 and Appendix IV Staff Plan 2018, in each case in the version of the Government template. I ask those members who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Text of the Federal Finance Act 2018 Now we reach the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2018 and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2018 and investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give the draft law a sign at third reading. – This is accepted by the majority at the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 5 in the order in which they are put in place. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Wittmann, Members of Parliament, on ‘no ‘Körberlgeld’ for BK Kurz and VK Strache from the Austrian taxpayer’s tax money’. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Mario Lindner, colleagues, on ‘No cuts in family consultations’. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Dr.in Hammerschmid, colleagues on the development of day-to-day schools. Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Claudia Gamon, Members of Parliament, on the increase in the budget of the Science Fund. Who is speaking out for this?– That's the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr.in Hammerschmid, colleagues on ‘Digitalisation in the field of education’. Who is in favour of this proposal? – That's the minority. Rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on 'the continuation of the 20 000 employment action'. Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on 'valuable and fair minimum pensions'. Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. Rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Stöger, colleagues, on ‘the financing of the abolition of the right to care’. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Stöger, colleagues, on the right to a part-time pension. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Dr.in Rendi-Wagner, colleagues on ‘the planned resolution of the General Insurance Institute’. Whoever comes in for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bruno Rossmann, colleagues on 'Eco-Social Tax Reform'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We will now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Federal Finance Act 2019, together with investments. Hiezu is required regarding Appendix I – Federal estimate 2019: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Double-trailer for separate vote with regard to subheadings 01 to 06; Mr Wittmann's request for a separate vote on subheading 02. First of all, I will vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2019, in which I will vote the parts affected by the request for separate vote. I will have the resolution tabled on the draft Federal Finance Act 2019, together with amendments to the Annexes, vote in the order of submission following the third reading. Appendix I Federal estimate 2019 We shall proceed to a separate vote on subheadings 01 and 03 to 06 in the version of the Government template. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. We come to a separate vote on sub-division 02, as amended by the Government document 14 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 104 of the Supplements. Who is speaking out for this? – This is accepted by a majority. Now we are voting on the remaining parts of Appendix I – Federal Estimate 2019, including overall overviews (Annexes I.a to I.e) as amended by the Government template 14 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 104 of the Supplements. Whoever speaks for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Annexes II to IV We will also vote on Annex II to the Federal Staff, which is for third parties – gross representation 2019 in the version of the government template. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. Now we come to the vote on Appendix III financing, exchange of currencies – gross representation 2019 and Appendix IV Staff Plan 2019 In each case, in the version of the Government template 14 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 104 of the Supplements. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is accepted by a majority. Text of the Federal Finance Act 2019 We shall now proceed to the vote on the text of the Federal Financial Act 2019, together with the title and receipt of the Government template 14 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 104 of the Supplements. I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2019 and investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also give their agreement at third reading, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled to item 6 in the order in which they are put in place. Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on the approximation of public service law to the private sector. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Claudia Gamon, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, Mr Cox, Mr Cox, Mr De Clercq, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. motion for a resolution by Mr Mag.a Kuntzl, Members of Parliament, on ‘No savings in childcare’. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Strolz, colleagues, on ‘To facilitate an integration foundation’. Who is speaking out for this? – This is the minority. Rejected. Motion for a resolution by Mr Muchitsch, colleagues, on ‘Financing the training guarantee by 25 from 2019’. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. Rejected. That is what the votes are all about. [[Long-term applause with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[17:38:32]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure 6 GOG-NR on the request of Mr Michael Bernhard, colleagues on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 para. 1 GOG-NR to investigate political responsibility in connection with the Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft system from the beginning of 2000 to the end of 2016 (1/US) (70 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55748	We are now coming to item 7. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Andreas Ottenschlager. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55778	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's not an easy task right now. Ladies and gentlemen! With today's decision, we are implementing what we have already guaranteed before the National Council election, namely a continuation of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. We will also do transparent information in the third edition. This, of course, means that we are conducting complete investigations, so we have expanded the subject matter of the Rules of Procedure Committee by one year, i.e. until the end of 2017. We thus ensure that, in addition to the Eurofighter Task Force set up by former Federal Minister Doskozil, we can also examine whether files and documents have been retained in the second Eurofighter Investigation Committee. In particular, the file template of the Altmannsdorf comparison, which has been secret to date, naturally raises questions. It will hardly be anyone who believes that this was actually accidentally found in a safe of the Ministry of Defence when a political group presented it to him in the U Committee. We will therefore examine this and much more in the coming months. In the interests of an efficient work of this body, of course, the new findings should be the priority. We are examining a causa to which we have already had two committees of inquiry which have already been examined several times by the Court of Auditors, which have been engaged in numerous task forces and on which several criminal and civil proceedings are taking place. So a double track is hopefully not in our sense. It is clear that we in this committee have the political responsibility to clarify. Ladies and gentlemen, we have full confidence in our investigative authorities, and our work is not that of a replacement state attorney. As the EIA Group leader, I am looking forward to the in-depth information work on this committee. As an entrepreneur, I would like to use my understanding to bring on the one hand the necessary transparency to the events surrounding the Causa Eurofighter and, on the other hand, to draw political lessons for the future. I am pleased that I have a very strong, broad team on my side, the expertise that my fellow Members will bring in, and I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that constructive cooperation on this committee will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55833	Next speaker: Mr Rudolf Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55858	Madam President. Dear colleagues! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today's report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure here in the National Council formalises the conclusion, and tomorrow we will hold the first meeting of the third Eurofighter Examining Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! We have the fact that we now have to continue the investigation or carry out a third investigation, thanks to the fact that national elections have come in between. Before the National Council election, all parties have expressed their support for a new edition, since only one and a half of the research items have been reviewed in the second Eurofighter Committee and the rest have not yet been reviewed. That is why we also support this Committee of Inquiry. Mr Bernhard has tabled the motion and a discussion has been held in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. A delay was made and an adaptation of the application was made at the end of 2017. The SPÖ stands for clarification, we want to clarify the illegal payment flows that happened at the time. We also want to clarify the information situation about why the then black and blue government has opted for the Eurofighter within a few hours, including the decision-making basis and the fulfilment of the requirement to provide information. That is why we have also agreed to the establishment of this committee, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe another one: As has already been said, an addition has already been made. We simply want to bring some light to the Darknet Eurofighter together with the other parties. I invite everyone to do something with us so that the taxpayer who has done a lot of things there can also understand what this money has been spent on and who may have received undue payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55895	Mr Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55919	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not repeat what my two previous speakers said. We liberals have guaranteed before the National Council elections that there will be a continuation of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, and we keep this promise. However, Mr Ottenschlager has already made a real comment: The main task of this Committee will be to identify those areas which have not yet been examined in the light of political responsibility. This means that we will have to start at the first meetings. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has unanimously outlined the subject of the investigation, and we will stick to it and make it clear consistently. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55956	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e55980	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! It is a great day for us, because the re-establishment of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, the establishment of the Third Eurofighter Investigation Committee, is due to a NEOS initiative. I should like to point out that all the political groups in the last National Council election campaign have promised to do so, so we are very grateful for the fact that all the political groups are taking a lead in this. However, I would also like to read something to you, because it was already a bit normed that ÖVP and FPÖ say they want to look at what Doskozil organised in this way last year, and social democracy would like to see what the first black and blue government organised. I think that's the wrong match. I would like to get out of the “Kurier ” of the 9th century. February 2018, it is about an opinion of the Munich Public Prosecutor's Office. ‘At the beginning of 2017, the Authority stated that there were ‘a few points’ for bribery because the recipients of smear payments could not be found until then. According to the investigators, it was found that three-digit million amounts had been used for the transaction's legal compensation operations without an investment in return for unclear purposes, it was stated on Friday. However, only a negligent supervisory infringement would have to be imposed on the company. The fine should take advantage of the advantages that Airbus suspected to have drawn.” We have therefore also found in Munich that Airbus has gained at least €81.5 million through its counter-businesses. The question of political responsibility, which, of course, goes a long way back, is: How did the payments of almost 100 million euros landed in different letterbox companies affect the decisions in Austria, politics and administration? We know from the first and second investigative committee that the Republic of Austria was inexorably overburdened by negotiating with a global group at a level. The Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Financial Procuratorship, the Court of Auditors, all of them were busy, and there were a very large number of mistakes that happened at the time. If we want to draw our conclusions from the past – yes, that goes until the end of the year 2017 – then we also have to – and that is, I think, It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have the courage to bring about changes. As regards Hypo Alpe-Adria, we had already reported on the Committee of Inquiry, according to which we had clear indications of how we could put our Republic forward in the future. And we also had more, very concrete, reform proposals after the last Eurofighter investigation committee. I would just like to make three or four points in the near future. At the time, we have found that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen the economic and corruption prosecutorship, since it is clearly under-occupied for such large cases. We have found that our prosecutors and prosecutors need freedom of guidance in order to act as independent justice. We have found that there is a need for a public hearing of ministerial candidates in order to ensure that our Republic and the highest federal institutions are put in the right hands. We have also found that there is a need for a cooling-off phase for former ministers, because there are massive grey zones. There were ministers of the first and second black and blue governments who were directly transferred from the government bank to Airbus's side, saying and writing 400 000, 500 000 euros. That was not illegal, but it was at least difficult to argue how such a thing could happen. We should therefore use the third Committee of Inquiry to work out the issue of Eurofighter in fact on a socio-political and evidence-based basis, without putting party policy in the foreground. We NEOS will not participate in the black and blue government of the zeros where it is not necessary to tear in front of the curtain, nor the former Minister Doskozil. We want to cover the issues and then we want to draw lessons from them so that no tax money is wasted in the future. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56050	Next speaker: Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56072	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is not to be believed, but hardly more than four months after the fishing of this federal government, Parliament is already forced to use two committee of inquiry to highlight the driving of black and blue. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Haider: I don't think it's serious, do I?]] Firstly, the BAT Committee: I would particularly like to thank our security spokesperson Alma Zadić, who has worked intensively over the last few weeks and months, so that a common desire of all opposition parties could be established here. At the BAT committee, we will show as an opposition how the hidden power struggle of ÖVP and FPÖ party frameworks paralyses police state protection. The second committee of inquiry – and I come to this item on the agenda – we want to highlight the driving of black and blue and look at the driving of black and blue in the form of the continuation of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, which was ended before the National Council election. Finally, we want to be able to conclude this embarrassing chapter of the Austrian arms policy on the parliamentary path. It is up to the Governments, but also to Parliament, to provide our federal army with the appropriate means to carry out its tasks. However, the black and blue government, then under a bowl, as the executive committee of international arms lobbyism not only did not satisfy this claim, no, with the purchase of the Eurofighters we did a sineurous sports car, but was not equipped with the important elements, such as headlights, airbags or seats, for cost reasons. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] With regard to the current army budget, we can see that we still cannot afford this sports car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] We should draw our consequences from this and finally draw a final line under the chapter Eurofighter. Perhaps for information, because it is of interest how this Eurofighter fleet affects our budget: A flight, ladies and gentlemen, costs as much as an average annual income of a soldier. The operating costs of the entire fleet for a single year are approximately equivalent to the purchase costs for around 100 trucks or the equipment of 17 000 soldiers with suitable combat suits. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hafenecker]] These are particularly necessary, because if one reads in the annual report of the Federal Parliamentary Committee, these investments are urgently necessary, because army members have complained that the current combat suit in use has 03 gross defects – tearing zippers, tearing seams, clips and push buttons break down – so it is urgently necessary to deal with them sparingly. [[Abg. Rosary: The list of mushrooms believes that one country...!]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Even on the basis of these points, we should be clear that we must finally free our federal army from the Eurofighter's Burden. That is why we in the Committee will work together to monitor the ways of Eurofighter and Airbus money to the black and blue lubrication points, and why, finally, the decision has been made in the way it has been made. We will name the networks of structural corruption which have already been identified in the last committee of inquiry. As a result – and I think this is the concern of all of us – we want to deal with the contract with Airbus together, because we have already taken the first step together, and continue the advertisement against Airbus because of malicious fraud and deception. It should be in all our interest to get us back these 1 billion euros from Airbus. Of course, this new edition of the Black and Blue Federal Government does not also mean a new edition of Eurofighter's complicity. The Committee of Inquiry is important, we are in favour, and we shall also contribute accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56153	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now come to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to approve the request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry in 70 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The Investigation Committee 1/US shall be deemed to have been set up with the approval of the official minutes of this meeting. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:56:07]] Short debate on the request 3/US to set up an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56202	We are now entering the brief debate on the 3/US conference on the establishment of an investigative committee on ‘The political impact on the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BAT Research Committee).’ The request has now been distributed to all Members. The desire is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56456	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in this debate for 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Kai Jan Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56491	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We from SPÖ have already made a request about four weeks ago to investigate the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism and the operations there. [[Call to the ÖVP: And you're blaming!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Blamage!]] There have already been several debates here in this House. This desire was equally concrete, partly much more concrete than for research committees in the past, for example on the hypo. Then the first foul happened. [[Abg. Hammer: Because you're so indignant about bad request...!]] For the first time, President Sobotka has requested an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service on a request to set up a committee of inquiry or on an application for the establishment of an investigative committee. [[Abg. Hammer: That was a real treasure!]] There's never been that before. The content of the opinion has not surprised us at all, for it is – simplified – stated, it is legally unclear whether this is permitted or not. We have known this before, for a simple reason: because there are no decisions of the Constitutional Court to date, which is acceptable or not, because there is no jurisdiction to do so. [[Unrest in the hall]] This did not surprise us – although we must say that at the same meeting of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure, a second committee of inquiry, which was set up just before, was discussed, since there was no such opinion. I assume that this opinion would be exactly the same as in the opinion of the BAT Committee, namely that it is not legally clear, because there is no judicial case for it. The second foul then happened in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. After the government parties have said that the request is too unclear, we have said: What do you want to change?, let's talk about it!, and have made a procrastination request yourself. This request was rejected by the government parties. That was the second foul in this causa. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You have made a wrong request!]] Good! That's snow from yesterday, we picked up this feud glove and yesterday brought in our new desire. [[Abg. Hammer: You would have... Expertise needed!]] [[Keeping a document in height]] We have developed this desire with the list of mushrooms and with the NEOS, we have had the internal and external exams checked. If you think five years of investigation for the BAT committee are too much, I can tell you: Now it's about ten years BAT. There is also the initial opinion of a constitutional judge. I can inform you of this. Dr. Bernd-Christian Funk, University Professor, writes: Subject: BAT study committee. In my view, the version submitted to me fully meets the requirements of the Federal Constitutional Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] The current proposal provides a sound basis for the Committee's work. - Quote. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] I'd say it's relatively simple: Stop the delay! It should be that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is still meeting today, and the BAT Committee can start tomorrow. You know very well that if we had gone to the Constitutional Court, it would have taken another eight weeks. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Would you have made a proper request!]] The subject-matter we are bringing in now covers ten years, namely from 1st century onwards. ==References== March 2018, and it is about “the suspicion of concerted, politically motivated influence by organ managers, other (direct) staff and staff of the BMI’s political office on the performance of the BAT, together with the alleged violation of legal provisions in the period of the first two functional periods [..]” – as I have already said – 1. ==References== ==References== I would like to invite you to hold a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure today and to take note of this request so that we can already use the Committee of Inquiry tomorrow. This is also exactly what Klubobmann Wöginger has promised that if we withdraw our old desire and bring in a new one that will be the timetable. We trust that what is announced will be observed so that we can start the investigation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56623	Next item is the report by Mr Werner Amon. For the more speakers: 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56644	Madam President. 5 minutes speaking time is, of course, little time for a committee to cover ten years, not the Committee, but the investigation period. I also very much regret that the SPÖ president is not here, even when voting on the budget, he was not here. It seems that the budget is too good and he simply could not vote against it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Haider: He withdrew from the club force!]] He just couldn't. Now he's not here. Mr Krainer spoke of two fouls in the last committee. I have to reject that, Mr. Krainer. They regret that the Constitutional Court has not yet taken a decision. Yes, of course, because minority law is a new right, and it is a majority in the Committee to judge whether it is initially of the opinion that the applications are constitutional or not. We were of the opinion that this does not correspond to what is foreseen in the B-VG, namely that it must be a completed act of execution. That was not recognizable and that is why we rejected it. They obviously reached the same conclusion after in-depth consultation with your lawyers and therefore did not dare to go to the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] So it wasn't a foul, but you could have taken the appeal. You didn't. Then you spoke of a second foul, namely that we did not agree to your request for a postponement. If we believe that this is not constitutional, and you have a remedy to go to the Constitutional Court, and do not do so, then it is your case and not a foul on our part. That's what I want to say. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And the third is, it will be an exciting investigation committee. There have been party negotiations today, there is an agreement. I assume you are in favour of this agreement. This is, as it were, also the basic prerequisite for a common procedure. We will make a constructive contribution to this committee, there is indeed a lot to be examined. I told you this last time: In fact, I find it exciting and particularly courageous from the Social Democracy that she wants to talk about those things that the BAT here has found against her own lawyer, against which Dr. Lansky has found heavy espionage accusations. We will take a very close look at this in the Committee of Inquiry, which will become interesting. We shall bring ourselves in accordingly, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56699	The next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Walter Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56723	Madam President. High house! Yes, the SPÖ is good at slalom riding, which is why you also have to make a second pass, where the two other smaller opposition parties are obviously helpful in the course setting and training. You have to acknowledge that you hold with the other opposition parties a little bit different. In the context of this new committee - - - How? [[Abg. Knes: You are sports reporters?]] [[Abg. Knes: You are sports reporters?]] - Of course, it's quite clear. Thank you for finding out. Thank you for also recognizing me to the sports experts. I like it when you praise me, dear comrades. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'm just telling you one thing: What this committee is already doing in advance can be expected to be a more exciting one. I am already hearing that you do not want to stick to a speaking time agreement which has already been negotiated between the clubs. That's how it starts again quite well. The colleague Krainer also develops into one – I think he once existed in some film – Fisimaten-Willy. It seems similar to me that it should move close by. If he feels offended by this, I shall, of course, withdraw it with the expression of the deepest regret. I have to say something else to him: Mr Krainer, yes, I do not want to see me on a second request. In fact, it was your main concern whether the basic decision to prove – in the design is Amon, Rosary, Krainer, Krisper, Zadić – the colleague Krainer can not stand as the second and – because we are in the sport – as a silver medal winner. – Yes, please, you can even put me as the last one and NEOS and list fungus ex aequo on the bronze medal, because it's all me, whether I'm standing on it in front or in the back. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Just, comrades, I really want your concerns. We are going to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure today, but this must also be recognised: From the point of view of the Rules of Procedure, we would have much more time to make this request and to convene a committee. At the time, Mr Obmann Wöginger said this already in the first, unsuccessful attempt, in which you were too cowardly to go to the Constitutional Court, or are justifiably afraid, because even radio has said on television, well, so a hundred percent he does not know now, there is already a certain abdominal pain. – We would have liked you to go there so that you could finally prove that we had been wrong. But you didn't decide you were too cowardly to do that. We'll see that things are different. You're now trying to explain to the BAT. They want to identify against the entire BAT, the entire, under quotation marks, “secret service” of the interior resort. I'm already excited, I'm looking forward to the very long investigation work, only when I read on the subject of the investigation: "the occupation of senior functions and personnel selection (including appointment or appointment. ==References====External links==* Official website Tasks).’ The Federal Criminal Office is associated with the BAT, and this also serves police inspections throughout the area. We are likely to deal with the records of each staff member that has existed throughout Austria over the last ten years. We are also looking forward to seeing that the President of the National Council will also see that we are getting a construction to accommodate all the files. That is complete information, as you want, and that is also delivered on point and note. What may then come out will be one. Perhaps the following, because of the fact that research committees are media: Many things that are rightly asked where there is a legitimate need for information are in the field of absolute confidentiality. This committee will therefore have to take place in general, excluding the media. If you say that you want to investigate the intelligence and espionage, then this is something we are normally in the area of the highly confidential Stapo committee, where even if only a syllable comes out, the prosecutor and the judge immediately stand there. But it will also succeed – without the public. I just have to disappoint the media: There will probably not be much to write except discrepancies under punishment. Finally, I am looking forward to the report to the National Council, where these very many non-public matters must then be explained to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen in the House, all of you will have the pleasure, honor and also the obligation to provide complete information: It is sufficient for work to be done in the interests of the Republic of Austria and its citizens. Consider, too, that the funds devoured by such an investigation committee are used responsibly – for the benefit of the Republic of Austria, parliamentarism and a smooth, transparent administration also in the field of espionage.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56785	Mrs Dr. Krisper spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56806	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The processes around the BAT have massively irritated and insecured the population, and there is still the suspicion that the takeover of power was tried with the bridge rod. The suspicion is that in recent months, directly from Mr Kickl's cabinet, in particular by his Secretary-General Goldgruber, the most active activities have also been undertaken in connection with this house search, whose proportionality is still questionable, but in particular through a special unit under the direction of a FPÖ council. So here is the suspicion of a game of power that is uncertain to our European intelligence partners, who have already been unsure since the FPÖ held the Ministry of the Interior, a FPÖ who has close contacts with Putin and other forces, as they do not like to see secret service organisations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Also to Trump, we have close contacts everywhere!]] This already endangers security in our country. But the Causa BVT is only the tip of the iceberg, we see an affair BMI, an affair interior ministry. We want to look at the party political infiltration of the upper hierarchies. In order to show the black network, it was important for us to continue to decline during the investigation period, i.e. not as in the first draft from the SPÖ until 2013, but until 2008. It was also important to us that it was not about the BAT, but, as Mr Rosenkranz has already read, to see the “occupying management functions and personnel selection (including [...] employees of the respective Federal Ministers’ cabinets” in order to see us in the guidance chain above the BAT whether it was influenced. One can now say that a coloring of ministries in Austria is normal, but I do not think it is normal in the Ministry of the Interior. I don't think it's normal that in recent years, the competition tests did not sit on the levers, but the friends. This has also put the population's data at risk, in particular those who are not politically opportune. We have suspicions that the data could have gone to party friends, friends of the economy or the media. To ensure that in the future, not the friends are at work, but the competition tests for security in the country, so that we know that the data is in security, it takes a reconnaissance in a U committee to draw from these power games the consequences for security in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56849	Mrs Dr.in Alma Zadić has now been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e56867	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Yeah, I'm fine! We did it. We from the Pilz list, together with the opposition parties, have introduced a new request for the establishment of a BAT study committee – and this can be seen. Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP! You certainly did not like to reject the SPÖ's first request, because by this rejection you gave us the opportunity to bring us in here and to develop the desire together with the other opposition parties. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In legal and political precision work, we have developed a desire which goes beyond the old in crucial points. [[Abg. Wheelers: They made a mistake!]] This further development has led to the fact that we will not only examine the state of maladministration in the last five years, but will examine the last ten years. We also have the opportunity not only to examine the attempted takeover of power of the FPÖ in detail, but also, in particular, the ÖVP network. We will examine whether this EIA network has politically affected our constitutional protection over the last ten years at the expense of our security and for party policy purposes. This politically motivated influence by the Ministry of the Interior and its high-ranking cabinet staff must be carefully examined and examined in Parliament. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] The disability of information here in Parliament by ÖVP and FPÖ is now no longer possible. They can't keep up our parliamentary control any longer. [[Abg. Rosary: We do not want that at all, but we are legally dependent on the Constitutional Court!]] I therefore call on you to look back on your role as a parliamentarian and not just to be an extended arm of the government. Mr Rosenkranz, you are elected representatives of the people in Parliament, so it is your task to control this government and its predecessor governments. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ]] Intervening You are dealing with the abuses of the Constitutional Protection! We need a functioning constitutional protection. [[Abg. Rosary: Exactly!]] We will ensure that this constitutional protection is not a constitutional protection of the FPÖ, nor a constitutional protection of the ÖVP, but a constitutional protection of this Republic of Austria, the citizens of Austria. [[Abg. Gudenus: Peter Pilz is the highest Constitutional Protector!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Peter Pilz!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Thank you, Peter!]] That is our common goal. This will not prevent us from doing so, because the security here in the country is too important to sacrifice it in the black and blue party policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e57008	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. In accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure request 3/US to set up an investigative committee on ‘political influence on the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BAT Investigation Committee)’ to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[18:18:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e57038	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 191/A(E) to 217/A(E). [[18:18:49]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2018-04-17-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00019_d7e57059	I have a written request from 20 Members to read the proposed version of the Official Protocol on Agenda item 7 so that this part is deemed approved at the end of the sitting. I will therefore proceed in this way and read only the corresponding part of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 7: [...] The request of the Committee of the Rules of Procedure [...] for the establishment of an Committee of Inquiry shall be adopted unanimously.’; Are there any objections to the version or content of this part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. This part of the Official Protocol is therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 6.20 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
