ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2434	I can open the meeting and greet our President Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen in our midst. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[Federal President Van der Bellen rises from his place and thanks with a bowing.]] I should like to welcome all the Members of the National Council, the ladies and gentlemen in the gallery, the journalists and the ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the television. The official protocols of the 13th and 14ths. Meeting of 19. On 1 March 2018, he was appointed to the Parliamentary Board. For today's sitting, as prevented, Members of Parliament are reported. Androsch, Mag. Greiner, Mag. Dr. Hammerschmid and Mag. Hauser. [[10:02:47]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2483	With regard to the items obtained, I refer in accordance with § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2541	I announce that this meeting will be held live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m., and this meeting will be transferred in full length by ORF III, sending the part that goes beyond 7.40 p.m. Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2559	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the government documents relating to the Federal Financial Laws 2018 and 2019 together with investments at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. - That's accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2586	The debate on points 2 to 5, 8 and 9, 10 to 12, 15 to 17, 20 to 23 and 24 and 25 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - If that's not the case, we'll do that. [[10:04:11]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2610	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 172/A(E) tabled at the same time by Dr Strolz, colleagues on the establishment of an effective debt brake. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. We are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2636	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6.5 ‘Vienna hours’ was agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: for the ÖVP 120 minutes, for the SPÖ and FPÖ each 107 minutes, for the NEOS and the Pilz list each 36 minutes. I can come to the vote on the speaking time presented. I ask the ladies and gentlemen for a sign of approval. – This is unanimous; this gives the two-thirds majority, so it is approved. [[10:05:52]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government’s templates concerning the Federal Finance Laws for the years 2018 and 2019, together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2679	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Mr Federal Minister, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e2703	Dear Austrians! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr President. High house! We start into a new future, and it starts a good time. It's the 93. Day of the term of office of this Federal Government, and I may present to you today the double budget for the government team for the years 2018 and 2019. Presumptuous: We are also launching a new timetable in our country's budget policy. ==References====External links== October 2017 voted for change in our country, but even more so, people have also made it clear that they want to go new ways in this area and that it is also the task of politics to find these new ways in this area. The foundation for this double budget 2018 and 2019 has already been laid in the government talks and the government negotiations. As you all know, it has already succeeded in laying the foundation stone for us to present to you today, after a very short period of time, a very good result of these talks in the first government clause in early January. At this point I would also like to thank my colleagues in the government team who have held a very hard, intensive, disciplined discussion on the basis of the decision of the beginning of January of this year. Only in this way was it possible to present such an intensive but also very good result in this area during this short period of time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I'll take it in advance: The result, ladies and gentlemen, can be seen! Since 1954, there has not been a year in Austria in which the state has not spent more than it has taken. That is almost 65 years, in which year after year more spent than was taken. These are 65 years in which debts were accumulated, and these are 65 years in which we have lived at the expense of our own future, the future of our children, but also our grandchildren. To make it even clearer: Out of the circle of all Members here in the House, of 183 Members – I have allowed myself to research – exactly eight were born at that time; I suppose, born, may not be able to realize that 1954 was the last time the state was able to achieve a surplus in this area. All of us know nothing but to make debts, and in this area we have made ourselves clear: That must be done! We are now attacking the end of debt policy, and we are experiencing a turning point here in Austria's budget policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that there have also been years when it has been difficult in Austria to deal with crises in which disasters in the international field have caused us to provide assistance that we too have been affected; it has been right to take appropriate care of these years too, also through a reception approach and an increase in debt, to give a compensation, and to invest it accordingly. But there have also been many, many years, I say it immediately before, in which high-economy – even higher than we can now experience them positively – has passed, and even in these years debt has been incurred, debt has been built up, and this has been over 65 years. This has been done in this form by Austria and the Austrians, and therefore, in view of this unbearable state, ladies and gentlemen, we assume this responsibility in particular for our next generations. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] We have to ensure that we end this debt policy in Austria, better now than tomorrow, and that we do. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Allow me to present to you, on the basis of six principles, the form in which we will take care of it. The first principle of this basis is recognizable: We're cutting off debt. We have taken up government in order to change, and this government has provided it from the very beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, a new, cross-border finance minister in the very good and beautiful situation to be able to present to you today what we will succeed in 2019. For 65 years we have had to wait, now we can present you with a budget that has an administrative surplus; that is, the first time we will take more money than spend – so we will ensure the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We will generate a budget surplus of EUR 541 million in 2019, which is the basis, but not only for a one-time budget and a unique surplus, but in a row – we will also present the BFRG in the form – will generate this surplus in the positive form in the coming years, on the basis that we will also save reasonably in the system and give Austrians opportunities for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me also present this a little bit to clarify the dimension: Over these 65 years, debt has been built up in a dimension of around 290 billion euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I can imagine that many of you, even at home in front of the screens, can probably find the relationship difficult because it is such a big dimension, but let me fix it to an example: If we look at it in such a way that we impose a burden on our children, our young people for the future, that we give them debt, then this debt mountain of 290 billion euros for each individual child and for every individual youth in Austria means a debt backpack of around 33 000 euros. This is the burden of the past that we have imposed on our children and young people. We've got to get rid of that. Every newborn, every child born in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, comes to the world with this debt burden. – I believe that we can, and must not be responsible, and from this point of view it is a task for us to end this debt policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We have also explained how the path of the next few years will be. Based on a debt ratio close to the 84 percent of our gross domestic product, we will, of course, also build on a positive economy, which is the basis, but also with increased savings and reasonable budgets and economies with expertise, to reduce this debt ratio to 74.5 percent in 2018. In 2019 we will take another step at 70.9 percent and we will move towards 60 percent by 2022. – This is unique, including with regard to the accessibility of the Maastricht criteria. In doing so, we consistently reduce our debts and build on the future of our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I've already announced it: That is the basis, we take responsibility for the future of our children and grandchildren and create this generation-righteousness, which is why we have introduced a clear change in course here. I come to the second principle: We're promoting performance. This is a confession, which is a principle that is necessary. As Minister of Finance, I am aware: It is up to me to ensure in this country that the money we take in the form of contributions, taxes and taxes in order to be able to operate the state system in any form whatsoever is handled with care that there is also a safe and honest way of dealing with this money. As a cross-border beginner, who also observed politics as an interested citizen a few months ago and, I confess, occasionally commented, it is perhaps even more conscious to me than people who have been working in politics in the system of the state itself for a long time; it is clearly recognizable: This system can only exist if it succeeds in ensuring the basis for those persons, those people in Austria, who provide contributions and contributions accordingly. What do I mean by that? – The country can only work if the performance of the Austrians helps to ensure that it works well for our children to have a good education, that we have secure pensions for the older generation, that we have a medical care for the sick, that we have the appropriate care for the needy; and for the poor of the country – in order to make this clear immediately at the outset – it also needs solidarity and security of living from the social state. These are the basics for which we will also have the responsibility in Austria in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Furthermore, if we all have a well-functioning infrastructure together in Austria, if we can move freely, well and safely in this country, and if there are enough offers in culture and sports – these are also services that we can finance from what taxpayers supply. That is the thanks we owe our taxpayers. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me on the subject: We promote performance!, perhaps also give the term performance itself into an analysis. I think it is also misunderstanding, a one-sided understanding of the concept of performance, which may have led to this debt mountain being able to build up for decades at all. If one understands performance as something that one picks up, if one understands by virtue of performance something that one can afford because it is supposed to be due to one, if the consideration of performance goes only in that direction, then it cannot work, then it is a basis that undermines the state's solidarity principle and makes the financing of a state in this form impossible for a long time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I say it very openly and directly: Our understanding of performance is primarily based on the performance that is also provided, on the performance that leads by use to a basis for value creation, which at all leads to a basis for ensuring that, in the form of taxes and taxes, our state system can also be safeguarded in a sustainable and long-term manner. Only in this way can we ensure long-term and sustainable public services in this area. Dear Austrians! I would therefore like to thank you for your hard work and for your commitment in all areas, whether as a worker or an employee, as an entrepreneur, as a farmer, as a freelance or other contributor. A great deal of thanks goes to the many people who, as family members, often take care of child care and child rearing as well as of those in need of care in the private environment, who often accept these concerns in addition to everyday work – a performance that is often underestimated and not so perceived at all. A very special thanks goes to the hundreds of thousands who, on a voluntary, voluntary basis, work as officials in a wide range of fields, who make a very, very important contribution in the field of fire brigades, rescues or as officials of the thousands of other associations in Austria. Without them, this country wouldn't work that way. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In the next few years, we will endeavour to develop the topic of performance into a positive, meaningful basis in this understanding. Performance is something that is worth it, and not something you have to generate for. This is the basis of our new policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Let me say it even more clearly: Only with this understanding of performance that is provided will we be able to finance and secure long-term benefits, which will also be the basis of our state. It is only in this way that we have a basis for solidarity for those people who are also entitled to it because they are unable to provide this active service. This also corresponds to our understanding, and we will take care of it. If the principle of performance begins to work positively, we will have even more opportunities in the future to provide for those concerned, for example for the poor in this country, and we will also do this solidarity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In conclusion, this principle of benefit: As Minister of Finance, I am responsible for ensuring that there are incentives for positive incentives, a positive motivation for performance. This also includes ensuring that there is a corresponding positive income difference for those people who make their contribution in this form, including for the system. It must not – for example through abuse of solidarity – be added that the income situation for those who work and are exposed to the efforts of a working day is no better than what can be read at the solidarity level in a different way. That's the foundation. We need stimulation for positive performance in this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because we are committed to this topic of performance, the principle is: We relieve the citizens. That's the stimulation I've been talking about. We stand by the fact that those who, through their use of our system, finance our state, also have the right to a reasonable form of taxation and taxation in this area. Therefore, our clear objective is to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent by 2022, and we will achieve this by the steps we have taken. That's what we'll achieve! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And because our tax policy is called discharge, we have already started to take first action. We have first and foremost provided a clear relief for tax-paying families with children in Austria. We thus reach 950 000 families with about 1.6 million children. This is an order of magnitude, a dimension, given that we know that we have a positive influence across the country, that we are giving back strength to the whole country. For many families in Austria, this reduces the tax burden to the full, or it relieves a maximum of 1,500 euros per child per year, and the whole of it from 1. January 2019. This is the largest family promotion package ever available in Austria. That's our foundation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] To make the difference clear: This 1.5 billion euro relief measure for families in Austria is also refinanced and covered in the budget. We have worked out this through savings in the system itself in order to be able to give this discharge. In addition to this, we have also provided – I have referred to this as a preliminary point –: We also give additional support to those who have low incomes, single-parent mothers and fathers alone, by increasing the amount of amortization by 250 euros a year, and thus we also give them our solidarity support. This too is a clear signal in connection with what I have already said in the opening. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] In addition, it was our first measure – with effect from 1. July this year – by reducing the unemployment insurance contribution to ensure that, especially for small incomes, an average relief of over 300 euros per year is also effected. This too is an important basis. In this way we reach 950 000 employees in Austria with a clear discharge, and for this we provide 140 million euros, which we have already shown in the budget accordingly. This too is an important relief for small incomes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We also relieve the economy. We have taken a first step by deciding, in the area of tourism, which is the backbone of the Austrian economy, which secures a job for many thousands – and we know that tourism in particular has a lot of potential, including job-seekers and job-seekers – to reduce the turnover tax for nights from 13 to 10 percent. This too is a discharge that totals 120 million euros. In addition, we abolished the rental contract fees – as did 60 million euros. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] In addition, we have halved the flight charge – another 60 million euros in discharge. To sum up, this government has created a discharge of almost 1.9 billion euros for the Austrians with its first measures. This is our discharge policy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The decisive thing is: We will not stick to these short-term measures, but we will continue to work. We will secure the objective of a tax rate of 40 percent by 2022 permanently through further measures. This is our discharge policy for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We don't do this for our own purpose. It is the scope that we can create, in a dynamic way, to be able to shape for the future. We also need further growth impulses so that we can stabilise our country in a long-term and sustainable way even in difficult phases. I come to the fourth principle of my introduction: We're saving in the system. [[Call the NEOS: General Secretary, for example!]] We save ourselves. We are saving people so that they can trust that this is useful and that the money is well used so that we can meet our responsibilities as well. We were able to understand most of the so-called tax reliefs in the past. It has been announced for years and decades, and all Austrians have always been promised a tax reform and tax relief. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... They were never there!]] [[Further call at the SPÖ:... ÖVP predecessors!]] But what happened? – The Austrians were told that there was a tax relief, and that, I say, taxes were taxed, and that people were put in the right pocket, which they were taken out of the left pocket by means of counter-financing, new tax burdens and tax increases. - That's not what we stand for. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We are not prepared to relieve taxpayers at the expense of taxpayers. If it is to be an honest discharge, it must be achieved through savings in the system, then refinancing must come from other areas. Clear declaration from the context: We'll get rid of it. This means that we will not raise taxes and we will not introduce new taxes. This is our programme for the next few years. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] This means that we secure the free space we create through savings in the system for discharge, but also for investments in our future. [[Abg. Wittmann: The worst was the Schelling!]] This is about education and research, which is about digitization, and this is also about the security of our country. [[Abg. Wittmann:... Molterer... not bad, and Fekter..., but the worst was the Schelling!]] We therefore save ourselves: We save by saving on the administrative costs by saving on the federal funds by making corresponding cost corrections to the distributed units of the federal government and overall in the rental costs in this area. And yes, we were also prepared to take back decisions that were taken last year, but which are now more than superfluous due to economic development, which in reality constitute a more or less necessary effort decision. We also create sustainable foundations in this area. Starting with 2018, the total cost of savings is 2.5 billion euros, with which we can finance what we create and invest. This is an honest and good budget policy for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] For the next few years, we have also set a clear framework: We are limited to re-occupied in public service retirement. We have set clear targets for all ministries, and we will continue to pursue this objective consistently in the next few years. However, it will be necessary to take care there and take a description of tasks and functions as a basis because we will also ensure that this country is not saved to death, but works through positive services for all citizens. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition, there are very important and essential foundations in the area of structural reforms, but also in the area of bureaucracy. The Austrians, all people long for simplification in the area of bureaucracy, in the area of administrative burden in relation to the state. This is an important basis on which we will build. We will consistently drive these savings through administrative simplification, process optimization and also through automation – by including digitization as a positive effect. In this way, we not only save the Austrians money, but also nerves that they have to lose every day, once they have lost themselves in the jungle of bureaucracy. We will tackle this and take appropriate measures. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I should also like to express clearly the views of the opposition that have taken place in recent weeks and months: You say we save on the poorest, we save in connection with the social state. - That's not right. They use terms that cause fear that cause fear in people. – That is not necessary. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] On the contrary: We spend 49.6 percent of the social security funds foreseen in the 2018 budget, and we increase this to 50.7 percent in 2019. That is to say, there is also an increase in the field of prevention, support, solidarity in our state. That is the truth behind our programme, and from this point of view, all Austrians also have the certainty that we are not saving in this area, but, on the contrary, are willing to spend more. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But what I understand, also from the experience of the private sector in recent years: Any change, including any form of saving, of course also brings uncertainty, even causes fears from this system. To that end, I say: However, it will also be necessary to take steps in the course of which we will make restrictions in the case of old bristles, in the case of appropriate habits. We will cut off pots that may have led to pleasant side effects for years and decades. This is necessary, and in the sense of these changes I address the appeal to all in this hall: Together we have the responsibility to bear responsibility for Austria, and that means that we must also be prepared to intervene accordingly in things that are inefficient in things that are not necessary. Only then do we have the chance of securing social peace and the social state for Austria in the long term. This is our common foundation. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I come to my fifth principle: We use the good economy. Yes, I do not deny it, it is true – and this is also the merit of those who have set the right impulses in the past – that we have on a global level a major economic weather situation which is very positive. We also have a very, very positive basis in Europe, throughout the EU, as far as economic growth is concerned, and this is particularly pleasing, Austria is still above that. That is, we have a good, favourable starting point – I mentioned this in the introduction. That is why we cannot understand this as a gift from heaven, nor is it a virtual forecast of economic researchers, but the basis for this is the performance that is provided in Austria in the field of the economy, in the field of working people, who in this context also provide a good basis for taxes and taxes. Let us – and this is exactly the point – take advantage of this positive basis to put in place the measures needed now if what is currently very positive is perhaps to be weakened once! Policy is the responsibility of taking the right steps not only for now but also for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I may, even if it is something technical, provide you with the current values for this: In 2018, the basis for the budget is also a rise of 3.2 percent of the gross domestic product. In 2019 we expect flattened growth of 2.2 percent. Private consumption in Austria increases by 1.8 percent in 2018, by 1.6 percent in 2019. Public consumption remains stable at a good level at 1.1 percent in 2018 and 1.2 percent in 2019. As never before, the Austrian export economy flourishes: in 2018 with a growth rate of 5.5 percent and in 2019 still with 4.5 percent growth. In 2018, we also have a boom in investment, as there is an increase of 3.5 percent, and in 2019 there is still a 2.5 percent increase. That is, we recognize a high level, but we cannot assume – and even the economic researchers do not – that this level continues. On this positive basis, however, we can build our decisive policy for the next few years, and we will do so consistently. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In addition to the economic data and the so-called hard facts: It is a very, very important moment that we also experience a start with this new government in Austria. There is a very up-to-date study which relates to entrepreneurs in Austria and questions them about their assessments, their consent and their satisfaction in terms of location policy and perspectives. We have seen an incredible increase of 15 to 40 percent in recent months as regards the positive assessment of satisfaction. At the same time, the negative estimate has fallen from 35 to 12 percent. This is a confirmation, but also an order to this government to consistently implement this policy, which we have enshrined in the government programme, to confirm to people this mood by complying with what we have promised in the government programme. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In order to address it also towards the economy: We have additional positive news, which has succeeded us for the 2018/2019 budget. At this point, I must mention not only the good economy that we have developed, which the diligent Austrians have worked out, but also the positive news that it has succeeded in making a corresponding positive contribution to the resolution of the banking crisis through professional management, also in conjunction with the economy. I thank my predecessor Hans Jörg Schelling personally and, as I believe, in the name of all Austrians: He has managed through his professional management that we can remove the additional burden on taxpayers in a timely and timely manner. We are free of additional costs. That's a thanks we can give Hans Jörg Schelling. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jarolim: This is a contradiction in your speech!]] In order to carry out this even further: The Immigone will be the first unit to go into liquidation at the end of the year, we will have handled most of the portfolio at the Heta in 2019, and KA Finance will cover the old loads as well and we can handle it faster than planned. Let me come to my sixth principle: We are committed to Europe. This is a clear commitment by this government to Europe. That is the basis: that we recognize, especially now that there are gaps at global level, especially now that a global trade war is under discussion, that we now recognize that, as a small country, Austria, we are not able to face these challenges alone. It is therefore an important basis for us here as part of the European Union, also in our responsibilities from 1. In July in the Presidency, send a clear signal to Europe: We Austrians stand for Europe, and we will ensure that we can also keep our word and put our ideas into practice in Europe. For this purpose, the Presidency is the best condition for us. We will use these for our future, also in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It won't be a simple task. We all know that the important issue of Brexit falls precisely at the time when we will be called on in the Presidency to support a reasonable solution at European level. We will be required to ensure that this departure from Britain as a member of the European Union is not carried out at the expense and on the back of taxpayers in Austria. We will also ensure that, in the preparation of the European Union's strategic medium-term planning for the next years, we will ensure that, as a net payer, we build pressure with the other net payers of Europe, that, as we do in Austria, we save on the system and, as we do in Austria, we bear the responsibility to manage the money of taxpayers, which is the basis that we will also call for in the reform of the European Union. This too will help us in our Presidency to find a good basis for Europe and for Austria, including recognition and acceptance at European level. We will use this to make progress in this area accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am now saving you an excursion in special topics of finance at European level, just a small extract: There is a reform paper on how monetary union is to be deepened. This paper contains a number of points that we are critical of, namely, bringing new functions into the EU, such as in the form of an EU finance minister. Here we are critical. We are also critical – and this is the particularly important basis – if there are concepts for debt at European level to become a debt union, in which we Austrians and Austrians are to share responsibility for debt that is to be incurred abroad, in the international area, wherever the EU is concerned. On the other hand, I am acting. May I criticize who wants to: I will stand by the fact that Austria is being spared in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] But what we will do very well is to support the positive aspects contained in this reform proposal paper on financial issues and the deepening of monetary union when it comes to developing the ESM also towards a European Monetary Fund and strengthening the security network towards the resolution of banks, where we will be supporting it, because it is about providing the overall aspect of Europe as a framework. The example of Greece, which we are still actively supporting, shows that it is also a matter of requiring consistent reform programmes in such countries, so that repayments are guaranteed accordingly. That is what I am saying, the government behind it, but not the automatic distribution of debt in Europe. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I now allow myself to come to the second part of my budget speech. I apologize to you, but also to the Austrians, that I now have to become a little more technical, because it is also about giving you detailed information on the most important topics in the budget chapters, on the priorities set out in the programme for this budget 2018/2019. In other words, these are figures, data and facts where you can see what content and topics we focus on, where we see the opportunity to take things back in line with development, but where we are investing positively in a common future. The first thing in this context is: We don't have a very positive message for 2018 – this hurts – because we will have a negative balance of 2.16 billion euros in 2018 with deposits of 76.38 billion euros and payouts of 78.54 billion euros. That hurts, but it's also explainable. We have a situation – I have already mentioned it in an introductory way – in which we also carry a certain burden of inheritance. As a neo-political, as a member of the government, as a cross-border beginner, allow me a small critical remark in the sense of the House. In recent years and also in the past year, there has been a clear trend over planning. Now, when the calls are coming, the economy is automatically driving the 2018/19 budget, I say, we also had a growth of over 3 percent in 2017. But what happened? – Old habits have simply been decided upon, as previously announced, which were partly not in line with the economic situation, and have not ensured that there is a corresponding funding in the budget. You have three days before the election – this happened in this house – that is, on the 12th. In October, decisions taken that will cost a total of 626 million euros in the future. [[Abg. Wittmann: Mr Schelling...!]] All this together contributes to the fact that – I call it so – these cost-es-es-es-woll-wahl sugars still burden our budget accordingly for 2018. The positive news is – I mentioned it in the introduction –: In 2019, with deposits of 79.69 billion euros and payouts of 79.15 billion euros, we will have a positive balance of 0.54 billion euros for the first time for 65 years. Again: This is the turning point in the budget policy for Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the general government Maastricht criteria, which are also concerned with complying with the Stability Pact at the euro level, we must say: Because of the situation, we will still have a minimum of 0.4 percent in 2018, but in 2019, since Austria joined the financial regime, we will create a zero deficit, a black zero according to Maastricht criteria. This is an additional record approach that we can present in this budget. Congratulations to all Austrians! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The structural deficit at the third level of technical consideration will still account for 0.5 percent of the gross domestic product in 2018 and 2019. With this double budget, we have also made clear choices, namely, that there are accents in the individual budget chapters to which I am now going to come. The guidelines are clear: We consistently review existing issues for meaningfulness and efficiency. We consistently take the necessary steps towards savings if it is possible and meaningful. And we are investing meaningfully in the future so that we can work together to shape the future for Austria and not just reduce debt. That's our topic. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With regard to families: We have already put in place a massive relief measure for families with the family bonus Plus. But let me say it even more clearly: The basis for transfers and benefits in kind has continued to be positive and growing in this area with EUR 7.3 billion in 2018. With the effect of indexing family aid for 2019, we have a small positive effect, we will continue to expand this area and also increase funds for support and support for families by 2022. This makes this government very clearly the focus on the families in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] If we invest in the future, education is an important factor. We budget 800 million euros more offensively in education in Austria. In 2018 we will increase to EUR 8.82 billion, 2019 to EUR 8.84 billion. It will be EUR 9.52 billion by 2022. This is a 10-percent increase compared to the baseline. At the same time, we can also close the gap in funding over years in education. That's consistent policy. This is a fair and transparent basis for budgetary policy in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We continue to invest 182 million euros in the expansion of day care. With EUR 17 million, we enable the number of lessons in vocational schools to be increased, and to do something about unemployment – an important factor. In addition, we must also do something about the unemployment of older people. We need more money, and we invest 36 million euros more in adult education. At this point, I would like to mention – I have also taken this from discussions in this House – I believe, also in this area – and I am now looking at Matthias Strolz consciously, because he has also provided me with an indication about this – we need to make sure that we look at it in time when it comes to adult education. It is probably too late for measures when over 50-year-old and older people break down unemployment. We must bring them a lifetime accompanying them to keep up with the technical developments. We will also focus on this, and we will take care of it. [[We welcome ÖVP and FPÖ, as well as Mr Strolz and Mr Scherak.]] Due to the entire educational situation in Austria, the profession of the teacher and teacher is not always easier, there are daily stratas, and it is not always easy to ensure that our children and young people can be trained accordingly; since, I have to say, we need just as much motivation. We also rely on quality – on quality in the training for our educators by including the upgrading of teaching staff into the new service law and by making a good additional investment in the future of our children in the country with 400 million euros in the coming years. With regard to science and research: It also applies that we can take the quality from schools for a positive, good quality of our universities. At the moment, we have been quite sluggished in international colleges, but we have also taken precautions there. We will, especially in the field of science and research, where investment in the future is concerned with investment in the site, in the connection of business and research, provide that positive initiatives are being taken. We also have a focus here, even there we are investing. In research, there will be payments from 2017 to 2022, which will grow by 13.2 percent. 4.38 billion euros are the starting point in 2017, which will rise to just under 5 billion euros in the coming years. In detail, this means increasing the university budget by EUR 1.6 billion, which we provide in the context of university funding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] This includes an increase in study grants by EUR 300 million and an expansion of technical universities by EUR 41 million. This is also an important factor in order to further develop quality in this field here in Austria. We increase the research premium to 14 percent, which is 500 million euros. Strengthening the promotion of top-level research is a further 230 million euros. These are the priorities of the budget: Family, education and science. We are thus investing clearly in the future of our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With regard to security, we take a lot of money into our hands – a lot of money, but through savings in the system – in order to strengthen the sense of security in Austria. All people in Austria have a right to safety and a right to feel safe. The state, we have the duty to ensure that people in Austria can feel safe. We invest 700 million euros in the next few years in the increase and training of the police, 250 million euros in the years 2018 and 2019 in anti-terrorism measures. Overall, we will increase internal security expenditure to 2.9 billion euros in the next few years. This is also an investment in the present, we all have the right to feel secure in Austria, in our home country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] On the subject of asylum and integration, we have the opportunity, on the basis of measures put forward, namely in the area of border security and also internationally – we see that there is this possibility – to set up appropriate budget measures properly and effectively in the development. We planned 420 million euros in this area in the 2018 budget. We expect that in 2019, due to the overall development, the amount of EUR 50 million can be saved and we will be able to reduce the necessary amount to around EUR 185 million by 2022. This planning does not mean, however, that we are reducing financial resources in the migration and asylum sectors of people who are already in Austria. No, it means that we are taking precautions that we will come on a state-of-the-art basis, where we can put these policies in place, efficiently and properly, and accompany them. We have an international volatile situation where we are not 100% sure whether in the next few years there or there there may be crises or flows of refugees. We have provided at the safety level, and we underline and support what we have foreseen at the budget level. We can also save money to be able to invest meaningfully for our future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] As a result of the achievements that the Austrians are putting towards economic growth – all the current results show that unemployment is fortunately declining, demand for skilled workers, for workers and employees is increasing – we also have the opportunity to make a corrective move in the field of work. It is not necessary to maintain budget pots, promoters if there is no longer any need for them. We can use this money sensibly in other areas. In this context, let me say something about labour market policies: As a government, it is also important for older workers to have the right, sustainable, long-term jobs that give them security, and not to spend funds on short-term tax-funded sham jobs in the area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We will estimate EUR 8.32 billion for this area in 2018, which is a reduction of EUR 19 million. In 2019, this amount will be reduced by another 167 million euros, but this is anything but a ballast that will be subordinated to us in this area. We continue to invest more than 10 percent of the annual budget in this area and make a reasonable adjustment to the reality that gives us the basis for this. We also have 50th generation plus fewer numbers of unemployed. I mentioned earlier that we have changed the priority by going more towards qualification now. However, we also take appropriate measures in the area of management so that we can also use savings there. However, we also invest in the fulfilment of the training guarantee and the training law. Additional resources flow into this area. 79,1 million euros flow for young people by increasing the qualification programmes and by setting up appropriate measures for the future in this area. It is necessary to note here that, in the field of minimum security, we see the need, as announced, to approach a new regulation this year. It is clear that this minimum guarantee must not be an invitation for anyone to adopt the contribution, the provision of services to the general public. It may not be that the minimum guarantee in this area is used as a permanent solution. We also need, with regard to fairness and solidarity, a bridge aid for all Austrians, which we will define and organize reasonably, and which will also ensure that there will be no longer any basis for the people concerned and for the poor and those who need this money, but for those who try to take advantage of it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In the field of infrastructure and economy, there is a paradigm change by focusing on the future. We want to see digitalization as an opportunity. We will present programmes both in the economy and in the field of infrastructure, which will create framework conditions through which the economy, as well as all Austrians, have a working, good basis not only on the streets, but also on the so-called data highways. We are going to put in place appropriate measures, and we want to finally come into effect in the area of the broadband offensive. We will ensure that this is also used as an investment framework, and we will also, through e-government solutions and debureaucratisation, ensure that we not only save money, but also nerves for Austrians and, above all, for entrepreneurs in this area. For this we act: less bureaucracy, faster, more modern – that is our future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would like to thank my seat neighbor on the government bank, Norbert Hofer, who, with a feeling of fingertips in the sensitive area of the ÖBB, has made sure that in the next few years we will find a good balance in the critical examination of projects coming from the past, in order to also have room for investment. We know that from 2023 on, European competition will also present an additional challenge for the ÖBB. For this reason, we can hold, the right investment is also being made here. To complete it technically: In any event, the grant for the ÖBB in 2018 amounts to 5.2 billion euros and will increase to 5.4 billion euros in 2019. However, we trust that the measures that are being put in place will also ensure the right basis for our development in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] One of the biggest challenges for our country will certainly be the area of pensions, and we will need to develop new ideas not only in the short term, but in any case in the medium and, above all, in the long term. I now call on all the Members of the House to take this issue seriously, regardless of the party membership of the House. It is not enough for the Austrians to predict that the pensions are permanently secured. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] In Austria, we currently have the situation that every fourth euro of the 2018 budget will be spent on pensions for officials' pensions of 9.2 billion euros, and this amount will increase by 12.6 percent to 10.4 billion euros by 2022. A further 9.6 billion euros go as a grant to pension insurance – the trend is rising sharply. Each of us – including everyone at home – knows why. It is quite a positive situation: The famous baby boomers, the sixty-year courses – I can count on myself – will retire in the next few years. There will be a significant increase in the number of people in this area. But in the generation of those who pay our pensions, we have less and less who make a contribution. We will also take necessary steps in this area. We will ensure – and this is also formulated in the government programme – that we achieve, in the effective, factual retirement age – of 60 years of age, that we are equal to the statutory retirement age. This is the basis on which we also put forward initial measures in this area. I would also like to make it clear, with regard to further reform, that there is a need here for a comprehensive solution, which we all support for the Austrians. It cannot be a government alone that makes such a decision, it must be a general policy decision. The invitation to the opposition shall apply: Let's go, let's go! It is a question of respect for the people of Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, hello!]] Another major challenge is the care sector. In the years 2018 and 2019, we increase the funding in this area by 322.1 million euros. This is a basis for ensuring a modern and decent care system in Austria. But there is also a need for joint efforts in this area. I'll make a little sidestep: On the question of the financing of the care regime, we are currently also in a good discussion with the countries and communities, we will have reached a solution by the middle of the year, but we must move beyond that. The issue is that the care theme can not only be considered from the point of view of home care. In Austria, we must ensure that, as I announced earlier, those people who care for their families in families are also not disadvantaged from the financial base in this area. We need a comprehensively balanced solution to the topic of care in Austria. This too is the requirement that we will be a politician. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The health sector is not so large in the Federal budget. We know that the majority of these costs are for the countries and also for social security institutions. However, we have also provided for quality with expenditure of around 1.1 billion euros for 2018/2019. We invest in the higher quality of results in patient care, by also developing the Elga systems, but also the Teweb telephone and web-based consulting system accordingly, so that the Austrians have a good foundation there. Let me come to the next issue, agriculture and the environment. It is precisely this area that is the basis for Austria to continue to be an interesting and positive country for tourism. We will also ensure that we make investments. We have set the expenditure limit for 2018 and 2019 at EUR 2.2 billion each. When it comes to climate protection and the environment, it is important that people benefit. It is equally important, however, that in the field of agriculture and the economy, we push for proper investment towards environmentally sound production processes. That's what we value. I would also like to thank the farmers in Austria at this point because, with their use, they provide a good basis not only in the direction of landscape care, but above all in the direction of trade, towards export. We can be proud that our agriculture with its products is also an export hit not only in Europe but worldwide, and we will continue to support it. Thanks to the farmers for the Austrian brand! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, also art and culture are a site advantage. There we can build on the past, on our heritage, there we can be proud. We will continue with around 457 million euros in the budget to ensure that this sector can continue to develop positively. We will also use our EU Presidency to bring Austria to an even better light in this area, thus ensuring the culture of Austria at European level. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] In the field of public service and sport, 160 million euros are available each in 2018 and 2019. It will also be necessary, especially in the area of sport, in which I have been able to gain some experience in recent years, to ensure that we can start with children, even during the long period of youth and in adults a permanent positive, including health promotion. I mentioned the thousands of clubs involved in sports. We will also use additional resources for this in the future. As far as women and young people are concerned, I have mentioned a lot about family relief. In this area, we want to use additional resources by also creating, for example, 100 additional places of care for women who have become victims of violence. In the youth sector, we will continue to support youth organisations with EUR 5.5 million accordingly. I think it is also important to understand the dimension: There are 37 youth organisations across Austria with 1.56 million members. This work must be supported. Thanks also to all those who are involved in this area for youth – thank you very much! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] With regard to the area of justice, I would like to point out that it was gladly extended to include reform in the definition of the new government: justice and reform. I believe that we can be grateful for the fact that Josef Moser, with his experience that he has built up in the Court of Auditors for years and decades, has agreed to accept this function. On the one hand, we have the opportunity not only to secure a functioning independent justice system in Austria as the basis of our state, but also to implement genuine reforms in its effect. It won't go from today to tomorrow. It also needs the basis for a good, detailed analysis, clear objectives and measures, consistent follow-up and also concrete control of implementation. However, if we remain consistent, we can build on the fact that, together with this department and all the others in the government, it will succeed in taking the right steps towards reforms for Austria and thus regaining potential for savings in the system and securing investment for our future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Before I conclude, I should also like to thank all my colleagues in the field of ministries, but also in many other areas of the state. It has succeeded in developing a double budget in 93 days for the years 2018 and 2019. You all know the famous budget brick, you know what effort is needed in detail. It is, I believe, a great deal of thanks from all of us to all those who have contributed and contributed to this. Thank you for the great work! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, let me make a few points: I think it is clear that in just under a hundred days, the world cannot be changed. It is clear, however, that with our actions and also with what is shown in the budgets for 2018 and 2019 and also in the planning for the next five years, we assume our responsibility. We accept the challenge, and we stand to see that we will take the right measures in a consistent implementation of our government programme for this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I consciously mention once again the warnings I and this government team have given under the motto: Don't save with the poorest, have heard. We have here taken the greatest precautions we can take; even Cardinal Schönborn has formulated it very aptly: It is a question of securing social peace and the social state for Austria in a sustainable and long-term way through debt reduction. – We are committed to this, and we will work hard for it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Scherak: Please go!]] We will do this consistently! We will do so by continuing to question expenditure by not simply adopting priorities, but by evaluating measures for efficiency and also effectiveness by using savings potential, not building up new debts by developing budget surpluses and thereby reducing our high debt. This is the basis for sustainable social peace and social benefits for the poorest in Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I mentioned earlier that efforts are needed to achieve this objective. I allow myself to quote my favorite philosopher Seneca at this point: “Not because it’s hard, we don’t dare, but because we don’t dare it, it’s hard.” – My invitation to everyone is: Let's take the start of a new future together, it's about a lot! It is a matter of giving all of us the pleasure of working properly for and with Austria, of giving all of us a positive motivation for performance, but at the same time ensuring support for those who need this solidarity aid. Ladies and gentlemen! We must insist that this unique home for our children and for our grandchildren is not a burden due to debt, but a springboard to a good future. It's about this wonderful country, it's about Austria, it's about working together for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3287	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his comprehensive remarks. [[11:21:36]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (11 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Payment Services Act 2018, which amends the Alternative Finance Act, the Banking Act, the E-Money Act 2010, the Remote Financial Services Act, the Financial Market Money laundering Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Court Fees Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Capital Flow Act, the National Bank Act 1984, the Penal Code 2010, the Corporate Code, the Consumer Payment Account Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016 and the Insurance Contract Act (60 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (26 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016, the Insurance Contract Act and the Income Tax Act 1988 (Insurance Sales Act 2018 – VertrÄG 2018) (61 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (24D.B._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the Federal Law on the effectiveness of Regulation (EU) No. 1286/2014 on basic information sheets for packaged investment products for small investors and insurance investment products (PRIIP) and amending the Financial Market Supervisory Act (62 d.b.) 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (6D.B._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Japan to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and to prevent the reduction and circumvention of taxes (63 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3344	We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Krainer is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3372	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, before I come to the Insurance Sales Act, I would like to say a few words on the budget and on the budget. I've been in this house for a long time, and I've had a Déjà-vu experience, because this budget speech reminded me of budget speeches that I heard here in the zero years. At that time there were also fluffy sayings and lots of superlatives to listen to debt, to performance, to taxes, to savings, namely from a predecessor of yours, from Karl-Heinz Grasser – your sayings may not have been so fleeting and so youthful, but very, very similar – and that, what I remember especially and what I now see here, is that these advertising slogans unfortunately have very little to do with reality.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3393	I'm asking for peace, including at the gallery.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3414	So you have very, very little to do with reality and the lives of people. That is to say, the sayings you give of yourself do not come to people, and the truth is often the exact opposite. [[Abg. Haubner: Krainer, just jealous! Painful!]] Everyone here in this House knows that, for example, client policy, as we have experienced in the zeros, is celebrating happy originals even now. In the last plenary session, a 40 million euro gift was made to agriculture, this time, today, in the near future, it is a 120 million euro gift for hotelers. [[Abg. Little: The small-structured agriculture is not yours, is it?]] That is, you continue your client policy as in the zeros – strong lobby is called big election gifts or big gifts. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you say you want to save in the system and not at people, then I have to say, we see exactly the opposite: You spend more money on the system, you mainly spend a lot of money on the polish system. Never in the history of the Second Republic has so much money been spent for political offices, for cabinets, for secretaries, for political commissioners, as is the case today under this new government. That means that you spend much more money on the system, especially on the political system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] On the other hand, however, save You save exactly on people, you save on future opportunities, for example, you save on the unemployed – you save on the unemployed by taking the opportunities to qualify for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] You just need to look at the budgets! All clubs already got the so-called budget tile last night. We have worked through this at night and will discuss it in detail tomorrow, but what we can say now is: They save people only from people, especially those who are not particularly good. An area in which you also save – and that is particularly objectionable from my point of view, because it will be particularly expensive and will cause problems in particular – is integration. We have decided here and said that for everyone who is recognized as an asylum seekers, we say: Yes, you're really persecuted, you can stay here! , three, four things are very important, namely first that he learns German, second that he learns how Austria works and how Austria ticks, and third that he takes foot as fast as possible on the labour market. [[Abg. Little: Read it properly once!]] But what do you do, where do you save? – You are halving the funds in this area. This will result in these people being able to only half as good as German as they could otherwise know that they only know half as well as Austria works, and that they are only half as good at the labour market. That's what you're causing, and that doesn't make Austria better, no, that makes Austria worse, and that's something you haven't been elected for. The same is true of the children who go to school: For these too, you halve the support, the support we have decided here – I think there were almost all the parties here in the house, except the Freedom Party, for more teachers, more social workers, more psychologists, more support in these schools. However, they also halve the support: half as many teachers, no psychologists, no social workers at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You save in the future, you save people, and we don't like that. [[Abg. Neubauer: You can't even talk about the topic! That's embarrassing!]] If you want to hear a sentence about the insurance contract law, I can still say this: In the last few days, there have been reports in the media about an attempt – as it already existed in October – to amend the Insurance Contract Act. At the time, Mr Groiß of the ÖVP and I of the SPÖ felt that we are not doing that – not because we do not see the problem for the insurance industry, but because all the solutions that have been on the table so far have led to the fact that the invoice that may be in the house for the insurance companies, because they have bad legal departments or because their legal departments have not worked well, the taxpayer paid. All the solutions we have seen so far would lead exactly to this. In the meantime, I hear that even now, reasonable politicians are sitting on the side of the government parties here in Parliament, saying no, we do not decide what is on the table, because it would only result in the taxpayer paying for these mistakes of the legal departments in insurance. So if that doesn't happen, it's okay, but if it's coming, we'll really get a problem, because it's potentially about billions, it's about dimensions like the last bank packages. Willing to walk into this financial hole really caused a great deal of damage to Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3527	Mr Karlheinz Kopf is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3551	Mr President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, two comments to my previous speaker: The budget will be set at first reading in every detail tomorrow, but only so much ahead: Mr Finanzminister, I understandably am completely different from my previous speaker. I consider this budget presented by you to be a very serious basis for a functioning and sustainable state of affairs on the one hand and for a performance-oriented but also solidary society, as we want it to be in this country, on the other hand. That is exactly what this budget is all about. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Second comment on Mr Krainer, namely the Insurance Contract Act and the alleged, in the last few days, an attack-like change in law that has been proposed today: This will not take place, nor was it intended. However, I would like to thank Mr Krainer for also certifying that we have a problem. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] And as a financial speaker of the ÖVP and also as chairman of the Financial Committee, although it will, of course, be a matter for the Justice Committee, I say here today: We must find a solution to this issue in the next few months, and we will find one, but with all those involved or affected by this problem. On the legislative instruments under points 2 to 4 of my page only two, three remarks: All these changes are aimed at giving consumers, on the one hand, on the one hand, and in dealing with investment products on the financial market as well as in dealing with insurance products, which in the past have become ever more complex, increasingly unclear for consumers, on the other hand, more information and more security. This is true of the Payment Service Act, which is simply about taking appropriate security measures due to this dramatic change in the direction of electronic applications – useful but also, of course, error-sensitive and abuse-sensitive – and they are created by this Payment Service Act. The same applies to the Insurance Sales Act, under which there are a number of new schemes, in particular for insurance relating to information obligations and welfare rules in the field of insurance distribution I'm fine. These too, I think, are some major improvements to the protection of consumers. The same applies to PRIIP's full-strength law, in which it concerns greater transparency in financial investment products and therefore, I mentioned earlier, to facilitate the handling of these complex products for consumers through standardised documents and standardised information sheets. I think all of these are measures that are necessary, but which, above all, should give consumers more safety in dealing with these instruments and with these products. I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3611	The next item is Mr Peter Kolba's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3633	Mr President. Dear ministers on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen, but especially the students in the gallery and their parents in front of the televisions! Above all, those who have life insurance – and that should be almost everyone – should now take care of a little, because today the Insurance Sales Law amends the decision-making law. ÖVP and FPÖ, driven by the Insurance Association, had proposed an amendment at this point in order to lull an attack on consumer rights into the law. What would have been the objectives of this proposal? First, a reduction in the right of withdrawal granted by the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court in Austria in the event of incorrect or missing information on the right of withdrawal at the conclusion of life assurance, which is a reduction to one month after the completion of the contract. This means that millions of customers who have been paid their contracts for a long time or have made a buyback, which few did, would be excluded from it, unlike the current legal situation, after which they have a life-long right of withdrawal. If a customer currently withdraws from a fund-related life insurance – that is one that depends on the rates, depending on where you have invested – he will receive the premiums paid plus 4 percent interest rate, namely legal interest. The proposal for a law, which should be put through here today, provided for the customers to bear price losses as of 30.4.2018, should be such – and there has been price losses everywhere, because this is the economic problem of people that they have also been promised returns in connection with the award of foreign currency loans, which have never and never realized. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Worm]] The toxicity of the final foreign currency credit leads many to have the prospect of having to hand over the laborious single-family house at the end of the bank. Today, the government coalition wanted to limit the rights of millions of people with life insurance in a massive way. [[Abg. Worm: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Worm: But?]] That this is the case, I take away the “Nelderreichische Nachrichten”, where Klubobmann Rosenkranz explained yesterday morning: Yes, we have said that!, we have also explained why, and exactly this amendment for today has announced. I am very, very glad that, in the consequence, within one, two hours, the spokesperson of the FPÖ has made a statement in one broadcast: [[towards Abg. Worm]] With us, the FPÖ, not!, and has announced that it is necessary to negotiate it in peace. I think this is exemplary, because this is our task here in Parliament, that we negotiate solutions and do not cheat on problems. So thank you – that was in the service of consumers! What scares me, however, is that the “standard” of today reads that the draft has even been written by a lawyer of the insurance association. [[Abg. Wheeler: He reads the “standard ”!]] This is particularly original when the government has the laws written by the lobbys. I think this is very worrying because, as I said, Parliamentaryism is taking place here and not about lobbyists who sit in the Federal Government and who, as the board of directors of Uniqa insurance, have addressed this problem to the government for years. [[Abg. Rädler: This is “standard” and that’s true!]] Now the representative of Uniqa insurance is sitting here and trying to enforce it. [[towards Federal Minister Löger]] One more thing: The applause from the SPÖ remains out, for a good reason: The motion for a law, which should have been put through here today, is a request tabled by Mr Jarolim, together with the ÖVP, just before the election, with the clear intention that this will go down in the election debate, that no one will notice it. [[Abg. Höbart: Again taken too much Baldrian?]] We have noticed, however, and just before the election, he has been withdrawn. [[Abg. Rädler: The last TV viewer turned off!]] I come to the conclusion: One thing we promised our voters, namely: The Pilz list stands for control and transparency. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] That's what we do, and that's what I promise you will have a whole legislative period on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3767	Mr Klubobmann Rosenkranz is speaking on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3791	Mr President. Mr Klubobmann Kolba did first, in addition to the fact that he stands for control and transparency – that may be in the eye of the viewer – – – – you were not present at the press conference yesterday, otherwise you could have quoted me. [[Call the SPÖ:No actual correction!]] I'm actually correcting the statement that I'd announced something about a request: I meant - - – If you listen to me, then it's better – transparent and otherwise something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] Take your Baldrian again, don't put us empty packs, but take it yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kolba: What are you doing?]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Mr President,...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Further calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] My statement is: Policy is responsible for making legal peace. – That was my statement, and not what you falsely claimed here.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3895	If the mood is so excited, the honourable Member cannot make the actual correction either. I ask you to let the speaker speak, then you can weigh this well. [[Call the SPÖ: That's all?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Thank you very much for the comment. Mr Fuchs, State Secretary, has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e3929	Mr President. Mr Klubobmann Rosenkranz has already put a lot of things right. For a given reason, I may also refer to the issue of “everlasting right of withdrawal” – under quotation marks – in life insurance. There is currently no solution to the problem of eternal right of withdrawal in life insurance. Therefore, it was not intended that a reorganisation of the Insurance Contract Act would be on the agenda at today's meeting. That is, the call of the list of mushrooms is false and misleading. I would like to briefly quote this call by Mr Kolba and then replicate it. I quote: ‘Acknowledgment (fund) life insurance. Those who declare withdrawal (due to false or missing withdrawal) are currently receiving their deposits together with 4% interest. Price losses are covered by the insurance. Black and Blue plans that the policyholder will have to bear the price loss from 30.4.2018 onwards. This is to be whipped through at the Mi – that is, today – in the National Council. Signed: ‘Peter Kolba. List of mushrooms’. The list of mushrooms here explores the legal situation which I would like to briefly outline. According to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, the abolition of the right of withdrawal after a year – despite incorrect instruction on the right of withdrawal – is illegal in Europe. The legal consequences of the resignation, Mr Colleague, have not yet been clarified. There are two extreme positions, and one of these extreme positions represents you. The one extreme position is that the policyholder only gets the repurchase value, so the investment losses bear. The other extreme position, which you represent, but which is not equally guaranteed, is that the premiums plus 4 per cent - - - - be careful, then you'll know better next time, Mr. Colleague! [[Abg. Kolba: But many judgments in first and second instance...!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: No polemics from the government bank!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You're on the government bank!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The other extreme position would be to repay the premiums plus 4 percent interest plus any higher investment income.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4069	Mr Fuchs, the State Secretary, is on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4111	Thank you, Mr President. The truth between these two extreme positions will lie in the middle, just as it is very often the case. Mr Kolba, I should like to give you a positive example, perhaps you will better understand it. [[Abg. Kolba:... be decided by the Supreme Court, not by you!]] [[Call the SPÖ:You are a member of the government...!]] That would be as if Mr Kolba were going to book a holiday trip, and ten years later he could challenge the travel booking for an incorrect instruction on the holiday trip, and at the end of the day he would recover the money and interest from the travel agency. [[Call the SPÖ: Inconceivable!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Inconceivable!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Such a 'free holiday model', Mr Kolba, would be mistaken consumer protection. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kolba: That's great!]] At some point, there must be legal peace and legal certainty, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Kolba: Legal certainty...!]] Since potentially all life insurance contracts since 1994 contain incorrect instructions, we must ensure that a wave of withdrawal does not endanger the stability of the insurance industry. [[Abg. Kolba: That's all right! Yes, the profits must remain...!]] [[Further calls to the list Pilz.]] We need a balanced solution, Mr deputies, between the insurance industry on the one hand and consumers' rights on the other, which is very important. [[Abg. Kolba: Yes, yes!]] You have already praised our group today, Mr Wurm. It needs a balanced solution. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We are currently working on this solution, and I ask you to: If you submit yourself constructively, make appropriate proposals for the benefit of consumers, but also those that ensure that the insurance industry does not have to rise to the barricades. A balanced solution is required here, honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4263	Mr Hermann Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4287	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I can already understand the excitement in the ranks of the Social Democrats. ==References== ==References====External links== [[Abg. Variety: False!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You have been ruling this country for ten years – no, not co-regulated, you have ruled in leadership positions. They have put the German Chancellors Gusenbauer, Faymann and Kern. [[Abg. Rendi-Wagner: Content!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] They were chosen because people realized that they were wronged when they elected the Social Democrats to the government. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: How much more have you become in the election? Third party?]] Now I come to the polemics that you want to ban the Secretary of State. I can quote the former Prime Minister of Bavaria Franz Josef Strauss, who once said: [[Abg. Arbitrators: third party!]] “Irren is human, but always wrong is social democratic.” – That’s how it looks! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Not first, not second, but third!]] Another word to you, Mr Klubobmann Kolba: That which you have said is largely lacking any realistic basis. I would recommend that you perhaps act as a fairy taler in the Salzkammergut, which would certainly be a suitable role for you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kolba.]] Mr Krainer said that this budget is being saved among people. – No, it is not saved among people, it is saved for people. [[Call the SPÖ: Of course!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is saved for the families so that they can be upgraded again. It is saved in the sense of social justice, so that it is again the focus. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This budget, which the Federal Minister has presented on behalf of the Government today, represents protection, security, prosperity and social justice. That's how it looks in this country! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Kolba.]] The budget stands for social security. It stands for entrepreneurship. It stands for location security, for internal security and for external security, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy. It is really a turning budget, a red-and-white-red budget in the sense of the Austrians, which provides social peace and which also stands for compensation. – So much, ladies and gentlemen, I say to the budget. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Agenda items 2 to 5 are also about security. It is about safety for consumers, it is about security for users of online services, and finally legal requirements for third payment service providers are made, which will change. For customers, this new legal framework offers more security, especially as regards the protection of private data. Banks and those affected expect clear specifications, and these requirements also guarantee compliance. In short, the equality of the cross-border division with the merger of social rights among credit institutions was addressed because this was addressed in the Committee. The colleague from the SPÖ mentioned in the Committee that the monthly bank statements and credit card statements are now no longer mandatory for consumers. – Yes, but in our opinion this is not an intensification, but merely an adaptation to the digital age, to e-mail traffic and the Internet. High house! In this sense: The budget presented by the Federal Minister is not just a good one, it has been the best budget for 64 years, as we now know. It is a red and white-red budget, it is a budget within the meaning of the citizens, in the sense of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4468	Mrs Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4502	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Much has already been said about change today, and we are now also experiencing changes in Parliament. Even though personally not all the changes I have heard about today, which I have also experienced in the last few minutes here in the House, Nevertheless, I am firmly convinced that change is the only thing in life. I also had this saying for a very long time as a screen saver on my Parliament's laptop. There's also a change for me from tomorrow. I am going to give my last speech here in Parliament today, after exactly 15 years 3 months and a day's work here in the House. Tomorrow I will be praised in Lower Austria as a Councillor for Health and Social Administration with child welfare and youth welfare. I look forward to my new task with much joy, much curiosity and much confidence, not knowing what it will be. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also 3 months ago and a day when I moved into the House. No one knows – and many new colleagues do not know – what is expected of a Member of Parliament, of a Member. No one knows exactly how this will work out. I can only tell you: The paths are going, and I have gone many ways in the last 15 years – many straight paths, sometimes a wrong path, but we have always gone forward. I have been able to welcome many, many students and many other visitors to our home in the last 15 years. The question was very often raised by young people: What did you actually learn before you became a Member of Parliament? What do you need to be able to do as a Member or as a Member of Parliament? – And I often said to them: Nothing. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] Then the big astonishment was there. They thought: What's there? In Austria, training is a very, very important prerequisite for making a career at all. I've always told them: That's the best thing about democracy. Everyone and everyone can become politically active if they have enough commitment and above all – ladies and gentlemen, I am really convinced of this! – people like it. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] If you don't like people, you shouldn't do this job – simply. Then I told them: But then, dear students, you have to learn a lot. You have to learn to read laws. You have to learn to organize yourself very well. You have to learn how to use the house – I wish you all the new colleagues. One has to learn to make one's own concerns the concerns of many so that they can lead to applications or, at best, decisions. One must learn to have strong discussions in order to represent one's position, but always to remain appreciative and respectful to other opinions. You have to learn to make compromises, because that is democracy. One has to learn to explain to one's own electorate why one has agreed to a compromise – that will also be taught by the freedom-loving colleagues. You have to learn to network. You have to learn to deal with the red lamp at the speaker's desk, and it's very difficult to get your views on a theme that you're burning for in 2 or 3 minutes. And if you don't watch out for it, then the folders yell. The Gerald knows that, and Mark will know that in the future. So it's very important: You have to learn to deal with the red lampel. One must also learn to find a balance between constituency work and work here in Parliament. I am convinced that this is important, especially so that you do not lose the ground liability, so that you always have the ear at the voters and the voters in the future. As a Member of Parliament, it must always be aware that everything we decide here in the House has an impact on every person in Austria. We must also be aware that all of us – and that was my first day when I moved into the House – always have a very, very big responsibility. We have a great responsibility because we are, together with the journalists who make opinions in this country, because it is we who make living together in our Republic. I am thinking of a great social democrat, Barbara Prammer, who once said: “It is not about following every trend of time, but rather about making our convictions the trend of time.” [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly what I am convinced of. It is very important with what attitude one makes policy. I always say, The action comes from the attitude. It is of great importance which human image is based on which we shape society and living together. My access has always been to listen to people. I am convinced – and I like to talk about it, everyone knows – that listening is important. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ]] If you always speak for yourself, you never know what the other person thinks, and you can't continue to develop. I'm convinced of that. My access has always been to take people seriously, to meet everyone with appreciation and respect and to take them seriously in their human beings. I like to live in a society – that Christian Kern once said – in which we are proud not to forget the weak. I am proud to live in a society in which solidarity is lived. I always understand with solidarity that she starts when I do something that does not benefit me, but you. – This is solidarity for me. It is also important for me to live in a world of opportunities in which all people can shape their lives. Ladies and gentlemen! I look back on the last 15 years with a lot of gratitude, and I also look back with great joy – joy, too, because I have been able to be the interlocutor for people with disabilities since 2009. We have achieved a lot for people with disabilities at this time. There were big steps, although it might sound small. For example, we have jointly decided on accident insurance for people in employment therapy facilities; many of you have been there. We have solved the problem together in the case of labour testing. We have decided on the inclusion package and have only recently been confirmed by the Adult Protection Act. I think that today's world downsyndrome day is a good opportunity to remember that self-determination and participation are a human right. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and list Pilz.]] Inclusion must not remain a keyword. I would ask everyone present in the House not to forget the rights of people with disabilities in the next few years. As I said, Inclusion is a human right. I also look back with gratitude on the fact that in my social democratic club it was possible to vote according to one's own conscience in a very difficult law, without one having fallen into displeasure. This is also not a matter of course – a warm thank you for it! I thank everyone in the Social Democratic Club. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the friendship I have with you, my friends and friends. ==References== But I would also like to thank all the other colleagues with whom we have debated in committees in many, many hours, together, for finding good solutions for people. I would like to thank all the club secretary and club secretary of the National Social Democratic Council Club, who has accompanied me very well for all Mrs. Dr.in Gabriele Kotzegger, who has been with me for many, many years. I thank my parliamentary staff Stefan Hofstetter and Eva-Maria Gschöpf, who have organized me well – a warm thank you for that! I also thank the officials of the Social Democratic Party in my constituency for being the top candidate for many years. I would also like to thank all the electorate for the great confidence they have given me for 15 years. At this point I would like to say to all those who gave me the preference for the National Council mandate: I can promise you all that I will also make politics in Lower Austria according to my attitude and according to my system of values, because I am convinced that attitude determines action. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a very moving moment to get out after so many years. But I am going to face a new, great challenge, which, as I have said, I expect with curiosity and joy. I wish you all, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups, that you will continue to have serious discussions in the future, but I really want you to appreciate this – because that is the competition and that is also politics. I wish you all, all the good and all that you may be aware of every day how great your responsibility in this House is, how great the shared responsibility of all of us working in politics – for the benefit of all people in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4636	Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to thank you very much, on behalf of the House, for your work here in plenary, in the committees and outside the constituencies. I know how comprehensively your mission has been, at the end of the day. I wish you a lot, good luck, on behalf of everyone for your new challenge. I wish you could also succeed in your new position with what you are doing – dealing with the people, with attitude, in your particular way. – Thank you very much and thank you very much! [[It was a pleasure with ÖVP, SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as with representatives of NEOS.]] Mr Loacker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4669	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Dear Ulli, we are losing with you a committed, honest, authentic politician, a hard-working, pleasant colleague, a great companion in all disability issues, and I wish you all the best and good luck in Lower Austria. I know that it is for every Lower Austrian politician and for every Lower Austrian politician the largest to be active in the Lower Austrian state government. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Sherak and the SPÖ representatives.]] I wish you all the best. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] On the templates relating to payment services law, Banking Act: The main issue is the national implementation of EU directives which affect consumers Ensuring more information and more rights. - So far, so good. What I worry about, however, is the position in the committee and also here in the plenary of the Pilz list and also by the SPÖ and medial also presented by the Chamber of Workers. Whenever we implement EU directives, Gold Plating is warned of, and now, after even more regulation, more regulations, even more restrictions are being cried out, leading to a demise of the customer at the end of the day. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] The philosopher and university professor Konrad Paul Liessmann – others try cardinals, I prefer to refer to the philosophers – sees the appropriateness as an ancient virtue in this context in danger. He formulated this as part of the Austrian savings bank day: “Too much state responsibility also takes the freedom to make it better for yourself.” Over-consumer protection provisions not only affect credit institutions and insurance institutions, but also burden consumers, who are partly treated as under-privileged people by means of too much legal protection. From the point of view of NEOS, it is easy to rethink. Politics does not primarily have the task of mutating people, but it has the task of empowering and enabling people to make their own informed decisions. Customers are not protected by signing 30-page forms before concluding the contract on a financial product, they are protected if they enjoy more financial education in school and in the public. And there's something to do here.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4729	The next item is Mrs Petra Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4751	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the double taxation agreement with Japan. To renew this makes sense – the current one dates back to 1961. In view of the fact that the new agreement addresses OECD and G-20 criteria, but also includes innovations and developments in BEPS, it is useful to conclude this because it contributes to greater transparency, better information exchange and thereby also contributes to the fight against tax avoidance. A robust tax policy in general is also – let alone You tell me! – development policy is extremely important. At the Addis-Abeba Conference on Development Finance in 2015, the topic of Domestic Resource Mobility was a very, very central one, and for this it is simply necessary to have the opportunity to take national taxes. Therefore, double taxation agreements are also very important for countries in the global south, because it is necessary that these countries too be able to obtain a clear, predictable tax income, which they can then finance, for example, their social infrastructure. In the double taxation agreement with Japan, this is absolutely easy – these are two OECD countries, a renewal of their agreement is taking place at the same time. In the case of double taxation agreements with countries of the global south, there is a relatively manifest evidence that they are disadvantageing those who would need tax income particularly urgently, namely the countries of the global south. I would therefore like to suggest that we look at the fact that we Its own double taxation agreements evaluate the extent to which they really contribute to a coherent development policy, because of course there is also a coherent development policy, namely, tax policy, also global tax policy. Do not be angry with the budget speech we have just heard, but I am really horrified at the fact that the Minister of Finance has not even formulated half a sentence on international challenges in his speech. The fact that in his budget speech, Mr Finanzminister views escape exclusively as an internal problem to be dealt with and not as a global challenge that we face, which is, I believe, a real proof of the lack of a broad view in the budget. But nevertheless: We will vote in favour of the double taxation agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4793	Next item is the report by Mr Peter Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4817	Madam President. Mrs. Minister, Mr. State Secretary on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would also like to wish my group colleague Königsberger-Ludwig all the best for her new future in Lower Austria, where she will manage the country together with a responsible country's head of state. All the best and also thanks for the good cooperation! [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the abg. Kitzmüller.]] Secondly, because Mr Bayr referred to the budget, I would like to say very briefly: The budget is an excellent budget. It is a start to a new future, and the international dimension has also been raised very clearly, namely: We are committed to Europe, Europe is our home country, and here we will also put in place the appropriate measures. Let me now turn to the item on the agenda: The renewal of the tax agreement with Japan has already been mentioned. As an economic speaker of my party, it is very important to me that we take this outdated agreement into a new future, because it will be the basis for a trade agreement with Japan. We need fair and transparent trade agreements – there is a commitment by the government, there has also been a confession in the old government's work agreement – because: These are new opportunities for Austria, these are new opportunities for Europe, and this is what we need for prosperity and competitiveness, and – with it – for jobs in our home and in Europe. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haider.]] Japan is a very important export market for us and an important trading partner – Austria's second most important trading partner in Asia. In 2016, Austria’s direct exports to Japan amounted to around 1.3 billion euros. In Austria there are about 60 Japanese branches on site, and in Japan we have about 80 branches of Austrian companies. I think it is very important that these companies have the tax security we give them with this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax relations between the Republic of Austria and Japan are governed by this agreement, and this clearly creates the basis for successful trade relations between Japan and Austria. fen. Trade agreements - I have already mentioned them - are a very important contribution to the competitiveness of our economy, and for this reason we welcome this tax agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4872	Mrs Doris Margreiter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4896	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators at home in front of the screens! Mr Haubner, as you have praised the budget, I must also briefly replicate the budget before I come to the Insurance Sales Act. This budget does not include a measure which was an important economic policy measure and at the beginning of the year by 31. ==References====External links== This measure, i.e. the employment bonus, would have resulted in far-reaching success in just three years with an additional wage reduction of 50 percent of employers' contributions. The high interest of many thousands of companies, the reliability and the need for this support measure, and they show how urgently innovative concepts are necessary for the economy. They also show that the often desired additional wage reduction would have been important. ==References====External links== However, this measure was discontinued in October 2017. A very successful model of the red-black predecessor government had to be soft with this, and it was given room for old ideas and even older client policy, as we have clearly recognized in recent months. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] I quote the following: “The Federal Government has set itself the goal of permanently reducing the tax and tax burden and not making new debts in the medium term.” Therefore, “non-refinanced measures would be questioned and evaluated.” – This was the justification of the Ministry for the abolition and cessation of the employment bonus. But what you're not saying is that exactly this evaluation was thought of right from the beginning. It was part of the measure and it could have been evaluated successfully in two years. Well, we'll never know the result. However, on the basis of 12 000 applications, and at least 64 000 workers, we can clearly see that the measure would have been successful to repeat it again. The entire value chain – around the companies around the employees – could have benefited from this. As I said, we will never know. The employment bonus would have been a successful measure, but it was abolished. Let me now come to the Insurance Sales Act. The amendment – if there should have been such an amendment – apparently did not come. I am glad because I think it is time to bring in many other important points that need to be discussed. This is important because the dissatisfaction between consumers as well as insurance companies and insurance representatives is very high. I experience this daily in my political, economic work. In this sense, I am glad about it. I think if you still have time Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I should like to express my wish to my colleague. Also join Ulli Königsberger-Ludwig and wish her everything, all good for her future. I think we will see each other again and again and also work together in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4956	The next speaker was Mr Franz Leonhard Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e4981	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now discussing several legislative proposals in the debate on these agenda items, and – Mr Krainer has already mentioned this – we are not discussing the budget until tomorrow. Mr Krainer of the SPÖ cannot, of course, allow it to enter into a debate of envy right now. He speaks of gifts to farmers, he speaks of gifts to hoteliers. [[Abg. Loacker: He's right!]] I should also like to say two sentences and to clarify the following: Here are no gifts to the farmers and no gifts to the hoteliers budgeted! It is a matter of appreciation, it is about paying benefits, it is about appropriate framework conditions for entrepreneurs and farmers, and this ultimately benefits all Austrians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But now on the concrete bill, on the one hand to the Insurance Sales Act: The purpose of this draft law is to implement binding Union law. It is about the production of uniform conditions of competition, it is about ensuring a uniform level of protection – these are the key points. The content of this law is the concreteisation of professional and organisational requirements, the introduction of an internal company product release process, general obligations of goodwill and consultation, improvement of product information and increased requirements for the distribution of insurance investment products. I can also say a few sentences to the agreement with Japan: The double taxation agreement with Japan is based on a contract from 1961 and is therefore obsolete. It is necessary that a new Treaty be applied to it. The economic linkage with Japan should also be intensified, and it is therefore necessary to adapt tax matters as well. There are several measures which are intended to be implemented, and these are also addressed in concrete terms. I think we are on a good path with this law, so it should be implemented.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5021	The next item is Mrs Mag.a Selma Yildirim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5046	Madam President. High house! Values Members of the Federal Government! Security, transparency, trust and reliability It is a matter for the government to bring in legislative proposals to protect consumers in Parliament. Financial products are complex, incomprehensible and unclear. We are discussing a law that should bring more transparency before contracts on financial products are concluded. The mandatory, simple and understandable information of consumers in connection with all savings and investment products is necessary, on a DIN A4 page, no longer and no less, precisely because it is about retail investors, in order to check and track people who are unable to carry out stock prices on a daily basis. It is about people who save a contribution each month from their wages so that they have a small upholstery in the pension. I am talking about pension products, which are, however, excluded from the implementation of the EU regulation. The information requirement – which would be important, because the information needs to be presented in a simplified and clearly defined way – is not the only way to prevent pension insurance products such as the award-winning future provision, pension supplementary insurance and future insurance contracts. It is clear to me that in the context of EU Regulation 1286 of 2014, these derogations exist, but, ladies and gentlemen, nothing and no one would prevent us from adopting a better regulation here in this Parliament, just as the representatives of interests call for – I am addressing the Federal Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB, which have brought in very well-founded criticism and suggestions in the review process. Safety, transparency, trust and reliability, which unfortunately lacks this law specifically in relation to those products in which they are particularly appropriate, namely in the area of pension provision. That is why I still hope for a rethinking in the sense of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5091	Mr Nico Marchetti is next speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5115	Madam President. Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! As one of the youngest Members of this Parliament, it has always been particularly important from the very beginning to explain the processes in this House particularly simple and understandable. This has done quite well until now, until I have learned that I need to talk about the PRIIP Voluntary Act today, as a result of the effective implementation of EU Regulation 1286/2014. I'd say, challenge accepted; I will now try to explain this law so easily that no spectator in front of the TV has to turn off the TV. The intention behind this law is a similar one. Not all consumers are financial experts, not everyone knows each other in detail with all investment products. Therefore, in order to be able to experience all these tricks and risks and because Dr. Google is certainly not a good investment advisor, the EU has decided to develop a uniform standard form for similar products, so that it is really easy to understand what this product includes; then you know what costs, risks and opportunities it involves. And because it makes sense and we are a pro-European government, we are of course very happy to implement this EU regulation. As this works, I would also like to explain on the basis of the budget, which has already been the subject today, and on the basis of which I would like to draw up a leaflet: Costs are still a current tax and tax rate of 42.7 percent. The aim of the product, i.e. the double budget, is for the first time to stop making debts in this country for 60 years. The means of achieving this Aims are good economic growth, a good interest rate situation and 2.5 billion euros savings in the system. The chances of this double budget are: no new debt backpack for young people in this country, free money for long-term investments and a reduction in the tax and tax rate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The risk of this budget, as with any budget in this world, is, of course, the general economic situation. Finally, I would say: The decision of this PRIIP full-time law is an absolutely sensible story for consumers, and the double budget 2018 and 2019 is certainly a milestone for young people in this country. Since I have been politically involved, I am committed to the fact that no debt is made that we do not live at the expense of future generations. This has been successful today, and I am proud to be able to get up soon when the vote is about actually implementing this budget. It is a historic day and a great success of this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5170	Next speaker: Mr Reinhold Einwallner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5191	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! I refer to the Insurance Sales Act, which refers to the parts that really come into force today, and not to the amendment that God is not coming, which could once again be averted. This amendment is a minimum harmonisation, and this is also our criticism, Mr Minister, because this would have been the opportunity to strengthen consumer protection. Unfortunately, this opportunity is not being used. I also note that NEOS does not seem to care about consumer protection and that you, Mr Loacker, have adopted consumer protection. This has arrived, we will continue to tell people that NEOS are not ready to protect consumers accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen! Although this novelle comes to a complaint office in the Social Ministry – which is to be welcomed – the complaints offices in the insurance sector are unfortunately not as designed as we would have wished. In fact, there is a lack of concreteness; it is not even clearly regulated until when a complaint has to be dealt with and when a feedback has to come – unlike the Payment Services Act, in which this is clearly regulated. The main criticism, however, is the distribution of the insurance commissions, the distribution commissions. We have already discussed this in committee, Minister. It is our wish to take our approach that the commissions should really be made on the whole of the Community. It is not just the first few years of the contract, because these are the lines of conflict between policy-makers and insurance, and unfortunately nothing has been done. You argue that this is not necessarily necessary in the context of this harmonisation, and I am very sorry because you had the opportunity, of course, to change and regulate it; but this is what you are doing. So when it comes to the concerns of consumers, you obviously have time. At other points, you're faster. That is the main criticism, of course, why we do not agree with this novel. Thank God the amendment, as he was already prepared, has not come; my previous speakers have already given their views on this. Let me also say a sentence on the budget because my previous speaker has just tried to praise this budget in this way: Unfortunately, what we were afraid of has happened. Now we have it black on white that you implement your client policy in this budget and the people in this country stay on track. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5242	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we are going to get to the vote. I ask the honourable Members to take their seats; we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law that amends the 2018 Payment Services Act, which amends the Alternative Financing Act, the Banking Act, the E-Money Act and other laws, including title and receipt in 60 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who approves the draft law at third reading? – That too is the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Insurance Sales Amendment Act 2018, title and receipt in 26 of the Supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? - That's the majority. We shall immediately reach the third reading. Who is in favour of the draft law in third reading? - That's the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Act on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) No. 1286/2014 on basic information sheets for packaged investment products for retail investors and insurance investment products and the Financial Market Supervisory Act is amended, together with the title and receipt in 24 of the supplements. Who is in favour of this bill? - That's the majority. This is the third reading. Please send a sign at the time of approval at the third reading. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Japan to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and to prevent tax reduction and circumvention, in 6 of the supplements referred to in Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Whoever gives his consent to this, I ask for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:28:06]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Tourism on the Government template (23 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the 1994 VAT Act (58 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5359	So we reach the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Max Unterrainer is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5383	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! One is particularly important to me in this debate on VAT reduction from 13 to 10 percent: Economic and tourism policies are urgently needed – better today than tomorrow – also because in this context – very, very important – it is a whole, quite a lot of jobs. That is why measures that counteract the structural problems of the leisure and tourism industry also find our full support from the SPÖ. There is our agreement when it is precisely there, in these things. However, the current legislative amendment shows little effect, not even in terms of approach. This is already shown by the definition of VAT when you look at the literature; there you can read: VAT is used to finance the State and is totally inappropriate as a steering instrument. – This is what most people have already said. Why? - Let's make the investments! They say that now there is more money for investment. But then I may briefly consider how many small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism actually have something to do with this change of law. It amounts to a total of 120 million euros, which does not flow into the state fund. At around 140 million nights, a little more, this is about 85 cents per night, so there is not much left per farm. My colleague, Mr Obernosterer, also said in committee: There are probably around 2,000, 2,500 euros left in the village guest house. So there really is not much left for investment, this bill is not really promising either. What these small and medium-sized enterprises need, however, are measures to ensure that they can really cope with the challenges of the future, they must be healthy businesses. That's where I come back to the real question: To whom, then, does this change of law benefit? – Certainly not the guest, because I believe Hardly that the prices go down, and certainly not the small and the smallest companies, certainly not the village guest yard and certainly not the private room rental. Let's take a look at the maintenance! There is no room for manoeuvre either, and therefore it would be important, Mrs Federal Minister, if we were to put on paper genuinely targeted measures in this direction for businesses. If you look at job security in the leisure and tourism sectors, can you really assume that a reduction from 13 to 10 percent will bring a positive labour market effect? – I do not think so, because the 120 million euros that the Fiscus lacks due to this change in the law could have been used, as the previous government decided, to create jobs for people who want to work but who do not get work because they are too old, too overqualified and therefore too expensive. They do exactly the opposite, you delete the employment bonus, the 20 000 action and cut down on the Integration Fund. In order to improve the conditions for leisure and tourism, this government lacks an overall concept and a differentiated procedure. It is a difference whether you have a farm with 50 beds or a farm with 200 beds and belong to a chain. In this change of law, this differentiation is really not recognizable. This concrete approach is quite simply missing, and the principle of foundry, as it is now, is certainly not a target. The fact is that there is a need for a steering instrument in tourism to remedy these structural problems that really exist, and there is certainly no good means of casting them. In order to address these structural problems, however, it is necessary to define precisely defined framework conditions with appropriate objectives. This must focus, this must be targeted, and it must have the time frame. The structural problems in tourism are diverse: too small sizes, the upcoming generation change, general structural problems and a number of external factors, such as climate change or the exploiting of resources. Market change is also increasingly leading to a deterioration of competitiveness. Austria's tourism is growing, we've always been happy, but if you look at the development from 1995 until now, you can see that 1995 has been the share of the world market 3.2 percent and that today it's only 2.2 percent and we've dropped to 11th place in the international ranking. The share of international tourism revenue has even halved over the same period. If it was 2,8 percent in 1995, it is currently only 1.3 percent. In the field of leisure and tourism, it is therefore necessary to make a very broad approach, from an ecological, social and economic point of view, and this view is simply lacking in this change of law, which is in place. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[12:33]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5507	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Gabriel Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5535	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Mr. Unterrainer, SPÖ tourism spokesperson! So this argument is why it is against the fact that there is a reduction in taxes on tourism – as a tourist speaker! – I can hardly follow, but one thing that shows exactly the economic thinking of the SPÖ and the action of the current government. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the European Parliament, Mr Leichtfried and Mr Vogl]] [[Abg. Lightness: Wholeness of thought!]] You come out here, you are opposed to a reduction in the value added tax for tourism companies on accommodation, on the nights, the weaknesses in tourism also speak, and at the same time you make a request that we need to support these establishments – so you can't define that more clearly. SPÖ philosophy: We take everything away from the people and then we see that we support them there and there! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Philosophy and practice of the current government is, and we have heard today from our Minister of Finance: We want to pay taxes, and we want to promote performance, and the next item on the agenda is the next proof that not only is spoken, but that this is also practiced by this government. [[Abg. Vogl: “Given ”!]] [[Abg. Vogl: Gifted!]] I am proud as a tourist speaker – and I am 12 years in this house – that I am able to stand here today and say, after the many burdens that tourism has had to experience in recent years, that this government – and thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for making this possible so quickly and also at the first meetings – reduces VAT from 13 per cent to 10 per cent. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Vogl]] [[Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger: The 3 percent...!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Why is that important and correct? – We know the equity ratio of tourism companies. We know that approximately 41 percent of tourism companies have a negative capital level; they are far from what other companies have. But we also know what has helped tourism in recent years, because more has been invested: low interest rates. We know that these will no longer go down, but – if you look a little into the future – they will rise again; then it will be taken away again. There is nothing more important than this 3 per cent reduction in VAT on the budget for tourism companies, in order to strengthen the equity ratio of tourism companies and enable more investment to be made. Tourism companies are a sector that is established in Austria and is known worldwide for its quality, and the money that is earned there will also be invested there. We cannot carry our businesses beyond borders, but we invest at home. We know that tourism, especially in rural regions, is the only way to operate next to agriculture, and all around it depends on it. That's why it's both right and important that this is done. I am proud that I can speak here today about saying my words on this, and I would like to say one more: Thank God we have come away from this policy, first take away and then give a bit of something again. We want to strengthen the performance providers. We want to take away the farms less; and there you can talk to a businessman where you want, and whether the red, blue, green or black is completely sausaged, every businessman says: If you take me away less, you need to give me less! – It’s as simple as that, and this government, as I said, shows it. [[Abg. Schellhorn:... Chamber of Commerce!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! All that is saved here counts; Mr Unterrainer asked: What is it for a small farm, these 2 000 or 3 000 euros? So I can only say: Go out to the guesthouses and ask what is in the balance sheet at the end of the year! Do you know what 2,000, 3,000, 4,000 euros are? Guys, let's stay on the bottom of the facts and let's see what's going to be deserved! Everyone does not deserve what we earn in here, because for what we earn here, I tell you quite honestly, must be in a small farm, in a inn – and I come from a inn – the whole family with parents and children work all year round, so that what remains is what we alone, when we sit in here, earn – and not even that, I honestly say! I'm telling you, my colleague, you're a practicing host yourself. With a family with a small inn where the whole family helps for free, at the end of the year, the rest of what we earn here is not left. And then to say: 2,000, 3,000 euros are nothing for a small inn! - People, you're far from reality. I'm proud that this is being done today.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5657	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5682	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am already understanding the demands of the tourism industry, and I also, in principle, recognise that tourism is of great importance to Austria. I would, however, like to put the question of the reduction in VAT for hotel stays in a broader context. It is true that on the one hand, the tourism industry in Austria is exposed to competition. That is not a question; I recognize that. That's where I see the fact. that in other countries it looks different with the tax burden on sales than in our country. On the other hand, it is also so that we have to recognize and see how the tourism industry has developed in recent years. The budget report itself states: “Tourism continues to develop very positively.” If you look at the development of profits in the area of tourism, you can see that in fact the development in this area is not so bad. So I wonder, Do you really or not need this tax relief in the field of hotel taxation? Another question I would like to ask myself in this context is the following: In the context of the counter-financing of tax reform 2015/2016, not only has VAT been increased in the area of tourism, but it has also been increased for theatre cards, music performances, admission prices for museums and sales for artistic activity. Let us now take a look at the area for which sales tax has also been increased! This increase has hit artists – to a great extent, a group that is very much under pressure. The artists form a group that is very dangerous to poverty, and on the other hand, it is those who have low incomes, which, of course, are particularly affected, when admission prices for museums and other cultural institutions are indeed increased. I therefore propose an amendment tabled by Mr Wolfgang Zinggl, Mr Bruno Rossmann, friends and friends to the report of the Tourism Committee on the Government Template 23 of the Supplements to a Federal Act amending the VAT Act 1994. The amendment has more than one page, it will be submitted to you or is already before you. I will therefore explain him in his fundamentals. The goal is very simple: Artificial and cultural workers are to be treated as tourism companies. That is the aim of this request. I am seeking approval of this request because I believe that equality between culturalists should be created on the one hand and the tourism industry on the other. In his budget speech, the Federal Minister stressed today that art and culture are location advantages. However, in order to transform these location advantages into a real advantage, which brings to the artists of this country and also to the providers of low incomes, I would like to ask you to agree to this amendment. Another reason that I am particularly concerned with the discharge of tourism companies is the following: There is nothing to ensure that revenue tax relief is actually passed on to consumers. Another argument, which is why I am struggling, is that it is a tax gift in the order of 120 million euros, while at the same time burdened by the double budget 2018/2019 the poorest of society. That is not how policy can be made, ladies and gentlemen, if not! – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] [[12:43]] The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5875	The amendment was explained and distributed in the main guidelines and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Maximilian Linder is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5902	Thank you, Madam President. Minister! Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Mr Rossmann, you have absolutely disagreed with your last two sentences. On the one hand, you ask whether the tax relief will be passed on, and on the other hand, you say that it is a gift to the entrepreneurs. I think there's a contradiction. You're with your two statements. [[Abg. Rossmann:... said in committee!]] But that is your right. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is a discharge of 120 million euros that the tourism industry is doing very well. We have – and we have already heard this today – in the tourism industry, though it is booming and running well, really the largest negative capital of the sectors. The gastronomy fights quite crazyly with the problem that it doesn't even get credit anymore. Most businesses also failed in 2015, when the increase came, to pass on this increase – for competition reasons, for fear of losing even more customers and guests. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] That is why I believe that this question, whether the reduction is passed on or not, is not justified at all, because no one at the time asked whether the farms would pass on this increase or whether they would swallow it themselves. I can name enough farms that they have carried themselves. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As we are today hearing Mr Krainer and Mr Unterrainer speak of the tax gift, which is only EUR 2 000, 2 500 anyway, I say: Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you could work in a business once for half a year! After that, I would ask you to continue talking about 2 000, 2 500 euros as Lappalie. The reality of many businesses is quite different. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are quite large hotel chains that manage to live well. In the gastronomy, in the hotel industry, however, there are really quite, quite, quite a lot of small businesses, family businesses that are no longer able to ask how many hours they spend so that they write at least a black zero that does not know how they will survive the next month. For those, 2 000, 2 500 euros are really a lot of money. Personally, I am a little sorry that our colleague Gerald Hauser, the chairman of the Tourism Committee, cannot be here today, because he was one of those who have fought against this increase since 2015 and have repeatedly made a strong commitment to the reversing of it. Today, he is looking forward to home from the sickbed that the tourism industry will really be relieved by 120 million euros. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing – and this is exactly what came out quite clearly today – is: The SPÖ loves to take away and then play the big distributor. Economic policy, as we understand it in this coalition, looks different: We relieve businesses; we allow them to refinance, work, and in turn create jobs for families and other workers. That, I think, is social economic policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5964	Ms Elisabeth Köstinger spoke on behalf of the Federal Minister next time. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e5988	Madam President. Honourable Members! ==References== November 2018, the turnover tax rate for accommodation and camping sales is reduced from 13 to 10 percent. I also honestly admit that we are correcting a mistake that was made in this area a few years ago. In addition, we are fulfilling one of our central constituencies which we have given, because this federal government stands on the one hand for saving in the system and on the other hand for the discharge of the economy and, in particular, for the working people. Home tourism is one of the most important economic and employment sectors of our country. Millions of people from all over the world come to us every year to spend their holidays in Austria. 144 million nights a year are a very remarkable number. Nevertheless, we must note that despite the increasing number of farms, the revenues of the individual farms are also falling again and again. Our thanks goes to the accommodation companies which, by their quality and performance, made Austria a tourist country and a country of hospitality. In addition, some 300,000 employees in Austria find work in tourism. It is thus one of the most important employment factors, especially in rural areas. In recent months I have been able to visit very many, especially small businesses – especially small and medium-sized hotels and pensions. What we hear everywhere and what has already been expressed by some Members is that in this area of financial pressure and the need to invest are, of course, enormous. Any euro that can be invested must be earned before that. That is what we are actually at the most important point. The question for us is: How, in particular, can we make it easier for hundreds of thousands of people to invest so that they can keep their standards and remain competitive in order to maintain the economic cycle? We must not forget that competition is really huge either. We were able to gain a rather impressive overview of this a few weeks ago, especially in the context of ITB Berlin. If we look beyond national borders, it becomes clear that in 20 out of 28 EU Member States the rate of VAT is somewhat lower than with us. Switzerland, for example, has an VAT rate of 3.7 percent, Germany of 7 percent – that is, our direct neighbours. With this reduction, we are still at the level of Italy and France, because the rate of VAT is 10 per cent, too. The reason for this is that in 2016 the enterprises Of course, this competition, which has been given around Austria, is also the subject of an increase that has not been passed on and has not been able to pass on. Some 30 000 domestic businesses benefit from this reduction and can therefore, of course, make needed investments again. For a farm with around 30 rooms, solid equipment and a half board price of about 80 euros, it is up to 15 000 euros per year. This is, of course, also a relevant amount, which makes it possible to invest again in the necessary infrastructure. The total volume of this tax reduction is around 120 million euros, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is not a gift, but an urgent relief, so that it is precisely those investments that can be made again. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is important to us that we can continue to be an attractive tourist country in Europe; and together with our excellent businesses and their employees, we can do so. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6046	The next item is Mrs Doris Margreiter's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6070	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! The number of guests and nights in 2016 had reached a record value – an increase of 4.2 percent – and fortunately in 2017, this positive trend continued. A second point is very important to me and I want to hold it right at the beginning: In the preamble of the government program it is stated on page 7: ‘All the measures provided for shall be implemented only if it is ensured that any additional costs or reductions are covered by structural counter-financing measures.’ Ms Elisabeth Köstinger said: "But since the government saves 2.5 billion. € plan, the costs could be “covered from the current total budget” – as has been said, amounting to EUR 120 million. So if the new government is looking for counter-financing so that it spends less on spending somewhere else in the budget, then in the next few years we can still focus on a lot of adventurous financing structures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This measure is at first glance quite a discharge for small accommodation companies, but also – and this is important – for large international hotel chains. On the one hand, it is legitimate to consider that excellent entrepreneurial services of many tourism companies are paying off, but these measures are not targeted in our view. It is also incomprehensible why 30 000 companies are relieved, as Mr Rossmann has already indicated, while many other sectors, which have also experienced an increase in VAT to 13 percent at the time, are being ignored. What about one of the most traditional trades in our country, which is struggling with massive young people's problems and has been under increasing pressure in recent years due to multi-layered price increases, namely, the exhibitors? It also concerns the cinema operators, the artists, florists and many others, such as the beekeepers, as the tax rate for honey was also increased. I would like to stress once again the following: In these areas too, there was this increase in VAT from 10 to 13 percent with the votes of the EIA, but for them there seems to be no solution here today. They clearly do not belong to the clientele of this federal government; they do not clearly belong to the group of self-employed people who are to experience a discharge. That is incomprehensible, yes, it is even unfair! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at SPÖ.]] I can tell you: In addition, local tourism is struggling with very different, much more important problems and with other problems, such as the shortage of skilled workers. This will increase in the coming years. If you ask for solutions on this issue, you will not be found in the government programme. On the contrary: The professional scholarships are abolished, the upper Austria is ruled in black and blue, and entire vocational schools and vocational schools are closed or merged, and especially in tourism professions, asylum seekers are constantly pushed off during teaching. [[Abg. Deimek:... against the law!]] On the other hand, many petitions and numerous initiatives are addressed in Upper Austria. With tax reductions for companies, perhaps short-term satisfaction can be achieved, ladies and gentlemen Obernosterer and Linder, but in the long term they do not solve any problems, I tell you. This kind of policy will not give SPÖ its approval. We want a targeted policy and fair solutions. [[Abg. New builder: You haven't brought anything together for ten years!]] Please do not act as if we do not wish small businesses 2 000 to 3 000 euros, on the contrary : [[Abg. Singer: Did you say yes?]] We would like them to have the double, but we would like this to be implemented, not for large international hotel chains, but for those groups that do not relieve you of it, which do not feel lobbyism from you. [[Abg. Neubauer: According to the party book probably!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6181	Next speaker: Mr Josef Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6205	Madam President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Margreiter, you have to explain to me, as I say, how to allocate turnover taxes by size. This will not work so well. However, I would like to start with a jubilee broadcast by the Economic and Social Committee, which it has made on account of Mr Finanzminister's budget speech – and because the issue is just as good, it must be mentioned – and the Economic and Social Committee sends it out: “Double budget has for the first time created more revenue than expenditure since 1954”. - That's what the Economic Union says. So we finally create more revenue than expenditure, that's a great issue. I think that's kind of twisted. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We should not rather think of the tax revenue – and we are pleased about it – but rather that the state is becoming slimmer that the state is becoming more efficient. No, we have 5 percent more tax revenue – the Economic and Social Committee is pleased about this, but not about a complete structural reform. I just want to mention that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Straster: That's the base!]] Mr. Löger mentioned that it was about discharges. The withdrawal from 13 to 10 percent is not a discharge. Mrs Köstinger said it right: This is a withdrawal – it was a mistake! – a faulty and harmful enterprise policy, an ÖVP enterprise policy with a duration of at least 10 400 days. That was a mistake that you corrected – I give you the right thing – but that's all you've done. Mr State Secretary, Mrs Minister, you must not celebrate this as much as you do – although You have visited many small businesses – because the most important point is that the biggest investment brake of those ÖVP errors you have committed is to extend the depreciation period, especially for hotels from 25 to 33 and then to 40 years. This is the economic brake, which is the investment brake that inhibits those businesses. I would like to give you an example, and I would also like to start by explaining why you did this. To extend the depreciation period to 40 years, of course only the operating results are beautiful, but it has provided additional income in corporate taxes. Today, the Economic Federation is pleased about this increase in revenue – against these companies! You have to complain about that. Now for the 40 years: Have you ever been to a hotel bath 40 years old? [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] In 1978, Volkswagen was the first foreign automotive producer to open a assembly plant in the USA – that is already closed. You want to go to a 40-year-old bath today? - You'd turn over there on the heel. Each of us would turn around there on the heel. This is the economic shirt we have, and not the 10- or 13-percent VAT. That's the jumping point. 1978 was the oil crisis. A sauna 40 years old? – Energy efficiency was read in the books at the time, the scientists have talked about how we can make our energy efficiency efficient. We're talking about a depreciation period of 40 years. That's what you've forgotten, that's what it's all about and nothing else! The tax reduction from 13 to 10 percent only strengthens competitiveness, because – as Mrs. Köstinger said – the percentage in all of our competition countries is lower or equal. We are by far that tourist country in the Alps, which is the cheapest offer, but we have never been able to spend the prices, we have never been able to spend the ski lift prices and the ski school prices in winter, and that is what it is all about. It's about the amortization period of 40 years, that's what you need to correct urgently! Last but not least: With what you deliver here, as you can now get rid of a withdrawal that does not bring discharge, you do tourism only today; it is a marketing shame. You should not shut down tourism by saying that we have now done something with the tax reduction from 13 to 10 percent eh. Go on the depreciation period, which is in the valleys, in the tourist regions the largest economic engine you can deliver. Every craftsman is happy when he gets orders, every construction contractor is happy when you re-run the depreciation period to the level on which she has been, that is, 25 years! In the last 18 years, the ÖVP has done something quite different: It has increased depreciation to 40 years, and that's the point!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6260	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hubert Fuchs. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6286	Madam President. I can correct some of what Mr Schellmann – Schellhorn, apologies – has said here. [[Call the NEOS:Schellhorn!]] You are perfectly right, honourable Member, only you have confused the values a little. We had 25 years of amortization until the year 2000, until 2015, we had 33 years and since the last tax reform – which has caused a massive deterioration – for 40 years. Look You're looking at the government programme and remember that we're only 93. Day in office! – We don’t have to be here at all! We have already adopted discharge measures of almost EUR 2 billion, one of which is the withdrawal of the VAT increase for accommodation revenues from 13 to 10 percent, and we have also clearly stated in the government programme that it is an important concern to bring depreciation periods back to the business needs, to make depreciation periods closer to life. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] At present, there is only the linear depreciation. We have agreed that it is our goal to enable a degressive depreciation, but we are not, as I have said, even 100 days in office, and we cannot correct everything that has been done wrong in the past in just under 100 days. We're on a good way. There have already been discharges of EUR 1.9 billion, and the next discharges will be on us. We want to reduce the tax and tax rate towards 40 percent – best below – for this we have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6337	Mrs Kirchbaumer, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6358	Madam President. Dear Mrs. Federal Administration! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! With this draft law we strengthen Austria's economic location. Tourism is finally a central pillar of the domestic economy, and a view beyond our national borders shows that in 20 out of 28 EU countries sales tax on hotels is lower than in Austria. For example, hotel and pension operators in France and Italy also pay only 10 percent VAT, in Germany it is only 7 percent and in Switzerland even 3.7 percent. However, in recent years this situation has not been reflected in room prices, on the contrary, the local tourism industry has taken on a huge burden in competition with our neighbouring countries in order to be able to enforce itself on the market. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only because of this, the Austrian tourism industry has been under increasing pressure for a number of years. The tax increase to 13 percent was a mistake, it has continued to increase to businesses. Our objective must be to ensure the competitiveness of local businesses and thus remain an attractive holiday destination in Europe. We must therefore ask ourselves the question: Where will the Austrian tourism sector develop in the future? I would like to thank Mrs Bundeswaltunga Elisabeth Köstinger, who has recognized that increasing the number of stays can no longer be the only indicator of tourist success. Rather, we need to consider how we can further increase utilization and quality in the future. For this reason, Ministra Köstinger has now launched the Master Plan Tourism. Now everyone can bring in their ideas where the tourism industry is to develop and how value creation in this sector can be made as sustainable as possible. Our task as a legislator is to support local businesses as much as possible, for it is clear: Every small pension, every hotel has to invest continuously in order to stay at the level that our guests expect. In this context, the reduction in turnover tax is an important first step towards the relief of businesses. As a result of the reduction, we relieve businesses and give them the opportunity to make the most of the investments that are urgently needed. With this measure we also reach the downstream companies in the rural area. These can be pleased with full order books, and by the way also jobs are secured away from the agglomerations. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From the reduction of sales tax from 13 to 10 percent in Austria, there are 30 000 companies in the city and country, and 300,000 people in Austria are employed in the tourism sector. In view of the increasing competitive pressure of foreign holiday destinations, this relief is extremely important for the competitiveness of the economic location, and it is even better that the measure is taken quickly and already on 1st. November 2018 will enter into force in good time at the beginning of the winter season. This Federal Government has set itself the goal of reducing the tax and tax rate to 40 percent – the present draft law shows that this objective will also be implemented. Mr Schellhorn, we invest in quality and not in quantity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6403	Next speaker: Mrs Sandra Wassermann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6428	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! First of all, allow me, on behalf of Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, to wish everything good for her further political path. [[General condolences.]] I am very pleased today that I am also able to speak a few words on the subject of VAT reduction. At this point I am sending greetings to our committeeobmann, Mr Gerald Hauser, and I wish you well. He has fought tirelessly for this reduction and, with his heartfelt commitment over the years, has also provided for a liberal manuscript in this decision; a warm thanks for it from this point of view! I also say a thank you to the Federal Minister. The Committee meeting was very constructive – of course, it facilitates the work when you understand yourself in such a consensual way – and we have made this decision. It is remarkable to me that we can take this decision at the beginning of this legislative period. This shows, on the one hand, that we comply with our election promises, but on the other hand, that we take the election promises very seriously. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the last few days, I've had a few conversations with a few entrepreneurs from the hotel industry, among other things also with in-house operators, and all of them have given me their great relief. You can imagine this: In recent years, many businesses have reported a 3 percent loss in their balance sheet, but that does not mean enough: As an example, I would like to point out that there have also been further increases in fees, the increase in local taxes in the capital of Klagenfurt. FPÖ voted against, but SPÖ mayor Mathiaschitz has unfortunately driven this increase in fees to the burden of the tourism industry. Under these conditions it will be very difficult for the tourism industry. But what needs to be very beneficial to entrepreneurs in this respect is that they have not turned these tax increases on customers in the past. I therefore say quite clearly that tourism companies need this tax relief, it is more than necessary, because it is up to the skilled entrepreneurs to make these lost years out of the past and to carry out the long-awaited investments. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] For my home country, the tourist country of Carinthia, I am of course particularly pleased with this decision; I support and particularly support this decision. Finally, I would like to mention a chasal chain, which will also make a lot of clear for the opposition: The tax reduction will strengthen businesses for further investment and remain marketable; competitiveness will be increased; the uniformisation of tax rates will reduce red tape in particular, which will allow more time for guests and also more time for customers. In this positive example, you can already see what is possible if the Freedom Party is in government responsibility. It is again being worked constructively for the citizens. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Last: The tourism country of Austria is flourishing again – on the one hand, with the beginning of the calendarian spring yesterday, on the other hand, but also visibly on the political turn of time, when there is the will to design and work of the government coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6497	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Stefan Schnöll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6521	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear sisters! Oh, my God! Of course, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Finance, the Federal Government as a whole, but of course also the hard working people in our country, who will allow us to achieve a budget surplus for the first time in 2019. I am aware that not everyone in this room will be grateful for it, but I am sure that future generations will be very grateful that we will again be able to make more investments for our future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to say that saving is not a self-interest for us. We save to be able to relieve the low-earners, the families, but of course also the tourism sector, and that is very important. I want to lose a few words on tourism now. It's about 120 million euros. There are many who now naturally ask: Is that really necessary? Do we really need this discharge? We've got record numbers about what's going on and what's going on and what's going on. – That’s all right, especially if you look at my beautiful homeland Salzburg. Not only do we reach great numbers of nights in winter, we also create an increase in summer tourism by 3.8 percent. It is noted that the year-round strategy of our head of state Wilfried Haslauer is finally bearing fruit. This is a good starting point, no doubt, but please don't forget: Tourism is about something else, not about the number of nights, but about the economic yield power, which is the central indicator of the tourism balance sheet, and nothing else! We have a low level of equity in tourism, as our tourist speaker Obernoster has already mentioned. Everything will be invested: It will be invested in the regional economy, the carpenter, the installer et cetera. This must also be because tourism has created an eerie competition through booking platforms. The holiday behaviour is becoming more and more volatile, there is no guarantee at all that people will make holidays with us in Austria. We need to be aware of this. They make vacation there once and once and usually now rather shorter, more often. We need to prove ourselves and, above all, our businesses again and again. Mrs Köstinger has already brought a very good example: A hotel with about 70 beds with a capacity of 180 days full capacity, 80 euros for the half board, is now available 15 000 euros more. Even smaller businesses – I don't want to do this as well as the colleague from the SPÖ – have a few thousand euros more available, and that's great for the businesses. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I do not need to talk about administrative simplification by reducing VAT, which, of course, also plays a role. In conclusion, I would like to say that the figures are not God-given, and that our businesses have to re-achieve each year. This requires investment and we create the framework conditions for our beautiful country. This government is keeping its promises. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6579	Next speaker: Mr Andreas Kühberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6603	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear Seers! We have already announced the reduction of sales tax from 13 to 10 percent in our election campaign. This discharge is very, very important and urgently necessary for our accommodation companies, because we have to remain competitive within the international framework and because we need to strengthen and maintain the tourism destination Austria. Every euro that will be taken in more and above all will remain – it will be left in the future! – one thing – I trust to say – will be invested in our businesses. That's what Mrs. Minister said, 120 million euros. These stay in the communities, stay in the region, the added value shows up there. Mr Rossmann, you said that our hosts are having a hard time. I can tell you – I come from the gastronomy myself – as mayor, I also see it, and I very much appreciate it. They do heavy, good work in their businesses. They stand 18 hours in their businesses, they are there and invest for the youth so that they are motivated to take over the businesses. [[Call at the list Pilz: Others do it too!]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Many wait for this extra money and want to invest it in more quality, in higher standards, and we all, I trust to say, benefit from it. As a mayor in the rural area, I can say that we benefit from farm products and food. The infrastructure we all benefit from will be strengthened. This infrastructure is virtually supported by tourism, it is only strengthened by tourism. Peelers, installers, tile armies do not come from abroad who come from the region. If a host invests something, the money arrives in the region. As we have seen in Ireland or Germany, this reduction in VAT is also an employment engine. In my federal state, Styria, 35 000 people are employed in tourism – twice as many women as men, quite, very important – and 1,200 apprentices are trained. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] - You say it, yes, exactly. This is important in the rural regions, but also in the city. We need these jobs and therefore we need this reduction, because in great regions it is not always easy to find a job. The accommodation establishments are those establishments that provide the work there, which can prevent emigration, and I am proud of that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to say the following: I would like to thank our hosts for simply doing great work because they are taking entrepreneurial initiatives because they are simply investing, and especially because they make our Austria the country it is, a number one tourism country – a warm thank you for that! That is why this decision is very important today.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6657	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 23 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Dr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional or amendment concerning paragraphs 1 and 2. Whoever agrees to this, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority, so the request is rejected. We shall immediately vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is the majority, accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees with the draft law in third reading? - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Underrunners, colleagues and colleagues on ‘focused, targeted and time-limited support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the tourism and leisure sectors’. Who is in favour of this motion for a resolution? – This is the minority. Rejected. [[13:21:33]] 7. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the report of the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism on the annual forecast for 2018 on the basis of the Commission's legislative and working programme and the 18 months programme of the Council (III-106/55 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6752	So we reach the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6779	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Last week, at the first meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the Federal Minister gave us the opportunity to learn about her goals and ideas for the first time. Mrs Bundesminister, my summary of what was said last week by you compared to your predecessor in the last legislative period, Andrä Rupprechter, reads: More of the same! – Re-government looks different. In the discussion on the reports, the environmental situation was presented as rosy. - We know that's not the way it is. The opposition's applications have been postponed, and so on. In some cases, there have been inconsistencies or divergent answers to specific questions, in particular as regards budgeting 2018 and 2019 in the environmental field, such as that one is in close coordination with the Ministry of Finance. Since today, we know how this close coordination with the Ministry of Finance looks. Apart from the fact that there were very few statements made by the Federal Minister on the budget itself, the following can be found in the written expression: “To sum up, there are no financial constraints in the environmental field.” Mrs Federal Minister, we will be able to deal with this even more intensively tomorrow at the first reading of the budget, but the integrated climate and energy strategy is already out of the table with this budgeting. If there are no more resources available for this in the next few years, it is already obsolete. You didn't get through there at all! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] I am already very excited about how you want to sell the people who work in the environment. You won't succeed. On the priorities of the Presidency: We criticise the fact that some interesting aspects of the climate policy of the last and also the coming months of German Chancellors have not been mentioned at all in the context of the changes that the Presidency is about to make in the second half of the year. There is no focus on the environment in Austria. Mrs. Federal Minister! They have not even developed in 100 days from the announcement giant to the implementation dwarf. Finally, let your words follow actions!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6827	Mr. Johannes, Member of the European Parliament, is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6851	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is often the views that are very different, because we have worked through five reports in the Committee on the Environment. This is relatively much for a committee. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a real statement and reply, and that she has not yet been able to say anything about the budget, since it was only presented to Parliament today, that is, I believe, nothing new. The aim is that the climate and energy sector should finally have an integrated strategy. You finally have to clean up with a Mar: More money does not mean more and more performance at the end of the day. It is also about efficiency, and I believe it will definitely work very efficiently on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would, however, like to draw particular attention to the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We have the International Forest Day today. We know that in Austria wood grows at our doorstep. 80 percent of the management is private, which means efficiency. Science shows us very clearly that if we want to operate climate change and become active here, we must necessarily use wood. 1 cubic metre of wood ultimately binds 1 tonne of CO2; This applies to construction use as well as to energy use. Austria is a pioneer and has really excellent companies in this area. Forest management is also a good foundation for the entire integrated climate and energy strategy, which is also being developed. The EU annual review also points to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The EU Commission is invited to present a medium-term programme for the implementation of the agenda in the second half of 2018, which has also been mentioned. Austria will be given a very important and special role with the Presidency in the second half of the year. As a basis, access to the eco-social market economy, which has already been reflected in the government programme, should be taken, because only if we can make it environmentally, economically and socially compatible, will we have an approach to sustainable development, and only in this way can we adapt the EU climate targets to the UN sustainability goals, the so-called Sustainable Development Goals, and finally implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this area, however, we can also direct the headlamp to other areas, because often we are not the causers, but perhaps the triggerers. I would like to give an example of palm oil as an addition to bioethanol. 40 percent of the world's deforestation is caused by oil palm plantations. The EU Parliament's plan is to get out of it by 2021. However, the Commission is still sparse, and the road to 2021 is still under way. There are plans to loosen EU external protection for biodiesel and bioethanol imports. That's where we finally get into a double trap: On the one hand, we are competing for European production – we speak of up to 30 percent oilseed production in the European Union – and we are destroying it, and then we have to introduce protein from so-called compound products for animal feed. That is, double import instead of European production – that cannot be the right way! The EU budget will also be the subject of the European Union over the next few months. We will achieve sustainability goals only if we provide all factors as best as possible. It is therefore crazy to be able to remove funds for the common agricultural policy of the European Union, because with these funds we are finally taking the opportunity of the European people to achieve their climate objectives, and also to ensure a negative balance in the overseas environment and climate change.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6919	Next speaker: Mrs Doris Margreiter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e6943	Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can speak again on a subject that is very important to me personally. I am also very grateful for having this opportunity. It's about Mercosur. The negotiations between the European Union and the Mercosur countries of Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay are now in the final phase after 31 rounds of negotiations. The Mercosur countries are undoubtedly an important supplier of raw materials for the EU industry. For example, 60 percent of agricultural imports from Mercosur are raw materials for the food industry and the livestock industry. The negotiations on a free trade agreement, however, cover far more than agricultural products. The planned removal of barriers to trade also covers industrial goods and other goods. For the Mercosur countries, the European Union is already the world's most important market for sales. 85 percent of EU exports to Mercosur are subject to customs duty. Mercosur has offered the EU to release 93 percent of its product range for duty-free trade. The reduction of these tariffs alone would save EU companies costs of EUR 4 billion. The mutual reduction of protective duties and increased economic cooperation are in principle to be welcomed. However, there is no need for arbitration courts, no harmonisation of environmental and social standards and no mutual opening of municipal tenders. Summary: There is no need for a free trade agreement such as the one currently being negotiated, but for fair and fair trade. It's clear: The trend in Europe is leading to an ever more stringent food labeling and an ongoing increase in product quality while at the same time regionalisation, which is good. The Mercosur Free Trade Agreement would be all over countering this trend. The EU is also currently negotiating certain protective clauses, as you know, in order to reduce the expected negative effects. We say: For what? Why not just suspend the negotiations and think about alternatives? I'll tell you: The removal of all barriers to trade will have uncalculated consequences for the Austrian site. In addition, a judgment of the European Court of Justice – at present, the so-called Achmea judgment – is massively calling into question the entire investment protection jurisdiction. According to the ECJ, it is no longer just a question of complying with the principles of the internal market, but rather the intended protection of investors is contrary to the autonomy of Union law, for it is the case of the highest national courts and the ECJ, the full application of Union law, namely in all Member States, and the protection of the rights of individuals. The question now arises as to how the Austrian Federal Government will act in this regard at EU level. ==References====External links== In March 2017, Elisabeth Köstinger, then EU member of the European Union, made a clear statement on the termination of negotiations with Mercosur countries. There is also a relatively up-to-date article in the “Kronen Zeitung” of 15.2.2018, and I may quote: It would be “the signing of the worst free trade agreement for our local farmers so far. ” And: ‘the competition of the companies is overwhelming’, criticise Minister Elisabeth Köstinger, Farmerbund-chef Strasser. I would therefore ask you to agree to the following request, which I will now make and read to: [[Quoted print version removed]] You now have the opportunity to take steps here and agree to this motion for a resolution. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: This is not yet negotiated! There's nothing to sign!]] [[13:34]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7058	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. Mr Walter Rauch came to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7085	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This report by the German Federal Minister for Climate and Environmental Policy in preparation for the Presidency in the second half of 2018 shows many important points that we – Austria, the members of the Federal Government, the High House – can and will also bring in. It is a very ambitious work programme, it is an important work programme in climate and environmental policy for Europe as a whole. I would like to address colleagues Feichtinger: Quite honestly, what is supposed to be persuasive is the assessment of his interpretations, a little of his presentation and the theatralic that he shows here. [[Call the ÖVP:He!]] Diligent were his statements here at the speaker's desk, but not the contents of this work programme, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, he is not here, but as far as the content is concerned, I would like to deal with a few points, first of all with nuclear energy. It is a horse of this Federal Government to act explicitly against nuclear power and against nuclear waste and also to show a sign in Europe in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Another point: Circular economy and waste management. The aim is to put in place explicit measures that will have an impact on employment, the economy and climate policy. It is not worth mentioning the fact that a former government party, which had a lot to do with it at that time, was not to be spoken of. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nature conservation and biodiversity: an important point for the forthcoming Presidency of the Presidency, of course in agreement with the Commission, to set accents and signs. Mrs Bundesminister, it is, of course, up to us to set the appropriate accents, and I have full confidence in you that you will also act accordingly. I would like to mention a few objectives for implementing the 2011-2020 EU biodiversity strategy: combating the main cause of biodiversity losses, reducing the risks of biodiversity and ecosystem services, forcing the implementation of existing legislation on nature conservation, anchoring biodiversity targets in key policy areas and so on. One of the essential points I would like and must take out is, of course, the water. It is an essential factor that we take as a federal government and as a parliament, because water is an important asset that belongs to protected. We will represent this at EU level – together with you – during the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with all the measures and possibilities available to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7150	Now Mrs Bundesminister Elisabeth Köstinger has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7174	Madam President. High house! I am very pleased to be speaking here in Parliament today about the agenda of my section during the EU Presidency, which we will be discussing from 1. It will be taken over by July. It is also very special for me, as I, as a member of the European Parliament, have experienced a total of around 17 Council Presidencys, and I am of course aware of Austria's responsibility in the European Union. However, we are above all at the heart of our European partners, because in the half-year of our Presidency there are extremely many projects that still need to be completed before the European elections in 2019. Our Presidency is, above all, a very challenging one, because we are faced with extremely large issues, such as the conclusion of the Brexit negotiations or the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. These are, of course, discussions that will have a significant impact on the future of the European Union. For me, as the Federal Minister for Sustainability and Tourism, the main priorities of the Presidency are environmental, climate and energy policy, agriculture and fisheries as well as, of course, cohesion policy. The common objective across all these policies is the implementation of a sustainable policy, which also requires the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which gives us an important orientation. The environment and climate will be a very central area of our work within the Presidency of the Council, especially because the COP 24 in Poland will fall into the second half of 2018. Under the Austrian Presidency, of course, EU negotiating mandates are set out on the one hand, on the other hand, we know, especially by the announcement of the USA, that there are many challenges to us from the Paris Convention will, in particular with regard to the development and implementation of all the objectives, in particular with regard to developing countries. The environmental sector will be particularly affected by negotiations to reduce CO2 emissions in transport. In particular, the dossier on CO2 fleet targets for cars and light commercial vehicles, as well as another dossier for heavy commercial vehicles, which the Commission will now present in May 2018, is important here. But also the area of waste prevention will become particularly important for us. As far as the circular economy is concerned, we have recently been able to conclude negotiations on six directives on waste. As a further measure of this circular economy action plan and also of the plastic strategy, the Commission announced for 2018 the legislative proposal on disposable plastic and marine waste. This is precisely the subject of plastic and plastic prevention, we see as one of our major priorities. In the field of energy, the EU Commission presented the Clean Energy Package to all Europeans in November 2016. It is actually the largest energy package the European Union has ever negotiated, it is an important milestone in the implementation of the Paris climate decisions, and it is above all this common roof of the Energy Union. The proposals concern energy efficiency, the internal electricity market, renewable energies and, above all, governance as a governance framework for this Energy Union. Under our Presidency, we are seeking the conclusion of all the remaining dossiers in this package. In the agricultural sector, 2018 will focus on the future of the common agricultural policy after 2020. Based on the Communication on Food and Agriculture of the Future, the Commission is currently working on the legislative proposals on this subject, which will be available at the end of May. The proposal to improve the EU food supply chain will be presented in April, which will also be a very important priority for our Presidency. The aim is, of course, also to: To move folders as far as possible. One of the most important issues, of course, will also be the financing of the future agricultural policy, and we are specifically concerned with what agricultural model of the future we want in Europe. The focus in the forestry sector is on the resumption of the negotiations on a Pan-European Forest Convention and the launch of the review of the EU Forest Strategy – also very important topics when it comes to achieving the climate objectives. Just as we are currently fundamentally reviewing the common agricultural policy, the EU Commission is planning to present a proposal for the future of cohesion policy after 2020 at the end of May. The level of funding and the distribution mechanisms are set in the multiannual financial framework, so we focus on the thematic orientation negotiations and, above all, on technical resolution. It is very important for us to implement an efficient use of resources on the one hand and a basic administrative simplification on the other. These are the main lines of our Presidency. There are, of course, a large number of smaller dossiers that will also be very important. We are in the process of voting very closely with the European Commission, colleagues in the Council and, above all, the European Parliament. I am very pleased that we will have a very detailed debate on the Council programme in May. The planned events, for example the informal councils that will take place in Austria, and, of course, the content of the vote will be a priority. It is of course important for us as the Federal Government to involve Parliament and Members in the work in the preparations for the Presidency in the best possible way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7241	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Pamela Rendi-Wagner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7262	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Her report, Mrs Federal Minister, on the basis of the European Commission's legislative and work programme 2018, is, if you look more closely at it, an all-encompassing, exciting reading, and then, in a very flowering language, which issues must be dealt with at European level at EU level. But what I miss clearly in this report – which has already been mentioned by one of my previous speakers – is Austrian positioning, and that would be the exciting element in this report. I miss the priorities of Austria in the field of environmental and climate policy. This is therefore very interesting – and not only for me – because it is environmental issues, which, you know, should be negotiated and finalized during the time of the Austrian Presidency in the second half of 2018. What do I expect from such reports, which ultimately have to be made by every Federal Minister and every Federal Minister in this country or their officials? . I expect such reports to make it easy for everyone in this country, every interested person and every interested person to find the Austrian positions on the respective dossiers, in this case environmental and climate policy. This is for me transparency, as I expect it from a minister and from a ministry. One issue that comes to mind very quickly in this report is the issue of sustainable Europe. Even there I find not really clear, clear positions. Mrs. Federal Minister! What does sustainability mean for you? – I can tell you what sustainability means to me: that you think beyond the next election date, longer than a legislative period. However, sustainability also means that we leave the next generations of our planet to live the same way we have found it, and it also means to me that you should not only safeguard the interests of agriculture, the agricultural industry. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] My experiences from my time as a Minister of Health in this country are unfortunately those that are developing in this country Your resort, the agricultural resort – no matter which topics it has dealt with in the past; the last were drinking water, glycosate, animal diseases – always concerned first with the concerns of the economy, the agricultural industry, which has been agriculture. Health and the environment are usually secondary. Meanwhile, everyone in this country knows this is clear, and you should also be aware of this: Environmental policy is also health policy, because a healthy environment is the most important resource for healthy growth. But that's where you have to go. In the past, in the use of pesticides, before it becomes a health issue before people get hurt. This is for me the sustainability I also expect from your place of business. The importance of your environmental policy is also reflected in the budget presented today. Thus, contrary to your original draft environmental promotion law, your Minister of Finance has not taken into account the importance of promoting water ecology in the current budget. It seems that your Minister of Finance has more to say in the field of environmental and climate policy than you do. Mrs. Federal Minister, don't forget about our environment, forget about it. Not to the present and future generations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7319	Next speaker: Mr Michael Bernhard. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7344	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! This is about the 2018 Annual Perspective of the Ministry of Sustainability, and I join the criticism of my predecessor: We have a massive problem. In principle, we have been given detailed reports in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, with information on what the EU intends to do – with the restriction: If you don't find a majority there, there's no such thing as that. As Austria's assessment of these changes, there is hardly anything to be found in the reports. What you know is that according to the government's programme of environmental protection, while climate change is a bad thing, you can do everything you can to avoid it, except to take money for it. This unites us with some other countries, which are, however, far outside the European Union and also have a greater savings pressure in the budget. The second – and this really has to be said – threat in environmental policy is that one wants to make us believe today that everything is completely different with the new government and that everything that has been up to now has nothing to do with the acting actors. You have to say quite clearly, and that is, I believe, absolutely so: In recent years, environmental policy has been in the hostagery of the Farmers' Federation. No matter where and how, it was the peasantry who said what had to happen. The funds – and this is now also read in the new budget – are to be used for a more modern mode of production in agriculture, so that environmental protection is adequately done. - It doesn't work that way. I can't understand how you believe you can get through with this! But what you do not actually do is your work, for which you have also been chosen. Now, when I look at the discussion about the emission reduction: There was a common European target from 2014. Austria has known since 2014 that we need a strategy to achieve the corresponding goals. Since 2014, nothing has happened – as has been said: the reign of the peasants. That is quite clear from my point of view. Minister Rupprechter hid this in his drawer, and nothing came out of it. The Minister refers to a draft that we do not know. At the same time, however, we also know what measures we need to take. We have to make sure that there is a proper thermal renovation. This is a huge theme, through which we actually have positive economic effects, but that is above all a question of the budget. This is reduced year after year. We know that in the area of transport, which accounts for one third of all emissions, we have to take major measures whether they are public transport, electric mobility or retrofitting. There are a lot of measures, very concrete measures that have been possible since 2014. – None of this has happened – mostly under the leadership of the ÖVP. The last point: oil heating. It will hardly be believed, but oil heating is still used in new buildings, in relatively new buildings. Now they say these are private associations that promote this. This too is, in fact, a semi-truth which cannot be allowed to stand. Behind the clubs is the OMV, and I say that the state has a certain opportunity to influence it. We themselves finance the pollution that we fight with our tax money and wonder why this does not work. [[Congratulation with NEOS and list of fungus.]] There is the invitation from us NEOS to cooperate and to exchange content together for the best solutions. However, the Ministry of the Environment needs to become a genuine Ministry of the Environment, and the Farmers' Federation needs to become a little more transparent. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7405	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Ing. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7426	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear listeners on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! We are moving towards the EU Presidency in huge steps and have here the report of the Ministry of Sustainability on the work programme. I would like to comment on two issues today. First topic: Atomic power. “Atomkraft is not an answer to climate change and this position is consistently represented by Austria at all levels,” it says in the annual outlook. Mr Rauch von der FPÖ, you also mentioned that nuclear power is an important priority. In Austria there is yes, thank God, broad social consensus. At EU level, however, the State community has unfortunately still not been able to agree on an exit from nuclear power, despite Chernobyl, despite Fukushima. It would be so easy: The EU deletes the exorbitant subsidies for nuclear energy – and it immediately becomes uneconomic. An example: The UK nuclear power plant Hankley Point C received over 35 years of subsidies amounting to 170 billion euros from the taxpayers' pocket after picking. Yes, the exit from the nuclear subsidy requires a revision of the Euratom Treaty. And yes, that's exactly what the government programme says, but not in this report. [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] When, if not now, is the right time to take an Austrian position for the pan-European exit from nuclear energy? We as world-famous antiatomnation, we can now, we have to set accents now. When, if not now, when will we soon be holding the EU Presidency? When, if not now, when we Would you like to present Austria as an energy innovation country? – By the way, this is also set out in the government programme. If nuclear power is not the answer to climate change, which is one thing in space, then energy savings and renewable energies are the answer; they are CO2-free and cheap. It is a myth that renewable energies are expensive. In a genuinely fair competition, taking into account the external costs of CO2 and nuclear risks and with a fair subsidy policy, nuclear power would by no means have any chance. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Unfortunately, the budget presented today has nothing to do with the tax gifts for fossil energy sources. Furthermore, heating oil, natural gas and coal are subsidized. In the EU we need an expansion target of 45 percent for renewable energy. This intermediate goal is necessary in order to preserve the earth from the collapse of the climate. I asked you, Mrs. Bundesminister Köstinger, to work for this at EU level in the Environment Committee. In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, you have declared 35 per cent of renewable energy at EU level, two days later, in the Committee on the Environment, you are back in memory and have meant that a threesome would reach the goal. I wonder, Who put you back there? Who really are the mighty in the country? – If you, Mrs Federal Minister, are not committed to this goal that we need at EU level to limit global warming to two degrees, you also say that you are not doing it, and then you will say what that means! I believe that many people here are not aware of the scope of climate change. If you don't believe me, maybe you believe the recently deceased astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, who told us that if we don't manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to zero by 2050, our planet will turn into a burning fireball. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I'm appealing to Your conscience: Forget about your party membership now! On this issue, which is really about the survival of humanity, about the future of our children, which we are putting into the world today, party-political calculation is really not appropriate. We've got to pull a line. A second issue I would like to address briefly: Microplastics. The report states that Austria will be committed to an exit from the use of microplastics. I have tabled a motion for a resolution to that effect, which was rejected by the Committee on the Environment. What is the Austrian positioning in this regard? – Mrs Federal Minister, you said you preferred a pan-European solution. That's what we know: At home, ask things out loud and clean up the EU if nothing happens. That is why we have been waiting for a pan-European financial transaction tax and other important reforms for years. In the case of microplastics, there can be no more talk of an Austrian single entrance: Great Britain has long banned microplastics, Sweden too. They have also celebrated these countries in the Committee as role models. Austria would not be the first country in this field, but only the pioneer.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7500	Next, Mrs Martina Diesner-Wais will speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7529	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! In my opinion, the report on sustainability and tourism is a clear commitment to climate protection and the efficient use of resources and energy. We've heard it today: In Austria, we are following the model of the eco-social market economy, and this is a holistic model, on the one hand, it sees the sustainability, the ecological situation, but on the other hand also the social and economic aspects united. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] At the time of Austria's Presidency, the climate agreement is defined more closely, and as Austria, we have the opportunity to address crucial points. For example, we can achieve the target of a reduction of CO2 by 40 per cent by 2030. We in Austria are pioneers, because we have a share of 70 percent in the field of electricity, which is covered by renewable energy sources, and thus we are really at the forefront of Europe. The aim of this Federal Government is to produce electricity of 100 percent from renewable energy sources by 2030, to further increase energy efficiency, but also to expand the renewable energy sector in general. Yesterday was the day of water, and the water is also very much at our heart. This will give a high priority to the conservation and improvement of water quality in the context of the EU Presidency. Water is one of our most precious resources and dealing with it one of the major challenges of the 21st century. ==References== Especially as a drinking water-rich country, Austria must handle it with utmost care and ensure that water quality is maintained. The topics of nature conservation, biodiversity and bioeconomics are also the subject of numerous negotiations. Austria will therefore develop a bioeconomic strategy and drive the traditionally strong use of biogenic resources. It is important to protect species, the environment and water effectively, and this is also true of agriculture, which has been condemned so many times today, with its environmental programmes, with the organic farming programme and with the Öpul programme. Our farmers make a truly valuable contribution. In order to ensure that this is still possible in the future, these programmes must also be continued. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Smoking.]] One essential issue is the problem of microplastics. In this respect, there is a strategy, and as our Mrs Minister has already said, she also wants to continue during the Presidency to work towards a general improvement in the reduction of plastic waste. Austria will also see that we are pursuing an ambitious goal in the field of waste recycling. Now another comment, as the nuclear energy has been addressed before: I think nuclear energy is not an answer to the issue of sustainability, it is not an answer to climate change, and therefore Austria is also opposed to aid for nuclear power plants, and also to the construction of nuclear waste dumps near the border. Our Federal Minister Köstinger is soon presenting a climate strategy for Austria, which is the basis for achieving the climate objectives. It will include a number of climate-related measures that will be taken for our generations in the future. which will benefit our youth and the next generations in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7593	Thank you. The next item is the report by Mr Smolle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7618	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is a great honor for me to be able to address the word to you for the first time today. The report deals, among other things, with environmental protection and sustainability in Europe; it is a report that covers a very, very broad spectrum. It ranges from conventional environmental measures to critical raw materials, to circular economy to agriculture, even to tourism. I think it's a very ambitious report. First, let's look at agriculture: As far as agriculture is concerned, intensive negotiations will take place at the time of the Austrian Presidency, as the promotion will look forward to in the future. From Austria, we will certainly do everything we can to ensure that our agriculture is supported accordingly. It is also an essential support for environmental protection, and it is ultimately an essential part of the maintenance of our cultural landscape, which also makes the Connex tourism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Another key word, which has already fallen, is bioeconomics, that is, an increasing farewell from the use of fossil resources to the use of renewable resources. This is also something that is very important for Austria, and the Federal Government is also in favour of developing its own bioeconomic strategy for the state of Austria. The forestry also fits very, very well. I say yes, Forestry is an industry where long-term thinking has existed for a very long time, and this is of course also something extremely important in relation to climate objectives. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Of course, the crucial challenge, which we face globally, is climate change and global warming, and the ambitious goal of the EU to limit them to 1.5 degrees requires very special efforts. Intensive negotiations on how this can be achieved will fall into the time of the Austrian Presidency, and I am convinced that our government will be actively involved. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this report there is a preamble with the title: “Sustainable Europe” addresses the eco-social market economy. This is a very, very essential aspect, because ecology and economy are not contradictions, but ecology is economy in the long term. The Minister's report is ambitious. It covers a wide spectrum, and it is a good basis for the work this year. Therefore, I ask you – the way is far, but the direction is right: Let's go the way together! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7673	Thank you. The next speaker was Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7699	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! If you are pursuing today's debate and the debates of the left half of the empire, you can see: This follows on from what we have experienced in recent weeks, namely the empty content of the opposition and that we are only more concerned with bans: smoking bans, the ban on diesel vehicles – perhaps there is another ban on thinking. [[Abg. Drozda: Yes, because we...!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Drozda.]] Today we have also heard contributions from the deepest socialism, such as that of the colleague Margreiter, who has performed conspiracy theories here today, and Mr Feichtinger has called for a balance sheet of the Federal Government after 93 days. I remember times under Chancellor Faymann when they said they should give him 100 days once. – You have forgotten all of this. Let's think forward! We have great challenges to face. The common agricultural policy has been discussed today, and there is a lot to be said about us. This will also be reflected in the tourism sector, Mr Schellhorn: 2 billion euros in agricultural investment by means of cutbacks, the threat of 160 000 family farms. The Konnex, which was made by our Minister of Finance Löger at the budget speech today, namely that a functioning agriculture is the basis for a functioning tourism, is justified here. You know this very well: 45 billion euro value added in the tourism sector not only means living in rural areas, but also means working in rural areas. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] There are 270 000 people employed in tourism, 10,000 of whom are apprentices, and this should not be forgotten! This is a labour market factor in our country which cannot be underestimated. And if we now continue to look forward to what future-oriented measures are needed – Mrs Rendi-Wagner was the only one on this side that has addressed sustainability in her contribution to the debate – this sustainability that we need in the energy field, we must say: [[pointing toward SPÖ]] In Lower Austria, we produce 100 percent of our electricity from renewable energy, which is only 70 percent throughout Germany. There's air up there, there's still a lot to do. Or we also think about the exhaust-free future in the automotive sector! At the end of the day, there are only 7 000 electric vehicles in Austria. Electromobility is a question of the future! Now you can say that Lower Austria is again a pioneer: We have 4,000 electric vehicles. We support this, we have a strategy in this area. I would like to conclude by saying: Let us remove ourselves from the discussion of the last days and weeks, namely to think in bans, we think in commandments! – Environmental protection is a command of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7751	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-106 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of the report to give a sign of approval. – This is mostly done. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Margreiter, fellow Members, on 'The negotiations on an EU-Mercosur trade agreement'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[14:12:34]] 8. Point Report from the Environment Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (27/BI): "The environmental orientation and social protection of the energy transition in Austria. For the well-being of people and for the protection of habitats and nature” (56 d.e.) 9. Point Report of the Environment Committee on the Citizens' Initiative (6/BI): ‘Indebtedness to deliver unsaleable goods to civil society before waste disposal – anti-removing law’ (57, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7817	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the agenda items 8 and 9 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Robert Laimerdas. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7851	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Dear Seers! Environmental protection, in particular climate protection, means protection of humanity, protection of subsequent generations. As politicians and politicians, we will be measured once by how we deal with existing resources and what processes we initiate in order to preserve and protect high quality life on our planet. The citizens' initiatives on energy change or food waste, i.e. disposable society, are of high overall social interest and have political priority. A consultation of the initiators of the current citizens' initiative is of great importance in a liberal democracy. Although not all claims such as garbage guards or the right to access waste containers as proposed can be implemented, I believe that discussions should be deepened. Unfortunately, this consultation of dedicated citizens has not taken place and has not been made possible by the government parties. Ladies and gentlemen, the progressive climate warming and the disastrous consequences for our world are only to be stopped by consistent actions or attenuate. We have it in our hands, how we deal with our world and how further development affects humanity and all living beings. Austria can take advantage of the energy transition and invest even more in research and development so that we act as a global pioneer in this future policy field. Together, we benefit from the digital revolution for an ecological and socially compatible world in an environment that leaves the area of resource waste and enters a resource-saving and enriching world! In terms of mobility, electricity and heat, behavioural changes are essential in order to implement the changeover and achieve climate objectives. Lip confessions and Sunday speeches are not in place, as are the free purchase of environmental sins. This would be particularly fatal for a country like Austria, which is internationally recognized and respected not only for its cultural institutions, but above all as an alpine republic with unspoiled nature and with a huge reservoir of water. The novelle of environmental impact assessment is due to its implementation, as well as compliance with the Aarhus Convention, which was ratified 13 years ago in order to allow citizens transparent access to information in decision-making procedures and access to courts in environmental proceedings. It is not appropriate to delay, but rather to allow for a genuine participation in environmental issues for citizens. The 2015 Paris Climate Agreements are a milestone in global environmental policy. We all have the highest responsibility here in the House that we also achieve their objectives in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7899	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Gödl is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7923	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Before I deal with the subject, I would like to make it quite clear to Mr Feichtinger, the environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ: You, Mrs Minister, are, I believe, sitting in the committee for five hours and you have spoken and answered all the issues, and you, Mr Umweltsprecher of the SPÖ, have also expressly acknowledged this. That is why I found it all the more strange that you have now delivered such a critical and negative opinion here in plenary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] I would like to expressly stress that our Mrs Ministers have been very much concerned about the issues of environmental protection, climate protection and also clearly demonstrated their competence within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – but now on the current item on the agenda. I believe that we are dealing here with a parliamentary citizens' initiative for the first time in this legislative period, and I would simply like to delete this instrument before entering the subject, including for the audiences on the screens. There is this form of civil participation that brings together people from the population, formulate a common concern and bring it into the plenary session with signatures. To sum up, this first citizen initiative – the topic is “the ecological orientation and social security of the energy transition in Austria” – which we are now dealing with, signed at least 3,200 citizens and brought to Parliament the concerns that are important to them. The text submitted by this Parliamentary citizens' initiative is also very pleasing, and this also proves that this government, but above all the governments before – the environment was actually in recent times, in recent years and decades always in ÖVP hands – has worked very successfully. The first sentence is as follows: “The National Council is invited to continue the very successful climate and energy policy of the Republic of Austria so far, taking more account of environmental and social aspects.” So it is explicitly based on a successful policy – and that is the case. I believe that if we take a look at our government programme, then we must say that is confidence, that is the future that we are planning here, namely to build on this foundation of a good environmental policy. And the concerns raised by this citizens' initiative, namely, priority for energy efficiency measures or also the revision of the existing support system, yes, of course, we take these concerns very seriously and of course they will also be welcomed in our deliberations of the next time. The previous speakers of my group have repeatedly addressed the issue of sustainability and, above all, the eco-social market economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] Yes, it is a trademark of the People's Party and, in particular, of the new People's Party that, in the context of environmental and future policy, we consistently continue to operate this eco-social market economy, which Joschi Riegler – Joschi Riegler – founded in 1990 as Vice-Cancellor of the Republic – founded at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl.]] Of course, any ecological measure must be embedded in the so-called sustainability triangle, including a review of social tolerance and economic accountability. And only if all sides of the triangle are equal in length, namely ecology, economics and social aspects, will they be successful. Mrs Bißmann from the Pilz list, the government programme says that we are clearly committed to a complete abandonment of coal power plants and nuclear power plants. [[Abg. Bißmann: This is not in the report!]] That's not a way from today to tomorrow, I know. Even in the immediate vicinity of where I come from, in Graz environment, we have a gas power plant, we also have a coal power plant running, but the medium-term future must be to substitute the energy we need with purely ecological fuels, with ecological resources. We must not lose sight of social security within the meaning of this citizens' initiative, which we are dealing with here. I think I've already explained that. In all policy areas, but especially in environmental policy, the success depends on whether we can achieve the broadness, whether we can take as far as possible all citizens with them, that each individual, each person, or his or her contribution to better environmental and climate protection. This citizens' initiative on the ecological orientation of our energy transition is such an example that there are many citizens who want to support and strengthen us on this path. Therefore, I also ask you from the opposition: Go along this consistent path we have taken, which we will now continue with our new Minister for the Environment, with us and support us!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e7986	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is Mrs Bißmann's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8007	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! This debate is about petitions and citizens' initiatives, namely two citizens' initiatives: "the ecological orientation and social protection of the energy transition in Austria. For the well-being of people and for the protection of habitats and nature, and “commitment for the delivery of unsaleable goods to civil society before waste disposal – anti-removal law”. – Thank you very much to the initiators of these initiatives, for the many hours of volunteer work so you could bring them here! How many here in the hall know that the right to petition is a relic from the Imperial era, from the monarchy? Since the adoption of the Constitutional Law in 1867, every man and every woman, from the Kammerzofe to the Prince, has been able to apply for audience with Emperor Franz Joseph personally. If the bitter or bitter then faced the emperor and presented a petition, the reception took only 3 minutes, because the answer was already set. This kind of reminds us of the current practice here in Parliament. We have developed access to power and legislation in parliamentary democracy, and the lowest level of access is the parliamentary citizens' initiative, where 500 signatures are required to ensure that a concern can be raised in Parliament. This is a very good opportunity for our citizens to enter into dialogue with us and to gain access to power and legislation. What I was allowed to experience in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives and in the Environment Committee, however, shocked me, really shocked me. The Citizens' Initiative on the Anti-Wegwerp Act, with 8,000 signatures, was launched in October 2014. Parliament has taken almost four years to deal with it. I really thought my pig was whistling. The word employment is actually too high, because in fact we have done nothing at all. Without a content discussion, without even losing words on the content of the citizens' initiative, bourgeois engagement and heartache on behalf of the Committee on Petitions in the Committee on the Environment, a few brief opinions from ministries have been gathered on the road to be debated here by our honourable Members again, by our Members, the initiators of citizens' initiatives still have no right to speak here. The right to speak for initiators is, by the way, a reform proposal by Mr Michael Bernhard of the NEOS. I hope one day he will be realized. At the same time, even the emperor took more time to listen to the citizen. [[Abg. New builders: But you already know that we have a representative democracy!]] We from the Pilz list take living parliamentaryism very seriously, unlike the Wendehals FPÖ, we also take seriously the people's desire for more direct democracy and co-determination. [[Abg. Singer: What's wrong with you?]] Our list founder, Peter Pilz, has already submitted an application here in 1986 for the introduction of direct democracy. [[Abg. Steger: There is direct democracy! If, then you don't have to introduce it, but develop it further!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] And that's exactly where we beat the bow to citizens' initiatives and people's desires, such as the smoker's and the women's people's desire. I want to give the initiators the right to put their proposals before the country's real sovereign, before the people, from a certain number of signatures. [[Abg. Singer: Can we change hair?]] In a short or long time, there is no way past direct democracy, the spirit of time is crying out, the population is ready to show representative surveys. [[Abg. Neubauer: What you don't know!]] [[Abg. Steger: You should inform yourself a little bit better!]] It's just more about how and when. What model we are developing and how we address reservations and concerns about direct democracy, we need to discuss this in detail. We only need to get the results of the democratic survey out of the drawer, which the past government indignantly made disappear there. Dear FPÖ, you have successfully negotiated direct democracy out of the government programme by the ÖVP. [[Abg. Kassinger: Have you read it?]] What will be introduced in 2022 is no more than an appearance of direct democracy. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Mrs Colleague, please stick to the truth!]] [[Abg. Höbart: You already know that the democratic package of the Greens...!]] Let us use the time until then to involve citizens more and to debate direct democracy in a broad way. One of the hopes here in Parliament is the newly established crowd office for crowdsourcing, perhaps there are working approaches for more involvement of citizens. As a matter of principle, I promise you: Not the so-called elites will reform this country and enter the 21st century. At the end of the century, not you and your sponsors. The reform will come from below, from civil society and its few allies in Parliament, who hopefully become more. I want to be one of those, and my group colleagues are for that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8179	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8200	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, Mrs Colleague, it is nice that you are there, even in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it was nice to discuss it with you. I think we all here in Parliament are taking our job seriously. I think you have also said this very positively, and the liberals too take their work very seriously. Citizens' initiatives are something to be taken very seriously. I would like to comment here on the Citizens' Initiative on “Indebtedness to deliver unsaleable goods to civil society before waste disposal – Anti-Wegwerp Act”. Well, that's also true in pre-eastern times, because we know it's fasting. Whether for religious reasons, ritual occasions or health reasons, everyone fasts. What, then, most likely happens on Karsam Day? – Then you will try to make up for what you have fasted with the appropriate food. What remains – you can then look at it on Tuesday – is that wasteberge of disposed food, and that is what this initiative is all about. I'm coming from a time when, if you wanted to throw away a butterbread or a narrow bread, the mother would have gotten a love stat. I don't know if that's still there today. Food was always something sacred at my time, and a minimum pensioner didn't even have that much. Back to the initiative: It wants the commitment of supermarkets to deliver incalculable goods to civil society. In itself, this is a very ambitious thought, also a necessary thought, because it brings us into a variety of topics. It is about waste of food; 1.3 billion tons of food is estimated to be destroyed worldwide per year. This means, in addition, that for the European Union, 173 kilograms of food are thrown away per EU citizen, which means that 30 percent land in agriculture and the producers in the trash, 12 percent in gastronomy and 5 percent in trade. Austria itself records 760 000 tonnes of food waste and losses per year! – I think this is also worth an exclamation, and one should not discuss this topic today or tomorrow, but rather more often. 40 kilos of food land daily in Austria per supermarket. What does that mean? – This, of course, also means a huge disaster for the environment. As far as meat consumption is concerned, Austria is first and foremost in Europe and at 100 kilos a year – that is not so much – it is also at the top of the world. But this also means that one has to think further in order to look at the ecological: 100 kilograms of meat – per kilogram of meat, depending on the species and the type of farming, are used approximately 6 to 16 kilograms of feed. You have to imagine that! Or fish: During fishing, 38 million tonnes of by-catch, 40 percent of the world’s fishing, go back to the sea – suffering animals, dying animals. Austria imports 95 percent of its fish. [[Abg. Vogl: What are you doing about it now?]] One important thing about this petition is to use so-called dumpsters, so ladies and gentlemen, who receive the trash before he even gets into the ton. They want to be closed short with the supermarket chains, because the goal is, in turn, that everything that is edible is handed over to these trash guards. People in unfavorable living conditions are made possible as a result of the free movement of goods and given a springboard into a new, more stable living environment. So that's a very good thing. One point is also to help people in unfavorable living conditions through socio-ocratic self-organisation in non-profit associations to distribute goods. They are moved by an idea that is basically based on a project in Belgium, namely in the city of Herstal in Wallonia. There, for the first time laid down by law, supermarkets were obliged to pass on edible food to caricatures. That's a good story, too. Such a similar thing is also required for Austria. In France, supermarkets with sales areas of at least 400 square meters are already required to provide food that has not been sold with the relevant caricative facilities. Austria has also done something: Austria – which was approved last year by the Federal Minister – is committed to the aim of the UN-Agenda 2030. It has been said that one wants to counteract food disposable mentality and, on the one hand, to reduce food waste to 50 percent by 2030, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, in the household. This agreement was signed by Andrä Rupprechter together with the leading Austrian food trading companies. In the Preamble it was noted that food chains that commit themselves are given a logo with the label “foods are precious!” This is not a bad story, because it is necessary to imagine that the employees are being trained to do so, on the other hand, the food chains must commit themselves to alternative measures, e.g. with reduced or exceeded minimum durability, or to reduce the supply of fresh goods against closure. These are points that the food chains need to observe, and this works in the meantime. We're all excited: The first food report will be presented here in April of this year. If you're talking about food-removing mentality, It always starts with ourselves, with the consumer. We are all consumers, and I believe all those involved in politics will also work to show their environment that food is something precious and valuable. As a model, we should also move forward in the civilian population with a modest lifestyle. The ambitious programme of the Federal Government is also suitable for this. The Federal Government is committed to the vision of zero waste. I can express my heartfelt applause for this. This is about forced cooperation, about disposal, about inland water, about plastic waste, yes, it is really about protecting ecosystems. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[14:36]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8325	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and will then be voted on. Next item is the report by Mr Bernhard. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8349	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is about the citizens’ initiative “the ecological orientation and social security of the energy transition in Austria”. Mr Gödl has said earlier that the initiative gives the impression that everything is currently on the road successfully in Austria. I went to the a more rapid study of the citizens' initiative asked how he came up with the idea. This citizens' initiative, which I would like to add briefly, calls for the priority to be given to improving energy production efficiency before expanding new capacities, and calls for the use of funding to be made more effective, that funding for top-tech research should be available to a greater extent, that a differentiation of support according to the value of energy be made – that is not yet enough – as well as a fundamental reform of the funding system, a new definition of eco-electric surcharges. She wants nature and landscape to be protected more in the future for the next generations, that it is examined what is being destroyed in the wind power, so to speak, in a measure where it might not be necessary, and how this could be prevented. She wishes for a better environmental impact assessment law, she criticises the environmental impact assessment for wind turbines, she wishes more rights for citizens in environmental impact assessment, and she wishes for a accompanying monitoring. All of this does not have to offer our environmental policy today. It must be said quite clearly that we wanted to hear the citizens' initiative on the initiative of NEOS – which was our proposal in the Environment Committee – within the framework of a hearing in Parliament. As a citizens' initiative, a number of legislative proposals have been put forward. This is not without it, from my point of view, to be honoured in the discourse. I believe that the proposal of the government groups – which I am aware of – to pass on and support towards the Ministry of Sustainability, but it would be much more useful if we as the High House were to take our task more seriously in the future and seek discussion and exchange within the National Council with the citizens' initiatives. So it's far too little. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8388	The next item is the report by Mr Schrott. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8410	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad to be able to give my first speech in the National Council today. We only have one world, but if we live on like this, we need several of it. This or similar sayings should remind us of sustainable dealing with our world. – Yes, we probably have to change some habit for that. A good example of this is the handling of our food. Some progress has been made in preventing waste in recent years. But it's still a lot to do. Our goal must be to halve food waste by 2030. A warm thanks goes to our Federal Minister Elli Köstinger, who is already working intensively on this subject. The sustainable handling of what we have is also a financial question. Just as we have to deal with our money in our family, so we have to do it properly as a state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The budget presented by Minister of Finance Löger has this necessary far-reaching view. It's a good start to a new future. However, the budget is not only sustainable, there is also the necessary room for security. I mean, in particular, my home in the Tyrolean Oberland. I am grateful that this budget includes sufficient resources to help in the event of disasters. These means are absolutely necessary in order to ensure our alpine habitat constantly and sustainablely. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, I should also like to point out, in particular, that the Alpine region of Tyrol, through its tourist activities, is crucial to the success of this Republic. The people of my home country contribute a proper portion of the revenue for our state budget through their daily work. Thus, the Tyrolean Oberland is, so to speak, a net payer after Vienna. It is all the more important here in Parliament to ensure that this region is sustained and strongly supported and strengthened. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We in the Tyrolean Oberland have a beautiful habitat, and we know how to handle it with care and sustainability – also in the field of food. The budget here today gives us the necessary financial framework so that the young generation in the alpine habitat can continue to live and operate well. Since the opinion of the citizens is extremely important to us, we would like to make a motion for a resolution on this: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[14:42]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8544	The request is sufficiently supported and will therefore be put to the vote. The next item is the speech by Mr Pewny. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8568	Madam President. High house! Values Advisors! In my first speech today, I can refer to the 'Citizen' initiative on environmental orientation and social security of the energy transition in Austria. To the well-being of people and to the protection of habitats and nature’, which entered the 13th century. It was noted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on 3 March. With regard to the citizens' initiative, I can say that after a year of waiting time – since November 2016 – the change of government has made it into the committee and the plenary session very quickly. We very much accept the concerns of the population – not as was the custom of the previous government, when citizens' initiatives were often postponed for years. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] For example, Mrs. Köstinger will integrate as far as possible the points raised in the preparation of the climate and energy strategy as far as possible, because, ladies and gentlemen, environmental protection is also home protection. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we liberals have always been working for a consistent transition from energy supply to domestic and renewable resources. In general, we strive to protect nature in a partnership of agriculture, forestry, economy, hunting and fishing and see it as our duty to preserve biodiversity for our subsequent generations. We have succeeded in negotiating, together with the ÖVP, a government programme that corresponds to this ceiling. However, it is also important for me to note in this context that many of the demands of this citizens' initiative are in line with the reforms already foreseen in the government programme. After intensive discussion with experts and consultation of stakeholders, the Federal Government has the integrated climate and energy strategy for achieving defined the EU climate targets for Austria for 2030 by reducing CO2 emissions and increasing energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources. The reform of the funding system is also under the Austrian Energy Act Neu, of course, in accordance with European law. However, our goal must be to continuously cover our country's energy supply through renewable energy sources from our own production. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this way, we want to make Austria more independent of energy imports, but at the same time generate a great additional impetus for new investments and thus national value added, new jobs and additional economic growth. In order to achieve the environmental and climate objectives, however, it must be ensured that the various measures are also efficient and do not interact with each other. For this to happen, we need to research through public funding in order to prevent divergent approaches. But it must be kept: The limit for each reform must always be social tolerance. As important as the rapid achievement of climate change objectives may be, it must not in any way be harmful to existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8635	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 56 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of expressing their consent accordingly. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members of the European Parliament on the energy transition. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 2) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 57 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members on smoking, jewelry miners, colleagues on sustainable waste management policy and sustainable handling of food. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 3) [[14:49:20]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (9 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (49 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (12D.B._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the Headquarters of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (50 d.b.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (5D.B._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the opposition to the accession of the Tunisian Republic to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification (51 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8744	We now come to the agenda items 10 to 12 on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Tschank. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the I'm asking him to make his statement. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8771	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV screens! We are dealing with a very crucial issue of security policy today. It is about the security of Europe. It's about global security. We are negotiating and wish to ratify the nuclear weapons treaty here in Austria. 1983 – we look back a little bit – the world was already on the verge of nuclear war. At that time Soviet satellites reported the shooting of US nuclear missiles with the aim of Russia. A courted Russian officer then rated the alarm as a false alarm and thus prevented a chain reaction that could have ended in an atomic third world war. In fact, however, the alarm was triggered only by sun reflections across the American coast. This horror scenario, which has not become reality thanks to God, must never become reality, ladies and gentlemen. The FPÖ and the Austrian Federal Government also stand for this. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Black.]] At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the political mood between East and West was very tense. Today, the situation is not identical, but it is similar in many areas. The relationship of the West to Russia is called Michail Gorbachev as a new Cold War. Massive economic sanctions strain the relationship between the West and Russia. For years, an increasing competition has been established between the major powers. North Korea is now regarded as a nuclear power, and the US is responding to – as Trump has formulated – “fire, anger and power”. It seems as if the great powers did not develop much further in security policy. We are living again in an age of global upgrading. We, the FPÖ and the Austrian Federal Government, are very clearly opposed to this type and any kind of atomic upgrade, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The nuclear weapons treaty to be ratified now contributes to the freedom and security of our continent, even the whole world. Although some political representatives may speak of naïveness, if one doubts the concept of nuclear deterrence, it is a concern to limit the spread of nuclear weapons. This is a fundamental concern, and we are in favour of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The present Treaty is, above all, a reaction by the United Nations and the individual States, such as Austria, to the non-compliance with the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. The objectives of this Treaty, namely disarmament, peaceful use, security, conflict and conflict in reality with the upgrading and modernisation of nuclear weapons. We do not want to accept that, ladies and gentlemen. In view of the devastating effects of nuclear weapons deployments, the Austrian Federal Government firmly rejects this. Let us take a look back to the year 1945, to the end of World War II in the Pacific, and let us take another look at what the use of nuclear weapons actually means! The two Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were levelled to the ground in a few moments. Immediately, 150,000 people died, more than 20,000 people evaporated in the heat of the bomb. In the years that followed, more than 100,000 people died of radioactive radiation. The survivors had to fight with massive late sequences. Take a look at the pictures of the people! On the Internet you can also see in part what the use of nuclear weapons ultimately means. [[The speaker holds a black and white photo of a victim of one of the two atomic bombs.]] This should be a reminder to us, which can trigger and effect the use of nuclear weapons. We say quite clearly here: Never again, and we also stick to it and set a sign with the ratification of this Treaty. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The nuclear weapons ban to be ratified prohibits the manufacture, testing and possession of nuclear weapons and much more that is problematic. As a neutral country, this issue cannot be resolved. We stay with it, out of responsibility for Austria and out of responsibility for our children. - Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8856	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8877	Madam President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The ratification of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons is an important step towards the vision of a nuclear-free world. I think it will be a very further way until we really get there, but Austria has a very good and a very long tradition in this area. We also know very well why we pay particular attention to the humanitarian aspects, the humanitarian effects of nuclear weapons. On the one hand, I would like to point out, with some pride, that Ican, an original in Vienna founded NGO to abolish nuclear weapons, which received the Nobel Peace Prize in 2017. I think it is wonderful that Alexander Kmentt, a member of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was elected as the personal personality of the year in 2014. I also think it is almost natural that Jan Kickert, our Austrian ambassador to the United Nations in New York, is invited by the UN Under-Secretary-General and High Commissioner for Disarmaments to a small clause when it comes to questions of disarmament. So: We have a good reputation in this area, we have done a lot there, and we can follow a good tradition. But the following is not quite understandable to me: I do not know how many of you have already had the opportunity to study the impact targets in addition to the budget figures. In this context, I do not think it is very ambitious if we have an impact target both in 2018 and in 2019, which means that we want to continue to set initiatives within the framework of the United Nations – be it seminars, whether they be conferences, or other international events that we want to initiate – and that we want to keep their number at 20 pieces a year both in 2018 and in 2019, while in 2016 it was 23 pieces. And it's still a lot to do. It is still true that many states have not ratified the corresponding Treaties, have not signed – of course, of course, the nuclear powers. I would also like to take a very brief look at a motion for a resolution, which, in my opinion, has not been tabled in this form of happiness, which has now been modified and which, in my opinion, would not have had any added value for the whole question of ratification, because it would only have had to do with the Content: We are committed to security in Europe with international cooperation. – What is the case now. In this context, Mrs Foreign Minister, it is important for me to say: I noted a few years ago with great regret that Austria has made a swing from a value-led foreign policy to an interest-led foreign policy. I think it is important to see that we do not turn the swivel into a foreign policy, one led by foreign interests. In this context, I would like to remind you that it is really not understandable for me that we have delayed a five-party proposal on the agenda of the last Committee on Foreign Policy, on which Minurso – that is the UN mandate in Western Sahara – to extend human rights observation. For a country that is currently applying for a seat in the Human Rights Council, this is nothing different. However, due to the fact that the Moroccan ambassador called a few people, obviously got some cold feet and wanted to take this five-party request from the agenda. Because that would have been too embarrassing, he was postponed. Not impenetrable either. After there were concerns about this Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and on the part of France, I think it is important not to give in to France, but to make, of course, an Austro-German foreign policy here in this House and also in your home. [[towards Federal Minister Kneissessl]] In the future, we should not be told by other powers or by other countries, as we should be talking about our foreign policy. have stalks. I think we should be confident enough to take that all by ourselves. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8930	That was a point landing. Perfect, ladies and gentlemen. I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 10 to 12 of the agenda, so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:30]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on ‘Etablishing an effective debt brake’ (172/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e8964	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 172/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9081	I now give the floor to Mr Schellhorn on the grounds of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9102	Madam President. Estimated Minister! We have tabled this urgent request because it is a request concerning the establishment of an effective debt brake. You have explained in great detail this morning what you are talking about. You reminded me a little bit of a football club in the “Gletscherliga” if I can say that so salopp, that’s the bottom league: They started a lot and quickly dropped. In this respect, your speech was not marked by content, which must be a reasonable financial policy. [[Abg. Schnoll: 100 days!]] A reasonable financial policy – you also use the word, you have unfortunately not used it as often as performance – must be a sustainable policy. They have also mentioned for themselves, Minister, that there were only two years in which surpluses were generated; I come to speak of them. When you, Mr Finanzminister – you are a little older than I – saw the light of the world in 1965 – you also mentioned today how many Members of the European Parliament had already seen the light of the world in the last surplus – the surplus of the budget in the federal government was just eleven years ago. Today, this surplus is less than 64 years old, and the budget deficit is actually on the best way towards the statutory retirement age, one could say. 64 years of budget deficit without interruption, Minister, 64 years, ladies and gentlemen, this must be brought together first! 31 years of ÖVP government participation, this must also be brought together at this time. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. New builder: You'll never get that together!]] Since the end of World War II, only one minister – and you know that – has succeeded in finding the money. It was Reinhold Kamitz, to whom this “missing skill” happened to have more money in the cash register at the end of the year than he had budgeted. In total, since 1945 – and you mentioned this too – only in 1953 and 1954 surpluses have been achieved in the federal budget. These two surpluses now face 70 years of deficit. Governments over the past decades have even managed to raise new debts even in years of the economic boom. Whether it was economically good years or crisis years, the constant in Austrian budget policy means permanent government debt. Over the last 60 years alone, government debt has grown five times faster than nominal economic performance. Five times faster, ladies and gentlemen! After every black finance minister – and now you can take good care – there was an excuse why the zero deficit has not been achieved. At Molterer it was the Eurofighters, at Pröll it was the economic performance, at Fekter it was still the crisis, at Spindelegger it was the hypo, at Schelling it was the refugees. You're a Turkish now, but I think you're a black man. Since 2008, the debt mountain has increased by 60 percent, i.e. 300 billion euros, and you have also mentioned that. This has happened despite savings of billions, which you have not mentioned, despite the low interest payments. This is an important detail that you must not forget. These economic-related debts must now be repaid again, and this year, too, it will be difficult for you to find an excuse. Even the black-Turkish coal ants have some problem in this high-conjunction to be able to argue this. I represent the opinion – and this is also a guiding principle that my mother taught me: Save in time, then you're in trouble! Now, everyone – I don't say it myself – knows that public debt is not in principle a bad thing, but it depends on what you do with this money. If the money is invested in the future, there is nothing wrong with it. In Austria, however, the money has never been used for single-fit projects, but has always been put into the past. The Republic of Austria spends about 20 percent of the annual economic performance for state consumption and only 3 percent for public investment. So seven times more money flows into public consumption than in public investment. These are your Biedermeier policy and your old style. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Above all, a lot of money goes into the chronic deficitary pension system. Year after year, around 21 billion euros are paid to pensions more than are paid by the assets. This pension is, however, covered each year by taxes and debts. So only a quarter of the annual federal budget must be spent on covering the striking pension gap. A quarter! There is no road built, no teacher or no police paid, no school built, let alone was invested in digitization or research. Are you afraid, Minister, to buy your expensive vote? How do you want to finance the next few years? So I appreciate you, Minister of Finance, because the debate in the Committee was great compared to others, but I must say that you see no need for action for the entire government at all. I should just like to mention that Mrs Sozialminister recently stated that there will be no pension reform during this legislative period. Only last week did you give warning in the “Kurier”: A major pension reform, you said, was not at all in sight. This warning is at least a dangerous threat or a storm warning for all recent years, if I cannot say so. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] There's nothing, but there's nothing about time for new things, but that's the good time for old people, for a policy that doesn't think about the future, not a sustainable improvement in our country. In view of the extremely ongoing economy and the sprinkling tax revenue – at least 5 percent more this year – it is foreseeable that citizens will get away with a blue eye this year from a budgetary point of view – the deficit will be lower than in recent years – but still remains, unlike you announced, a deficit other than you have happiness and even create a surplus due to the high tax revenues. I wouldn't be surprised if there wasn't a crisis in between and the budget won't throw off any surplus. The economic situation will not permanently grow as bad as it is at present. What will the matter look like in economically meager years? . Now I come to the point: that is bad because your budget does not have any structural reform available. As has been impressively shown in recent decades, it is above all the unhealed oversupply of the Austrian government in terms of budget discipline. Other EU countries now consider it natural to produce surpluses in good years, Germany, Holland, Sweden or the Czech Republic, where this was already the case in 2016. We'll take a closer look at our figures. Save in time, then you're in trouble! - That's what distinguishes us. We NEOS have called for a constitutional debt brake since the start of our political action. A debt brake that is not in the Constitution, you can save yourself immediately. This kind of symbolic policy She's been running the ÖVP a lot too often. Even in the days before the last election, we saw again a short-sighted actionism driven by populism. This comes to the next generation also expensive to stand. The sugars with bitter side-taste must finally have an end. In 2008 it was the extension of the hackler pension, 2013 the abolition of the study fees, and in 2017 it was the nursing pension with at least 429 million euros annually, the employment bonus and the 20 000 action with around 780 million euros and the pension hundreds, which also costs us 210 million euros. We need to protect future generations from these Austrian Federal Governments' noises. This can only be done by the government itself tied up. As I believe, Odysseus was bound against the siren singing itself to the mast of the ship, the government should protect itself from the permanent temptations of new debts. This country needs constitutionally safe debt brakes that are flanked by functional spending brakes. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You have also quoted Seneca in your budget speech: You don't dare because it's hard. I think that's the point. It's too tiring for you. It is also too laborious for you, because once you have to be honest, also to tax payers, also to the next generation. As other countries similar to Austria show, these are the instruments that ensure sound budgetary management. There are instruments that guarantee citizens that governments will achieve in economic good years those surpluses that will compensate for poor years' deficits. These are the instruments that ensure that expenditure does not grow faster than revenue. How this works, we could look at the Sweden. As early as the 1990s, Sweden had to see why it is extremely important to keep public debt under control. At that time, the parliamentarians like us could no longer decide how much money should be spent on which projects, but it was the lenders who were determined. [[Abg. Haubner: Who pays...?]] With progressive indebtedness, the political decision-making power was increasingly outsourced to the hated capital markets. With the threatening state pleite came the sharp correction of this political course, this political course, which Austria still considers to be the right one today. That's fatal. Sweden has rehabilitated the budget on the one hand and produced reliable surpluses in good years. Today, the Scandinavian high tax country with the same tax and tax rate now has half as high as Austria. In the mid-1990s, Sweden, like Austria, was indebted to 70 percent of its economic performance. Today, the debt in Austria is close to 80 percent of GDP – you mentioned it – and in Sweden, one is amazed, 40 percent. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that responsible budgetary policy works. If we were Austrian Sweden, we would be in front of a significantly smaller debt mountain today. Among the heads of our children, your children would not be open bills of around 300 billion euros, but of nearly 150 billion euros. Unfortunately, we are not Sweden. Unfortunately, we have to say that in Sweden a surplus target of 1% of GDP has been applicable to the federal government for ten years, and that over a cycle of economics: I repeat: over a cycle of economics. The same applies to the pension system. As a result, the State remains operational for active fiscal policies and can counter them in crisis situations. Save in time, then you're in trouble! – If deficits occur in difficult times, they must be compensated for in good phases. The rule is accompanied by a restriction. In the Swedish Parliament, the budget is decided for at least three years under the premise of the surplus target. You can take this as an example, Mr. Finanzminister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] I even recommend that you fly to Stockholm and let your social democratic colleague Magdalena Andersson explain how to really conduct a proper budgetary policy! In Switzerland, too, the Constitution requires a structural zero deficit. In the absence of this objective, the budget has been implemented in an unconstitutional way. That, in turn, is something the Swiss do not want to be blamed. If government debt remains under control, the Swiss government continues to have the budgetary margin to allow automatic stabilizers to work in times of crisis. The Minister of Finance is a sound management of the budget. I also recommend to you in this context – it is not far away – fly to Bern and let your Swiss counterpart Ueli Maurer explain how to conduct proper budgetary policy! Mr Fuchs can leave you here right now, because he has made the same request in 2015 that we make today, namely to lift the debt brake into the constitutional rank. So he knows what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In my view, Instead of praising yourself here and buying new debts in times of an economic boom like this, they take an example of Switzerland and Sweden and bind themselves with debt and expenditure brakes in the constitutional rank, as well as Odyseus against the siren singing. But I think the ÖVP lacks the Courage. While it was still called “time for new” in the campaign, it is of course time in Parliament for old people, for the benefit of their party guests, for the benefit of the countries. Even your predecessor, Minister of Finance Schelling, said we were living in a country in which everyone is responsible and nobody is responsible. This mentality should finally have its way out. The well-being of your country leaders, I believe, is more important than a sustainable, conscious budget with your budget. Save in time, then you're in trouble! – If you still want to come to your senses and join us to anchor a debt brake in the constitutional order, so that future generations can find a single fit country, then we need to get started and deliver. I believe that this is a general issue, because through this sustainable economy, we are restoring confidence to politicians. Trust in politics and democracy, which is still being given to us after all the smear campaigns last summer, must in particular strengthen you, dear government, and you must not weaken it even further. Secondly, it is important that we have a transparent policy, a transparent budgetary policy. We NEOS demand that you, too, at last make all your inputs and expenditures transparent until the last season of sausages. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] We need budget and fiscal rules, whose violation also has significant consequences so that you can no longer be led around by national leaders. We need stricter fiscal rules so that expenditure is no longer growing faster than revenue. Ladies and gentlemen! We can also make it short: We would have the necessary majority in Parliament to introduce a debt brake in the Constitution, for the next generation. They demand these in your government programme and in your budget report, but do not deliver, and that is the core problem. You said you were keeping your promises. Then I ask you: What's going on? What about your promises? Where's this debt brake? In my shop you say at a nice terrace shop: When, if not now? You have to introduce debt brakes right now and despite this good economy, in order to guarantee sustainable economies, sustainable households in our country also for the next generation. Let us decide together!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9226	The Federal Minister for Finance has made a statement on an opinion. Your speaking time, Mr Minister, should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9248	Madam President. High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and at home! I'm not going to take so much time, I've already claimed you a little bit of a fee with my budget speech. I am pleased, however, that much positive reference has already been made to this in Mr Schellhorn's speech. I would like to introduce a few clarifications and say what was lost yesterday in the budget speech and what I have not deliberately quoted today. It has been deleted from the budget speech yesterday afternoon, because I have read NEOS's urgent request. In this case, there was also the grandmother's quote: “Save in time, then you’re in distress.” – I didn’t want to give myself a copyright discussion, I just want to confirm it in content. The most important message is: It is not about whether we need or not the debt brake – we need it and we also want to define Mr Schellhorn, as we have defined in the government programme, because it is about setting up this constitutional debt brake as well. I believe that at least the contentious debate between the NEOS and the government parties is not so difficult. However, there is another quote where we may now have to strip the copyright level. They asked: “When, if not now?” – This was also shown on election posters of the list Sebastian Kurzin of the form. That is how we have to question this root again, but it meets both of us again. However, there is a need for clarity in the area. It was also formulated today – I hope it has come across clearly –: This government insists that in the coming years, starting from 2019 onwards with a surplus, we will continue to achieve surplus in the medium-term planning process, although at the same time investing, although at the same time we will implement discharge measures in order to further the positive economy. I think that's where we meet. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The only point where we have a difference is the time. If you ask: “When, if not now?” is our argument that we do not now have the optimal condition. Why? – This is not a question of reducing the debt, it is not a question of not meeting the deficit. That's what we do! This is what we are doing, also with the fact that we are currently creating a basis in this area, so that we will consistently achieve this surplus. However, we also need framework conditions, and at European level we currently have the basic discussion on a fiscal pact, which leads to us, as Austrians, to the we are also subject to these EU directives, not completely free and unimpressed by what is to be defined at European level, can define our constitutional basis. That is to say, we want here a meaningful anchorage of constitutional law appropriate to the Austrian situation. That is what we want to refer to. Therefore, in the context of the proposal – I say it a little fluffy now – you want to send me on the journey, you can also save the costs again. I have already had intensive discussions with the Swedish colleague and also with many other EU finance ministers. There are very positive and very good examples, but in the end we need not hide from the others with what we are doing in Austria. I am also looking forward to the fact that, if we consistently implement this path, the first international finance ministers will come to us in the next few years to take an example. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Our approach is to: Yes, we want a constitutional anchoring of the debt brake. We do not see the Swiss model as the ideal model because it does not comply with this EU legal framework because we do not have the general government level there because we do not have these federalist structures there. I think it is more sensible to use a German model, which also provides an additional framework, a suspension in the area of structural deficit. It will also be necessary from our side to provide a clear target directive in order to ensure that, no matter what governments bear responsibility in any way in the coming decades, there must be no more debt. At the same time, however, it must be a reasonable arrangement, which also means that we can not turn our growth, our impulses off and not save ourselves to death, but also ensure a positive development of Austria in the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is, I follow the idea of the constitutional anchorage of the debt brakes also in the sense of the application, but under other EU legal conditions. We expect that the EU's directive in the Fiscal Pact will also have a legislative implementation in Austria in the middle of next year. On this basis, we should work out an appropriate and appropriate implementation for Austria in the next few months. That is why I support the motion put forward by Mrck and Mr Angerer, which is also about working at the right time – as much on the question: “When, if not now?” - that is, if the conditions are met and we also have the right basis to put an overall package on the right legal and legislative level in order to secure the basis for Austria. But I also say: As Minister of Finance, I already feel obliged to do so because there is a decision on a debt brake at government level, and as a Minister of Finance, I am not only obliged to the Constitution, but also obliged to work in accordance with the decisions of the Government. Therefore, you can trust that nothing will happen. We will create the anchorage in the Constitution, and you may assume that: Just as we presented the budgets 2018 and 2019 today – on it can They trust – we will implement them consistently. This means that, without having anchored it, we will not, in any case, build up debt, but reduce it as consistently as we have done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9336	Thank you, Minister. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Strolz has now been notified to the House. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9369	Madam President. High house! Mr Minister, if we have already exchanged kitchen wisdom, I would also like to start with one: “There’s nothing good except you do it.” – That’s a point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I do think that you are not a opponent, and I believe that you will bring credible competence into this office. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] But tomorrow we will discuss in detail that we do not agree with your double budget. But now to the debt brake: If you explain several reasons why this is not happening now – Europe and so on and the whole package – then I must say: I don't believe it, because everything that this government doesn't somehow bring on the edge is moving it. The topic of direct democracy was very important before the elections, after the elections it is said suddenly: 2021. You will then be either already in a new election or in a pre-election campaign. It won't happen. To abolish the cold progression: In the autumn of last year, I negotiated an application with Strache. Sebastian Kurzist moved with waving flags to the election campaign and said: Yeah, we want that too! With Finance Minister Schelling, we actually had an agreement in July. Shortly it turned off before the election, it wrote into its program. The government programme says that it will be evaluated – and today in the early days the plan to abolish the cold progression has been buried. What are you supposed to think about it now when you say: We do this, we do it anyway – but on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day in 2020 – but we first have to look at the EU!Unknown term type: "%s".? What about the EU? – If They say: Let's do it like the Germans. I do not think that we must wait – obviously, those of the classification are also in line with EU law. We NEOS are on the road with two carrying surfaces, on the one hand as a control force – we take this very seriously: Transparency, the guardian of the Constitution - - – Yes, with two wings you fly better, Mr. Lugar, unless you have never been removed, but then you are not from the subject. [[==References====External links== Lugar.]] The second wing is the reform turbo, and this is an area where, of course, we turn on the reform turbo, because the government is not getting under way here. I think the reason you don't want to do it right now is quite simple – I look into your budget speech and I see it –: They actually planned a structural deficit this year and also next year. Yeah, and I don't get it all. Minister! Some have said today that it is a bit harsh if I tell you that even a hydrant as a finance minister would achieve a balanced budget. I do not mean that to you, but that is almost a visual translation. [[Abg. Little: No, not at all!]] - No, no! [[Abg. Wöginger: Then you don't say it!]] [[Abg. Small: The press release has something different!]] This is a visual translation of the opinion of the experts who say: If you don't do anything for two years, there's a balanced budget. The problem is that you do something, but the wrong thing. There are no reforms, no pension reform, no federalism reform, nothing. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The princes of darkness are further encouraged to pour out their feeding aids in the dark. They promised: We do it, put it sharp – but sometime in the future. You could do it this way: Deduction of EUR 50 million in financial compensation for those princes who do not make their funding transparent. You'll find a majority in here, we'll be there immediately. Then you have found 50 million again, I say, probably a few hundred million euros, because the national leaders prefer to continue driving and paying punishment in the dark, at the expense of the citizens. Changes in party funding, structural reform in social security – I do not recognise any of them in 2019. Mr Minister, you know her exactly: If you were to introduce a constitutional debt brake, it would never be possible for you to present a structural deficit with the framework conditions you now have in 2019, because in these framework conditions, which we now have – humiliating economic conditions, declining unemployment, discharge of the social budget, a historic low interest rate phase in the Second Republic – no one could argue that this was in conformity with a serious debt brake in the constitutional rank. You know, of course, that next year you will have to work out a structural surplus. The structural deficit is: the deficit adjusted by economic dynamics. When, if not in the high economy, would you have to have a rich plus here and, of course, a structural plus? That's exactly what you know, and that's the reason you don't do it, because then you can't go on like that before. I think this is a small tragedy that is contained here, because I think you can do better. You as a person can do better, but you already have a little bit of schilling syndrome. I felt that Schelling was actually the best NEOS in the government, but somehow he was tied up. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Haubner: He was good!]] You are also such a chain candidate: They don't come from the spot because you obviously can't be in the hinterland. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] That's a shame! We are ready to hold talks here about a two-thirds majority. If you say not the Swiss model, then you like to put another proposal on the table, but we use the favor of the hour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I know now the list of mushrooms and also the reds come out and say: We don't need it all, because that's all stupid! But then I ask you: What are the foundations of your fiscal and your financial policy, Mr Rossmann? What are the basics? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I quote John Maynard Keynes, who is not in the liberal ancestral gallery, but who stands with red socks in your gallery, Keynes has always said that you should put something aside in good times and invest in bad times. Deficit Donating yes, but please not 70 years in the Second Republic since 1945 – Mr Rossmann, now you have to rewrite the speech – because no one who takes himself seriously can defend it. That doesn't work out – Kai Jan Krainer, please don't defend that. That's a pot, that's a rough pot if you're defending it!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9503	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9524	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! After a rather passionate speech by the campaigning Sepp Schellhorn and a very cabaretist contribution by Klubobmann Strolz, it is necessary to say what is to be said today that we have an excellent finance minister who has given an excellent budget speech today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] With this budget, he has laid the basis for us to start into a new, into a good future. This is important for the people of this country, and this is primarily what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen. It has been the first time since 65 years that we spend less than we take without introducing taxes or raising taxes – and it depends on that. That is what people understand! Anyone who operates at home, in his farm or on his farm knows that you can't spend more than you take. Yes, we in the People's Party have often suffered from the fact that in the end we did not do so, but now we are doing it. Thanks to the Minister of Finance, the 2019 budget has a surplus of more than 500 million euros – half a billion! - off. The Austrians can rely on this: This Minister of Finance, Hartwig Löger, carefully deals with the tax money of the Austrians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] It is the politics with house mind that has found here with this government, and above all it is also the new style. I would also like to say a sentence: Within not more than three months, a double budget has been presented, which in the past is the same, and one has not actually felt anything in the public: not a tank, not a dispute, but we have made it up together within the two coalition parties. People are also proud of this: There is no longer this dispute, we are working together on these things, and we are also cutting off the debt, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr Strolz, of course we will start from 2017 with a deficit of 6.9 billion euros. Today we are already producing a deficit of 2 billion euros, almost 5 billion euros less, and in 2019 we will have a surplus of around 500 million euros. Everything at once doesn't work, and we don't want to save the country, either, but of course we also use the good time, the good economy, and we can finally picture this surplus in 2019, and that's what it's all about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The debt ratio will fall from over 80 percent to about 62 percent in 2022 in this legislative period. We are almost in line with the Maastricht criteria, and I do not need to explain to you that some banks have left us a decent backpack in recent years. It is the right way to get started here. We are on a good path and we will continue to do so together. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] What I personally am especially proud of, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are now implementing the first discharge measures we have promised people. When we agreed to form a government programme together, to work together for the next five years, we promised people: Yes, we want to relieve people, and the first three measures have been launched. The Family Bonus Plus: 1 500 euros per year per child – this is a net amount, ladies and gentlemen, which already reaches full effectiveness at a monthly income of 1,750 euros. This is the greatest tax relief for families with children over the last decades, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] 950 000 families with 1.6 million children will benefit from this. These are family policy measures, which we can really show up on, and which we can be proud of. Tomorrow, we will decide to reduce unemployment insurance contributions in the area of low income between EUR 1 350 and EUR 1 950 gross per month. We are sometimes asked: Why are you doing that? This is the reduction in the tax rate, ladies and gentlemen, which has often been conjured here by this pult. We are reducing these in the area of additional wage costs in the field of employees. And for these people – whether this is a carpenter, a merchant, someone who works in the gastronomy – it's a lot of money if they have 300 or 400 euros a year more available. We relieve these people because they are also members of our society. We need them in our businesses, otherwise the economy wouldn't work as it works. For this we thank these people because they are ultimately on the move every day for our businesses. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The promise made by the Federal Chancellor and also by the FPÖ that in the area of tourism we are again reducing the rate of VAT from 13 to 10 percent is already in the implementation phase. But we also save one, we save in the administration. That is quite challenging, we know, because we often have a entangled system. Finding the right levers and approaches is not always easy. Thanks to the Minister of Finance, we now have the costs in the administration and in the funding of the federal government. If there is a high level of economic activity, you don't need every promotion, so you have to be honest. These are the side effects that we do not necessarily want to have. We save on the costs of the distributed units, also in the rental costs with us in the federal buildings and – yes, we also stand in the process of immigration. If fewer refugees come to our country, we also need less money in the budget. That tells one of the house's minds, people understand that, and that's what it says in the budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least – and this is actually the most important thing –: We invest in the future, in education, in research. We invest in digitalisation, broadband development, and security in this country. 4 000 additional police officers in the field of direct increase and training. This is what is important to people, namely that we continue to be one of the safest countries in the world. The social area is also very well equipped with us. There are few countries that spend more on social and health than in the Republic of Austria. I mention the care sector, which is significantly increased by over 300 million euros. The Minister has also announced that we will be able to bring about a fair solution in the interests of the municipalities and the federal states. The good economy helps us in this – yes, that's right, we have a growth of 3.2 percent. In conclusion, however, I would also like to stress: We have a very positive mood in the economy. 40 percent of economic operators say: Yes, the path that is now being taken is right. We also have a high level of consumer confidence. It is our common responsibility that we also develop this positive mood positively. This applies not only to the government parties, but also to the entire Members of this House. Let's help together so that Austria can go into a good future! This budget provides the basis for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9667	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9688	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Has the word "debt brake" occurred once in this speech? . I think Mr Wöginger has given the speech of tomorrow today, that is, those who are here tomorrow probably hear it a second time. - But it doesn't matter. [[Call the ÖVP:A very good speech!]] [[Abg. tiny: What about your speech on the subject of finance?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I can quite recover some of the points that the NEOS have raised, for example, when they said that, due to the good economic situation, next year and next year, there must be a surplus in it. That's how we see it. That's what all economic research institutes see. It is perfectly correct to say that you have to have balanced households over the economic cycle, provided you are subject to a cycle of economics – not all levels of administration, but at the federal level, we undoubtedly do so. I think that's right and important. For example, if you look at the governments of Kreisky, you will notice that we had five years in a row of general government surpluses – 1970, 1971, 1972, 1973 and 1974 – at that time, you can look into the Wifo series. It was over with the oil price shock. It must not be forgotten that this has led to massive turbulence on world markets. For example, you can draw a comparison with Germany and will see – if you compare year after year – that Austria has made a very solid budget policy. For example, if we look at nominal debt, i.e. how high Austria's debt was as at 31.12.2017, and compare this with a year before that, you'll see: Debt fell not only in relation to GDP but also in nominal terms. Debt reduction is not now any invention of the new federal government. It was also part of the policy of the old Federal Government that of course one said deliberately, consciously and rightly in the financial crisis: Yes, this will cost us money now, yes, now the debt will go up, but when the crisis is over, we have to go down with debt, with deficits! And yes: That's what happens. This has already happened in 2017. Look Get into the nominal debt of last year! It has also declined in euro. That's good and right. But this focus – the most important thing in politics is the debt ratio and the deficit ratio – is a little what NEOS tell us here – which is the most important thing and has to go into the Constitution. Perfectly, which policy area we look at, the most important is always the money. [[Abg. Stroll: This is important!]] You sound, quite honestly, like a Commissioner of the EU. [[Abg. Stroll: Generation-friendly!]] They look at the world exactly from these glasses. We have the European Semester. For example, we have the country reports that look at the European level, how systems – social systems, pension systems – work. They're always talking about it having to be ankle fit. I say, however, a pension system must not only be unique, but also omafit. In connection with pension systems, always forget that this is not a payment for the past. This is always the same game: the pension system as past expenditure. - No! A pension system is present. The people who are in retirement today get the money today, and this is present. This is the money they have to live with today and also have to live with. This is crucial for pension systems. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They judge the pension system only by how much it costs from the budget – as does the European Commission. [[Abg. Stroll: Now for our children!]] They don't see if anyone can live from the pension he gets today. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, that's the topic!]] That is the crucial question. Of course, the financing issue is important, but at least so important, if not even more important, the question is whether the pension system also leads to people who are so old that they can no longer work that they can no longer find work on the labour market, with these pensions being able to maintain their standard of living. If you look at this not only from the point of view of an EU official, as it happens today, then you will say, for example: The German pension system is not Omafit. It may be theoretically unique, although in fact it is not unique, because a pension system is only unique if the grandchildren, that is, those who are small today, also have pensions from which they can live. [[Abg. Stroll: This is our topic!]] - Yes, but our system just makes it up. From 100 euros that will be earned in Austria today, we now spend 13.8 euros on pensions, and this increases to 14.9 euros. – This is the problem we are facing. That's a challenge, but not the world's downfall. It is about organizing that our labour markets work, that as many people as possible are in employment and that there are reasonable wages – then the pension system is secured. The question of the pension system is not only that according to the tax share, but also that: Can I live by this pension? – And this applies to many other areas too. One area that my previous speaker mentioned, I have to take out now, it's the family bonus. [[Abg. Loacker: This is the Social Aid Act!]] It is said that the most important thing is to promote families and so on. I think that's right. However, you could also have put in place a very simple other measure, namely to increase family aid by EUR 100 per month. This would have had the same effect for the people who have children, with two differences: The first difference is: Their current proposal produces insane administrative costs for businesses, tax authorities and parents. It costs administration. If you had simply increased the family allowance by 100 euros, you would have had zero additional administrative costs. Zero! – So your proposal produces administration. The second big difference would have been that the principle that every child in our country is worth the same amount would have been respected. What you're doing now is that a third – or 40 percent – the children get a lot, a little bit, and the ones that are particularly difficult, nothing at all. That's your system! They no longer adhere to the principle that every child is equal in value. There is more administrative burden, and not every child is worth it – and this is only for a statistical reason, because the only one that serves your policy is the statistical one behind it, namely that the tax and tax rate is falling. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Exactly!]] But that's just a statistical effect that you could have solved differently. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9845	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e9866	Madam President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! High house! We are dealing with a urgent request from NEOS on establishing an effective debt brake. After listening to Mr Schellhorn and Mr Strolz's explanations, I must say: Obviously, the request remained with you during the last legislative period, otherwise you would not have submitted it today, but rather listened to the budget speech of our Minister for Finance. Then you'd have saved yourself a lot. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] If one has listened today and the Minister of Finance, who is now in office for 93 days, rejects the accusation that he would be responsible for the country's debt of 300 billion euros today, the Minister of Finance, who today has started a turn in budget policy with a budget he has presented, then this is simply unscrupulous. I have to say: I wouldn't have expected that from NEOS! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] You, who always want to give wings to the country, to the people and, above all, to the youth in that country, come with such a request. You know, and today the Minister of Finance has also stated in the budget speech that it is planned to reduce the debt to a debt ratio of 75 per cent this year, to 70 per cent next year and to 60 per cent by 2022. For this, there is a restrictive course that goes in the direction that one saves in the administration, sees exactly where they go, and, of course, one has to undertake a federalism reform. To do this, it takes a few days more than just 93. But one thing you can believe is that we want to do this seriously and become a means of sustaining this budget – and this is the important thing – and to bring the budget to a lasting settlement in this country. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think that is what the citizens expect, and that is what they can expect from us, because this is the approach that this government has taken, namely to renovate this budget in a sustainable way. Of course, the economy will help us, otherwise it would not be possible, as has already been said. The economic cycles must be used and, accordingly, the budget has been set up with a measure and objective. Mr Krainer has just said that one has forgotten the poorest of the poor, but that is not right either, because the family bonus is for all those who have children today. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! No, it's not both right! If they're unemployed, they won't get him!]] – Of course, Mrs. former Minister, he is an advantage for everyone, because low-earners, single-earners or single-parents receive a negative tax of not only 100 euros, but 250 euros more a year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – This has been taken into account regardless of the family bonus. [[Call at the FPÖ:You must remain modest!]] Mr Strolz said: “When, if not now?” – You are right, colleague Strolz. We have also written this in our government programme on page 21. We want to know a debt brake anchored in the constitutional rank. That is why I am tabling a motion for a resolution. Why we cannot agree with you has already been explained by the Minister for Finance: Fiscal rules must be waited for at EU level. Another reason is that the Swiss model you mention does not match the Austrian federalist system. That is why it is reasonable to look at this in peace. The Minister of Finance has also said that he will look at it and support it. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[15:54]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10006	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. [[15:55:06]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10027	I declare that the request supported by at least 46 Members. 2/US on the establishment of an investigation committee in accordance with § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure on the performance of the tasks of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BAT Research Committee). This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. The desire is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10144	Next speaker: Mr Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10165	I would like to say something about the family bonus to my previous speaker. So we can all expect, and I believe that we should count that on people. [[Call to the FPÖ:The Professor of Redistribution!]] People who do not pay a wage and income tax can receive a maximum of 250 euros per year from the family bonus. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: They won't pay any more taxes!]] People who pay more taxes can get up to 1,500 euros. You call that fair? - No, that's not fair! We will discuss this – and we will discuss it carefully and in detail in the coming days and weeks – with the poorest of this society. I'll stay there. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, poor that they don't have to pay any more taxes!]] Indebtedness: Today we have heard the word debt so often, I can't hear it at all. We are going back to a debate that we also had in the early 2000s when we discussed the question of the zero deficit. We had a minister, that was Minister Grasser, who reached a zero deficit with many tricks at the time, which has now become a deficit. Don't worry about it! We have this debate again, and I wonder what we have to do with this debate, because neither the European budgetary rules provide for a zero deficit, in the sense of 0.0% of the gross domestic product, nor is it economically necessary. If we are pursuing a zero deficit policy, that is to say, we are not entering into new debt, and we are putting this objective in the foreground of policy and making it the top target of policy, this means that we are doing nothing more than abandoning the central design element of budgetary policy. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] This is also seen in this budget: In fact, it is a matter of defining, and all this would be decisive, objectives and considering them: Do I need debt now or do I need no debt? – That is what we do not do, but the main goal is not to make new debts, and that is all subordinated. This is the result of the lower income earners coming under the wheels. Debts are a priority, ladies and gentlemen, neither good nor bad. It depends solely on what a state uses the money for when it accepts debt. The second is the question of how does he finance that, to whom does the state take away how much over taxes. These are all the crucial questions. Moreover, it is the objectives that we should discuss, but there is no word about them. I read the strategy report last night. This is actually the report that should provide information on the Federal Government's strategy. A pitiful document, I must tell you, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] It does not discuss these objectives, nor is it discussed how we in our state – and we are a state – can discuss and implement these goals with the countries. What interests people in this country is not the question of how many debts this state makes. People in this state – and on that they have a right – want a good life, and a good life for all must be the ultimate goal of state politics. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Previously, the comparison with the private budget was made here at this speaker's desk and said: Save in time, then you're in trouble! It is suggested that the State could be compared to a private household. - He can't do that! The state is quite different, the state has to fulfil public tasks and the state is therefore equipped with other ways of making debt. That's what distinguishes him. It also distinguishes him from a private household that he is not bound by the restriction of his income, but he can renew debt again and again. That which is a burden, these are the interest rates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] But now I do not want to talk about a policy of indebtedness. No, I don't! But I also want to say that debt is not a malheur. If, as Mr Strolz said, I should only put the money aside in good times and invest in bad times, then our hospitals would probably still be housed in barracks today, then we would not have a well-developed rail network and not a well-developed road system and so on. The debts of the past have led Austria to become the rich country it is today. Even if we make debts, that doesn't mean we can't reduce our debt ratio. I would like to ask you: If we have a debate on debt, we will lead it on the basis of debt ratios and not on the basis of nominal increases in debt. No economist would ever do that, it doesn't make sense. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The debt ratio always has a counter and a denominator – the debt is in the counter, and the gross domestic product is in the denominator. If gross domestic product grows more than debt, the debt ratio decreases. So even with a certain amount of indebtedness, the debt ratio is constantly falling to 60% of the gross domestic product under the premise I have mentioned. We need to pay attention to these premise, not anymore. This is a very simple mathematical context, because you don't have to think much. Now, whether we need this debt brake in the Constitution: No, we don't need this nonsense. [[Congratulations with list Pilz and SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we have already secured a debt brake in our legal system, Mr Strolz and ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and of ÖVP: In 2011 it was decided, § 2 para. 4 Federal Budget Act 2013. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] There it says: ‘The budget of the federal government shall be offset in principle in accordance with the law of the European Union.’ At that time, the legislator also normized, which means “compensating in principle”: That is to say, for the federal government, a structural deficit of 0.35% of GDP – and not anymore. [[Abg. Stroll: Let's stick to it!]] That's it! We don't need that. [[Abg. Stroll: Stops... no one on it!]] Even in the European Union's fiscal policy this is not required. [[Abg. Strolz: Mr Rossmann, there's no one to hold on to it! Self-binding in the constitutional rank...!]] – Yes believe You are all serious, Mr Strolz – and I am going to come to terms with self-binding – that only because a debt brake has been fixed in the Constitution, the commitment of politics is such that it will say: Yes, because we have now incorporated this into the Constitution, I stick to it!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Stroll:...understanding...! – As a Member of Parliament, of course!]] Mr Strolz, there are so many constitutional provisions that have remained dead, including those relating to the Federal Budget Act. I'm just calling you one of these: Let us think, for example, of gender budgeting, gender equality and gender equality – a principle that we set in the Constitution in 2009. [[Consistency with the list of mushrooms]] This principle, Mr Strolz, is not being lived because there is no political commitment to it. [[Abg. Stroll:... Confession!]] It's that simple, that's how it looks. [[Abg. Stroll: You can't seriously mean that!]] You are all serious about anchoring this in the Constitution, and believe that politics will follow you then, just because that is in the Constitution? - Excuse me, but I think that's a lot of naïve. We don't need that. That's economic nonsense. [[President Sobotka shall take over the chairmanship.]] When Germany introduced its debt brake into the Constitution in 2009, there were 200 reasonable economists who said: Let this nonsense remain! Germany has not left it. [[Abg. Stroll: Attention! You stumble over your own argument!]] The person who wanted to anchor the debt brake in the Constitution in Germany now distances himself from it. And exactly this debt brake according to the German model, Mr. Finanzminister – you said it today – you want to anchor it in the Constitution. Please leave this, and please do not come back, above all, with a draft, as on the 12.10. last year! That is because we discussed this – it was introduced by FPÖ and ÖVP – but thanks to God, there was no constitutional majority. The then-design of the debt brake was such a brush that everyone who understands a little of budgetary law really had to generate for it. That was such a husk-fusch-design, really inconceivable! - I can't repeat that often enough. Look at this! Let this draft you want to bring in check through the house! It is even better, however, that you do not want to present such a draft here in this House at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10380	Mrs National Councillor Karin has been reported as a double farmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10402	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen. I have to say a few words to my previous speaker: Bruno, it's not like we don't finance the state with a debt brake anymore, but it's about putting something aside in good times, just like now, having the highest revenue of all time, so that you can invest in bad times. By the way, you might also need to look at our design of the debt brake, which goes in the direction – Swiss model – that you can also have a deficit in these times. The model of saving the dead is not applicable. The Republic has been in debt over the last decades. In 2017 – we have different figures on the table – we spent more than EUR 3.7 billion on the table. Today we spend more money than we take. In 2018, Mr. Finanzminister, you expect a Maastricht balance of minus 0.4 percent and 2019 with 0 percent. They said – and some previous speakers have already said this today – then we have our zero deficit, then we have done it. According to your demands, perhaps, but you also need to look at the plan for the future and the counter-financing measures. It is, of course, already true that these measures are largely financed by the cold progression. Their abolition was promised in the election campaign of ÖVP and FPÖ – now they are taken for counter-financing! Back to budget: So you say you're making a zero deficit next year. So that is, if I now come back to the house mind on this milkmaid bill or – how did we call it? – Mr. Wöginger, I think, called housemaid, has it come back to the house mind, then I have to say: The highest revenue we will ever have in this Republic, we all spend again! - That's the zero deficit you're selling us here. To knock on our shoulders, we find ourselves a little bold. It is legitimate, Minister of Finance – I very much appreciate you too, I agree with Matthias Strolz – that you sell your budget as best you can, but it is our job as an opposition and as a control force to look at the other sides of the budget, and we also take a different budgetary approach. Mr Wöginger, I think, said – it was the house mind, yes – there will be a surplus. From our point of view, we need to look at the structural deficit, which is simply more meaningful. By the way, this also makes Germany in the debt brake – which is also based on the structural deficit – but you know that for sure. But if you look at that, then next year and next year there's a little bit of fat in front of it. Why? – Because in the structural budget the one-time effects and the economy are calculated. That's the big difference. That is why, in our view, it is the only decisive thing that should be used – and not the Maastricht criteria. They currently have a historic opportunity to transform the basic structure of expenditure and revenue in a sustainable way. This is not in one step, it is clear to us, but as far as we have seen it so far, you do not take any steps at all. In order to lead Austria into a fiscally successful future, it is necessary to tackle structural reforms and lighthouse projects. That is, you all know that, pensions, federalism, financial compensation, but there is nothing in this budget at the moment. The investments in the future, which have been so praised and so emphasized this morning, are too little for us. In the field of education, only one hole is stopped, it is not really financed anymore; Climate protection does not occur; there are no concrete plans for digitisation. These are really things you need to look at, but they don't really happen in the household. The household anxiously manages the present, he does not boldly enter the future, he serves here and there a little clientele. From our point of view, this is a budget-political Biedermeier, free from inspiration and free from far-sighted views. That is why we call for the debt brake, Bruno and my fellow Members, because we simply believe that right now is the right time to do so. You can of course argue: Is it the Swiss model?, you can of course say it's the German model that you're talking about in Austria. I think there are a lot of options in between. But it is also important that there is an expenditure brake. The Swedish have already done this. It is also about Karl-Heinz Grasser being mentioned that, when it comes to rising expenditure, the government does not simply raise the tax rate up again. This is also something you need to pay attention to in this sense, so that you do not disappear more or less like ex-Finanzminister Grasser's zero budget. Constitutional rank is important. We take the Constitution seriously, and we believe that it makes sense to have that in the constitutional order. The objective must be a balanced budget over an economic phase, and it needs close and clear fiscal rules to implement things well. I would just like to say the following: I have a lot of points, but the most important one is perhaps that there should be effective sanctions and correction mechanisms so that the debt brake can be implemented. This means that in the event of non-compliance, both the relevant politicians must be held responsible and the local authorities can be forced to correct. In other words, in a proper design, a debt brake is a constitutional instrument that can work on a sustainable basis and create real generation-righteousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10472	Mr Peter Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10507	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister of Finance! As Salzburger, I have to say something from Salzburger to Salzburger first: Dear Sepp Schellhorn, the new role with suit and tie, so state-bearing, fits you less. The revolution image with the free speech is better cut to your body. Mr Strolz, I would like to inform you of the following: The heads of state do good work. By always devaluating them, you do not do yourself a favor. I am sure that my head of state in Salzburg, Wilfried Haslauer, will be re-elected due to his excellent achievements, Mr Strolz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Löger has already done everything on the subject of debt brakes. I think it is a good moment today to re-open a new chapter in this budgetary policy. Our Minister of Finance has just presented with his double budget a budgetary policy of change. I say it quite self-critically: Time has come for us to leave the old paths of debt policy and break into new shores. Surplus is our new goal, and we will achieve this in 2019, ladies and gentlemen. I am very glad that a budget has been presented to us today, bringing the state into a new future – in a good new time without new debts. We do nothing but anyone and anyone who carries responsibility at home in his or her own household or in his or her company. [[Abg. Jarolim:... past!]] We just don't spend more than we take, and that's good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It was necessary to find a new coalition partner, with which it is possible to go this way, and I thank him for that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We end the great redistribution of debt and just start into a new future, into a good new time. Now I have to say: It is particularly remarkable that just the NEOS, who have always criticized that we spend too much, criticize this budget. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] It seems to me that you are simply criticizing this surplus budget for criticism. As Mr Schellhorn spoke of the “Gletscherliga”, I would like to make a comparison from the Bundesliga. The comparison with FC Salzburg's Sunday game against Austria Vienna is pressing. Dear Wolfgang Katzian, please forgive me this comparison, but the NEOS seem to be like Austria Vienna: completely motivated, but a little overwhelmed. Now I have to say quite honestly, on our side there is a game-setting finance minister, and the successes show it quite clearly: We are consistently decommissioning debts. Our goal for 2019 is a surplus of half a billion euros – one to zero for holes. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We promote performance and want to provide incentives for performance – two to zero for holes. [[Abg. Stroll: Who's he playing against?]] We relieve the citizens: Last year we had a tax rate of 41.9 percent, we want to reduce these successively to 40 percent by 2022 – three to zero for holes. [[Call at the SPÖ:... is there an opponent?]] We save in the system, but not in the future, we spend more money on education and research, digitization and security – four too zero for holes. We use the good economy – a thank you to the more than 400 000 entrepreneurs, the businesses and their employees for this generated growth. We are on a good way to a good new time – five to zero for holes. [[Abg. Stroll: Lottozettel is full!]] We are committed to Europe, and this is very important, because Europe is indispensable to us – six to zero for lies. Neos' urgent request, an owner through Schellhorn/Strolz – seven to zero. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I can sum up the result in a game critique: The attacks were a little unorganized and went empty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Minister of Finance Löger has proved to be absolutely certain and has decided for himself both half-times – 2018 and 2019 – with courageous and targeted advances. The difference from Sunday: Austria Vienna has lost only five to zero! [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Stroll.]] I have also met many people in recent days who welcome the end of debt policy and finally implement what we promised before the election. We have promised to relieve those who pay taxes. We do this with the family bonus, we do so with the reduction of the unemployment contribution for the workers and we do so with the reduction of the VAT rate for hotel businesses – promised, kept! [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] This too is a clear sign of a new start into a new future. I can only recommend: Please cooperate instead of infirmity! Support us at the start into this new future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10650	Mrs Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10675	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would like to dedicate myself to the successful past of Austria over the last 65 years, because I really have the feeling that many of you are suffering something from memory trauma. If we look into the history books, if we keep in mind how Austria stands today, this is also the merit of the past good policy and investment in our country. We are good at Europe's position, we are good at unemployment at the moment, alive by the economy, but that is also a reason. Forget Please do not ask that we have jointly adopted a tax reform, which has naturally caused people to spend more and that this has boosted the economy, which has contributed, among other things, to the fact that we now have a high economic level! This collective amnesty makes me quite unscrupulous, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It was not only a crisis that was settled together in the past, but several. It is indeed true that in 2008 we were flooded by an incredibly violent, global financial and economic crisis that we were able to overcome. We were able to adopt a tax reform and overcome the hypo-alpe-Adria crisis caused by the liberals in Carinthia. [[Eh-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] And how do we stand today? – Even without a budget speech we know today, ladies and gentlemen, that we have automatically approached the zero deficit. This is not the merit of 93 days – forgive me, Minister of Finance – of your work, but it has all worked out in this country, and we should also look at it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The public hand invests in infrastructure, in schools, in kindergartens, in the health system, so that the rescue system works, that the police work, that fire brigade works, and so on – I could list a lot now – although in the years 2000 to 2006 massive cuts have taken place in the public service, and we now insist that we need more security officials that we need teachers again in our schools through the then farewell of many 55-year-old educators with Golden Handshake. Especially in these areas, e.g. in the education sector, you now save, put on the spasm again! I cannot understand this because the investment of the past decades has meant that people have received free access to schools, to universities, to school books, that better education has come to them, and that this has enabled them to bring more into the economy as a whole. That is exactly what I see or see my group in danger when we say that we measure by two measures. Sometime in the 1940s, ten rich old men moved back to the Swiss mountains and invented the debt brake. No, they have prepared and invented the neoliberal economic system there: Profit of the individual, profit of companies from common good. – This is not our model, ladies and gentlemen, that is the model that the electorate – Mr colleague – will not vote for your electorate in the future, on the contrary, because you have promised quite different things in the election campaign, which you are not doing now. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hafenecker]] If I read, Mr Finanzminister, and that really touched me very unpleasantly, that you say for older unemployed people cannot be invested in tax money-financed two-year seem jobs, then that is, I must say, a blow into the face so many more that have now got work through this action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And who today morning - - – That stands in there! [[Abg. Singer: That's a hell of a job!]] [[keeping a copy of the manuscript of the budget speech in height]] [[Abg. Singer: We paid it with tax money and continue to pay it!]] – Unfathomable ignorance from your side does not change the fact that many people have enjoyed getting work now. Whoever heard the “Morgenjournal” today also heard an interview with a few older people who had a collective taxi system somewhere in the country – the importance of the rural area is always emphasized; it is really important and should not be diluted – with whom the opportunity to go shopping to go to the pharmacy. And the 61-year-old, previously unemployed taxi driver who did this, will have no work in the future. These are not a sham job, but that was the last straw for people standing just before the pension and thus having received a last chance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, I must accuse you of the fact that: They continue to separate the line between the poor and the rich and that we will be very difficult to get out of this alms policy, into which you have maneuvered us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10792	Mr Hermann Brückl is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10822	Mr President. High house! Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Class struggle is under way again, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Good luck!]] Class struggle is announced again, but we are not available for that. I think I could mention it again and again on every day of the session: We are not available for class struggle and not for redistribution! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jarolim.]] That's easy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] To reward service providers is policy, as ÖVP and FPÖ want them and as they are done. On the topic of debt brakes: As financial spokesperson of the FPÖ and also as the Upper Austrian, I am pleased to be able to say here that we have had the so-called Stability Assurance Act in Upper Austria since autumn 2017. This is nothing but a debt brake agreed in the national legislation, which is designed to create room for new reforms, to provide room for investment in order to increase competitiveness. And this debt brake is not a self-interest, but it offers opportunities to finance housing, education, digitization, security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] It's a good thing we've got it. Now I ask you, dear Social Democrats: Who rules in Upper Austria, who is able to do so? – This is a government of ÖVP and the Freedom Party. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] This is also the reason why the government program between the People's Party and the Freedom Party held to install these debt brakes also at the federal level. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Children are logged out because parents cannot afford it! That's terrible!]] I know it hurts you, it hurts you heartily that you have been chosen, I have already said it today, but one thing is also certain: The cooperation between the People's Party and the Freedom Party works very well. They won't go in here, you won't succeed, not at the best of will! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Move it.]] On the NEOS, Mr Schellhorn, Mr Klubobmann Strolz: Yes, the issue is right, as we know, we do not put it in agreement, but what I do not understand, these are the attacks on the Federal Government in this urgent request, the attacks on the Minister of State, who today presented a budget that leads to the turnaround of the trend in this country. This budget – and we have heard it many times today – is a forward-looking budget. After 64 years, surpluses will finally be produced in 2019. After 64 years! And this is the right way, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Therefore, these attacks are completely out of place, they go into emptiness, they go completely empty. If you had given this speech, Mr Schellhorn, here a year ago, yes, then we could have understood it, then it would have been logical, but today it is no longer because there is a budget that is going to be the right way and it will go. We're doing fine. This federal government is doing well. We've been presented a red and white-red budget today. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Klubobmann Wöginger meant the inlay, the speech of Klubobmann Strolz was cabaretistic. I felt that they were rather playful, but you are well-known for this, Mr President; that is what you are doing. You also very well, we also appreciate you in this house. However, I would like to add that a request, a urgent request like this one, is nothing but a quick shot again. [[Abg. Scherak: application!]] It takes pre-work to do that. The same goes for the cold progression. We discussed the cold progression almost a month ago. Yeah, it's good, but it's also in the government program and there's something agreed. We'll check it out. However, conditions for this need to be created. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] That's it. These are nothing but quick shots, and in this context: Quick shots were in the Wild West, and if there is a re-filming, I recommend that you apply for the main role in the film “My Name is Nobody”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10939	Mrs Daniela Holzinger-Vogtenhuber is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e10960	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear fellow citizens! Colleague Brückl reports live from Upper Austria: The debt brake works. – Yes, she works very well, she also arrives with every family, but unfortunately in the negative sense. We currently have in Upper Austria the situation that there are group closures that children no longer receive afternoon care because the country of Upper Austria has decided to press on the debt brake and press it directly into each individual family. [[Abg. Neubauer: Do you know what the Social Land Council has done?! Shame!]] [[Congratulations on the Pilz list and on the SPÖ Members.]] They say it's not a class struggle. – It’s a class struggle, it’s one, but it’s distributed from bottom to top. This is what is currently happening with the family bonus and with the current family policy. [[Abg. Hafenecker: You don't even remember five years in which party you are!]] If the lower income triple pays the family relief for very good-earners, for managers, and, and, and by the normal consumption taxes, it is very likely that this is a class struggle that is carried out by you and in which many, many people who are low-earners, will pay very much on it. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's what your former comrades did!]] On this request by NEOS: The idea behind this request for the introduction of a constitutional debt brake is superficially nice at first sight, I have to say. If the milk girl lives constantly over its conditions, spends more money than it takes by the daily sale of milk, then the bill will not go out at some point. - Correct, yes, that's right. But as far as the State is concerned, this is not acceptable and feasible in this simplified form. The question is whether we are thinking of the problem of high government expenditure or too low government revenue – we are thinking, for example, of the tax-saving treatment of super-rich entrepreneurs who do not pay their taxes here, of tax gifts to large-scale industry made by the current government, of cut-offs, and, and, and; [[Congratulation with the list of mushrooms and with representatives of the SPÖ]] billions of tax gifts to large entrepreneurs can be solved by a forced law and a debt brake. In the application, you propose the Swiss model, which, according to a calculation key, allows small extra expenditure in economically meagre times and provides for less expenditure in economic uptime, so that it would be possible to generate budget surpluses, in this way in order to clean up and achieve a balanced economic cycle. Everything beautiful and good, but what does that mean in everyday politics? – First of all: We are totally restricting this Parliament's scope for action, future parliaments and future governments, without being able to sufficiently estimate from today's point of view what challenges will be in store for us. Another point: They write in the reasoning of your request and thus already assume in this reason that the population in here and now would live on their daily conditions, fueled by the politics of the Federal Government, is written in it, but that the population in here and now would live on their conditions. – Show me this group! Show me the population that lives over their conditions! I would just like to remind you of the discussion we have with regard to single parents and maintenance. We hear from the Federal Government, there's no money there. Well, now it is not possible to bring the ruling claims to fathers, it cannot be invested even more money from the state. What about a debt brake? Or is this then taken as an excuse to be able to make further social cuts? [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] We're talking about single-time teachers, we're talking about people who are looking for long-term jobs, about older people who are hard to get back into the job, we're talking about part-time workers who are already hard to get over the rounds. And this finding, however, goes deep into the middle class. I ask you: Let's look out of this bubble! Show me these people who are supposed to affect this particular phenomenon that they are living over their conditions! 95 percent of the people in Austria pursue employment, care for their family, care for relatives, are volunteered in an association, and, and, and,. Of these people, that's certainly no one. If you now want to introduce this debt brake, as Minister Löger, who is not present now, has mentioned, you will provide future governments, that is, neoliberal governments – possibly you belong to such a one yourself at some point – exactly that argument to cut right into this social area. And you will also be looking at future governments that have a social orientation through this policy – and this is also reflected in your request inside – private care industries and masochistically perceived threats of punishment. So I don't feel this will to punish myself. I would like politicians and politicians, I would like to make representatives of the people who make a policy that is responsible in this House – and this goes without a debt brake in the constitutional rank. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] What can't be achieved by this debt brake is to finally move the top 5 percent to a more just contribution to the state. This is basically not possible because of such requests – like this brake application, I have to say – because evil is always the state at the end of the day. One thing to say is: If you want to force politics into a forced corset, you have, I think, long passed by democracy. That you assume that this Parliament as a assembly of representatives of the people is in any case unable to make reasonable and sustainable policies, which are heard by the ÖVP, the FPÖ, the NEOS, is really shocking. [[Abg. Scherak: But it is!]] Your request is black and white, because we are unable to carry out our policy responsibly. [[Consistency with the list of mushrooms]] .. I shall, of course, give you a point of order: One can ask in many moments and in fact doubt whether decisions by the government or the current majority in Parliament express these reasonable and democratic policies in the sense of people. I'm sure I'll give you the right thing, too. That is precisely why I reject this anchoring of the debt brake, but we want to do so and we have therefore also tabled a request on this subject; of course, it is not the same, but it needs a proper discussion in the Committee on Social Justice as a state target for this request. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Therefore, we have tabled a request for a Constitutional Provision, which is a state objective, because we want to work to ensure that there is a comprehensive promotion of the greatest possible degree of social justice. If all citizens can contribute to the welfare of the state and participate in the welfare of the state according to their needs, social justice is also guaranteed. And this is of great importance to all of our future, since the state must not be based on the fact that economic and brake fetishism is being pursued, but on the common path, we do not lose anyone. All levels of population according to their possibilities and needs, thus anchoring social peace as the basis and basis of Austrian success history, should be our goal. I should like to ask all of you to have a favourable treatment in committee. Let us show that the Austrian Parliament can make good policy without force and without a criminal threat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11082	Mr Douglas Hoyos-Trauttmannsdorff is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11103	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! And especially do young students who are at the top of the gallery and those who look at home! What we have experienced here in the last few minutes is a repulsion of various topics that we have discussed over and over the last few months, but which are not really the core of what this is all about. [[Abg. Little: The core is not here today!]] It's about the next generation, it's about the young people and the opportunities we want in this country, because every drop of debt we're accumulating here, every drop that makes our debt mountain higher, is an annihilation of opportunities for the next generation. We have all experienced in the last months of the election campaign how hard it can be for us personally. We have all suffered physically from this campaign, but our budget has also suffered, more precisely, the debt mountain has of course continued to grow. We have again distributed a bunch of new electoral sugars, no matter if this was the 20 000 action, the hundred and so on. I do not want to discuss these points in terms of content, but what remains at the end is that we as a young generation are counting on it, as all these are debts that will remain for us. Nobody's thinking about it either. I do not feel that in the debates then, especially of the two old government parties, the subject was: How do we deal with the next generation?, big there was. It was just about: Now we decide quickly, because this is good in the public, that's a beautiful picture! – This is not the policy we want to stand for. This is retro-politics, is absolutely unexy and should not continue for the next generations. We can also look at the whole thing exactly in numbers. If a person is born in Austria today, he has 39,000 euros of debt, a debt backpack with 39,000 euros! Mr Minister, if your parents had left you 39 000 euros as a debt backpack, you would have looked at them wrong – and absolutely right. Each of us would look his parents wrong because 39,000 euros are a lot of money. And on the one hand, this debt backpack is not responsible to the next generation, it's unexy, and it's exactly this retro-policy that needs to stop. That's why I demand It's on: Have the courage to change that now! Have the courage and take a heart there and say for the next generation: Yeah, we're not waiting anymore, we're doing it! Anyone who has this amount to be abstract, look at government debt.at! On government debt.at you can watch live how our debt increases as our government debt gets higher from second to second. It's really ticking, ticking. At the end of the day, another 3.5 million euros in new debt has been added. This is simply a fact that we cannot deny. That's why, Minister, remember: It's not just about your term of office, it goes beyond that. We need the debt brake in the long term, and now is the right time to use it. Take a heart, have courage and agree with us to a request so that we can finally demand this debt brake! You needed a few quotes in your budget speech today, I also want to end with one. This is the guiding principle that my parents have given me and which I also try to implement again and again in my political life, which we need in everyday work and so on: What you can get today don't move it to tomorrow. Get a heart! Have courage and move forward and finally let us decide together on this debt brake!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11140	The next item is Mrs Angelikack. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11161	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Strolz, when I read your press release on this urgent matter yesterday morning, I first of all received your speech on the occasion of the visit of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: We don't remember anyone else!]] [[Abg. Stroll makes the thumb-high sign.]] You've confused our guest at the time, he sometimes thought that the translation service had fallen out; you said you'd like to stand on the balcony, look into the universe, and think you're just a little drop of time. [[Abg. Stroll: Only speech I noticed!]] [[Abg. Swallow: Little guy! Little!]] - Yeah, probably. You obviously had such a day in the formulation of this press release, because before the speech of the Minister of Finance and before we even got this budget information, you already gave the press the accusations that you did not fit everything in this budget, that is all too little. [[Abg. Stroll: Was presented the next days!]] There is, for example, inside: There is not much in research and education. - But that's exactly where it's being properly invested. But without budget documents making such press releases: That's just where the universe can't have told you wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] But I'm surprised at your new verbal style. You have taken a positive step, but you have left this road somehow towards Sackgasse, and this dead end was on a very low level at these explanations that you have given you. [[Abg. Stroll: You just said we were funny! You have to make up your mind!]] [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] On the other hand, we were elected in October for our programme: Strengthen location, create security and reduce taxes, and we also consistently implement this double budget. Yes, we use the high economy to reduce debt. Mr Rossmann, we are not doing this just for fun, but you know exactly how high our interest rates are for these debts. We are making savings in terms of administration and funding, and it was Mr Schellhorn who has always said: Get away with the promotions, go to tax reliefs! We will achieve a budget surplus of half a billion euros. In addition, however, we are preparing reforms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Reforms such as the tax-structural reform and many others will be implemented during this legislative period. We also invest in future topics, education, research, but not only that, but also in social matters, in care, because we are well aware of our social responsibility for this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Opportunities instead of debt, a country of opportunities, that must be our concern. And I invite – Mr. Brückl has already mentioned it – to keep up with our above Austrian motto and to get everyone to go this new, good, successful way with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11287	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11308	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, briefly to your request: The question of debt or deficits; or Surplus in the State budget is one which depends on economic development and not on constitutional provisions. Your urgent request to establish a debt brake in the constitutional order, still speculated with criteria, yet to do with rules that are technically and closely defined, as you have formulated, that does not work in practice. [[Abg. Stroll: Switzerland! Germany!]] I can only agree with all the others here who will vote against this motion for a resolution, simply because a budget needs a certain degree of flexibility – a flexibility that makes it possible for policy to act in difficult times. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has done this very well: We are not in favour of crises, we are not preoccupied with environmental disasters, we are not in favour of a head of state who falls into debt to a country where the Republic has to jump in, how we have been allowed to experience it, and therefore it is important that a budget remains flexible and that politics can shape it. [[Abg. Hafenecker: As in Salzburg, yes?]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe, however, that we all agree that we can reduce debt in good times – and indeed, the economy is good, the economy will remain good – the question is how we do this, Mr. Finanzminister. Only three examples: To the families: Why is not every child treated the same way in Austria as regards discharge? Why do children in low-income families receive alms of 250 euros a year – a year later – and why do other families receive a multiple of 250 euros? It also raises the question of why you can cut down the bridges with which you come to pension from the job. I am thinking of the age part-time and your plan to reset the deadline for two years, or the idea of abolishing the block variant. This was exactly the bridge with which agreements between workers and businesses were reached in the economy and the companies, with a co-financing of the public sector, so that these older people could get into retirement seamlessly from the job and not run the risk of being relocated to the AMS. The last point is the labour market. Mr. Finanzminister, why do we also break down the bridges, especially for older jobseekers, that they get a chance to come to a job again? Why Delete Do you have these employment programmes? They really don't save in the system, but they save people, and this hurts me very much in these three examples as social speakers, because I really don't understand, and I want you to take different measures for children, so that they don't have a chance to reach their pension. This is complemented by the fact that you want to open the labour market in addition to measures that we would not have approved in government responsibility. This leads me to really appeal to you, Minister of Finance: I was actually happy when you spent the whole day in the government declaration, that was in December, just before Christmas. They were the only minister who spent the whole day here listening to everything. I thought that now we have a finance minister who listens to all positions, which is really important, which the different political representatives have on different points. But the fact that a budget comes out where it really needs to be questioned, where the social conscience is, so to speak, a chain between the people involved in low incomes and those of higher incomes hurts me as a social speaker. Please save honestly in the system! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Save Please be honest in the system, but don't save on people!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11370	The next item is Mr. National Councillor Wolfgang Klinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11396	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. All listeners and spectators! Mr. Schellhorn, you have started the justification of your request to present a journey into the past. You have said that 60 percent more debts were made from 2008 to the present – yes, of course – but then you have come to the point: no structural reforms; and in the last part of your speech, it would have become quite exciting, you have actually remained guilty of everything. You didn't say anything about how the journey should work, where the trip should go and how we should do it. I have compiled an economic programme in 2016, in short, colorful and clear, so much so a principle debate about what to do in this state, and who could possibly be a partner for us for it. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] This was written in 2016, and it says, among other things: to secure the future of our population, our families. Let's do that? - Of course we do. Then stands as second, very important: creating a slim state, fewer plan posts that orientate plan posts to the extent of the best. Let's do that? – Of course we do, not every plan post will be re-occupied. Energy supply – a very essential thing, the expansion of hydropower is very important in this state; strengthen the self-responsibilities of the unself-employed; and then quite essential points in a structural reform: Summary of social security institutions. Let's do that? – That's what we do. Or: uniform and fair pensions for all – we also assume that is a very essential step. Research through the funding – it is already being started. And then you say so much that it is not done here what leads to appropriate structural reforms. – No, we are on the best way, and the guaranteers are our capable finance minister and our excellent State Secretary. I have been an individual entrepreneur since 1984, in difficult industries, and I say quite honestly, there have often been highs and lows, but what you must not neglect is the curve, the development of debt. They must be linked to the performance of the plant, and I will give you the right to do so again. I am convinced that in future we will address this in this coalition in terms of business economics. It will be very essential – and we invite you to do so – that we also implement those points that have not been implemented to this extent with your support. There are certainly still many constitutional provisions that will be necessary so that it actually progresses in this state. Now you can talk about a constitution with a inserted debt brake, yes, but it is important that you can actually achieve the objectives you are pursuing. Dear colleague Strolz, you said: We're so great on the road because we have two wings. – If you want to fly properly, however, you need a guiding piece and a row of high altitudes, and above all, the flaps so that you can brake when it goes down too quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11440	Mrs Irmgard Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11466	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it really is a witness of poverty – I have to give some of my previous speakers a right – that we have to demand such a thing as a debt brake in the Constitution. It should be perfectly clear that politicians and politicians have the responsibility not to charge future generations. What doesn't mean by a fee? – This means that debt will not be incurred today to finance expenditure that is only effective now and does not benefit future generations, such as investment in education, investment in infrastructure. Actually, one should not need such a thing as a debt brake in the constitutional rank, and it is also a really paradoxical situation: We live in a time when we hear again and again how important it is for people that their children and children also have a good life, and at the same time – we have heard it several times today – a debt backpack is being hung over to each new-born person and there is nothing to do with a policy being made and politicians who are being elected to make debts and opposed to anchoring a debt brake in the constitutional rank. That this is necessary has shown today's discussion. For if you want social justice – and that must be a concern of all of us – then we must face an overwhelming debt of the state. Look for Greece: Who first hit the sovereign debt crisis there? – The minimum pensioners, the poor, the socially weak. That is to say, the state that owes itself is also at risk of social systems. Today, it has also been asked why politicians should impose themselves on their policy chains in the Constitution. – My answer to this question is: Is it better for international donors to define the boundaries of national policies if they indicate what is still to be done in a country and what cannot be done? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Therefore, I believe it is necessary, especially for the formation of awareness in our country, that we anchor such a debt brake in the Constitution, because of our responsibility towards future generations and also towards our state and our community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11512	Mrs Angela Baumgartner is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11537	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer once again to the important points in our budget. We start into a new future by making it unique. We will generate a surplus for the first time since 1954, the budget 2018 and 2019 sets the course to reduce the debt ratio to 62 percent by 2022. At present, it's 80 percent. We are starting reforms and measures to save on the system. We also benefit from the opportunities of modern times, we take advantage of the opportunities of digitization! My colleague Gust Wöginger has already responded to the discharge for families and the lowest earners, and we also start with courage to change. We benefit from the growth, we also use the growth for our agriculture! Our Austrian quality products are required, they are special and appreciated. Appreciation brings value to Austria, and our farmers contribute to it to a large part. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] They ensure the supply of great products that are very qualitative. However, our farmers must also face international competition, which is a major challenge for small farms. There should therefore be no cuts in the funds for the common agricultural policy. Farmers should continue to receive a fee for their services to preserve the cultural landscape. We also start investing in education, universities, research, teachers, further education, adult education and our apprentices. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] We also invest in our security, because the population wants security. We are starting, ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS. You have to remember that it's been 93 days since our government was in office. They see that work has been done and is being worked on in a sustainable way. The debt brake you require is anchored in the government programme. We also tabled a resolution in autumn 2017, which unfortunately did not find a majority. At European level, a mandatory debt brake is currently being negotiated. It would therefore not be very effective, since the rules of the directives are to be applied, because they are to be effective in 2019. As a mother of two adult, studying sons and as a year-old Alone earner and single parent I know about the load that lies on the families. I think the family bonus is really a big step. That is why, and because of the simultaneous investment in education, I have a lot of hope for our youth and a lot of courage for the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] With this budget, we free our young generation from the debt burden of the past decades. Mr. Federal Minister Löger, I would like to thank you very much for that. Mr Strolz, I have raised my sons to very decent young people. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes?- Oh, my God!]] If I imagine my sons mentioning Mr. Finanzminister and the word Hydrant in one sentence, I would really be very sad because I thought I would have done something wrong in my education.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11611	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11632	Mr President. Federal Minister! I am not quite clear from the speeches made by colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ. First of all, it has been explained that we cannot decide on such a debt brake here and today because we or the Minister of Finance are negotiating it at European level. A little follow-up: What we would decide or decide here today is only the text of the resolution, and there is nothing that contradicts anything that may be decided at European level. Then came the excuse that we can't do it like Switzerland. We lead Switzerland in our explanatory statement, and it says literally: “As a model, Switzerland can serve here.” – It is nowhere that Switzerland must serve as an example. So I find this argument a bit annoying. Mr Brückl has still said that we must not stress the Minister for Finance – it was literally so, I think. [[Abg. Brückl: No, I didn't say that!]] Mrs Baumgartner said today that we must wait for us not to hide like this, we must wait for the EU directive to come into effect in 2019. In order to return to our request again, the text of the resolution reads as follows: “This debt brake is expected to enter into force by 2019.” – 2019 is long, 31st. December 2019 would be a possibility. I don't understand how you can be against that. You've got it in the government program, you've all said that. We'll put you there from our side a little bit of a slide so that we can work there for the next one and a half or half years, but you don't want to do it for any inventive reason and tell us something about it: It is not possible because the European Union does not want to do so or simply different. I do not understand why we cannot say quite clearly as a National Council, what we want in concrete terms in relation to a debt brake. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] What you are doing then is to welcome as a national councillor something contained in the government programme, and I think that is somewhat bizarre. It's usually so that you do what the Federal Government has to offer you. But I do not understand why we have to welcome what the government programme says – which you have largely also negotiated – and that means that we should wait for decisions at the European level and then make them according to the requirements. We are, in particular, a party that always takes things and proposals from the European Union seriously and says that we must, of course, move within the legal framework. We would not see it differently – normally it is other political parties that are more interested in European regulations. I believe that the request you have made shows honestly that Parliament should not take itself seriously in this regard. As a National Council, I do not really want to welcome anything contained in the government programme. I would like to have an effective debt brake, and our request would be the first step there. What you're doing is the usual towing. At the end, that will happen, which unfortunately happens so often: Something contained in the government programme will still be in the government programme at the end of the legislative period, but there is no law on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11675	I call Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11709	Mr President. Minister! High house! I find it exciting that we only had to have this acting done about us today because there are elections in Salzburg. Mr Schellhorn comes out here and does something that would not be necessary at all, because if one had made the effort to wait for what is being presented here today, one could have saved it. You have also said that the Minister has begun a lot, but you have not even made the effort to reword your speech – if you had made the effort, you would have to do so because you heard today that we are doing exactly what you want to do here, namely the debt. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] We not only do what you always wanted, namely to save from the state, so to save a diet, but we even ordered the state the ideal figure – not just a small diet as you always wanted. [[Abg. Loacker:... not quite understood!]] We do not just want a balanced budget, no, what we want are surpluses. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] Above all, we want something that you have not even been able to imagine in the past, namely, to go down to the 60 percent government debt. This means that debt is actually reduced in relation to GDP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] We want to do that too, so of course you wonder why you are so uncomplicated here and why you don't praise it. Actually, you have to get out of here and say: Finally, the government is doing what we have been demanding for many years and what has not been implemented because the Socialists were in the boat! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] The problem with the Socialists is that they cannot operate and do not want to do business. There's a good saying: The socialists understand as much of the money as they want it from the others. [[Call the SPÖ: Are you so stupid?]] – That’s exactly the problem with the socialists. [[Call the SPÖ: Care! ...!]] The state is a complex one, many say: The state's making debts, all right. – This is not very transparent, so I give you an example Imagine that in your neighborhood there is a family that deserves little. [[Call the SPÖ: Care!]] There come the socialists and have the glorious idea of picking up income for this family by taking up a credit for this family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Klaus Uwe Feichtinger.]] But it is not the Socialists who pay back, no, but the family with interest and interest interest. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's exactly what you've done for decades: They have received loans that the citizen has to repay with interest and interest rate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This policy has been overcome. The NEOS should actually be glad that we finally overcame this left-wing policy. That's a good thing. Now we can say that we need this whole thing in the constitutional order. But why do we need that? We'll do it. [[Abg. Stroll:... itself requested!]] We don't need a shackle. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The NEOS have said today: The politicians must be tied up. - Is that the case with you? Do your politicians need to be tied up? [[Abg. Stroll: No, you are the ones who bind!]] I can already imagine that some of your colleagues, if you're standing out here sometimes, would like a captivating on their part. I can imagine that very well. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I don't think the population wants tied politicians. I think the population wants politicians who do what is necessary, and there is also a need to create a balanced budget If you say that you want this in the Constitution, it is just as logical. That's what you said today: A debt brake that is not written in the Constitution makes no sense. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, but this is your request! Attention, you're at the FPÖ now! You lost the overview!]] – Well, I'm already on it, Mr Strolz, I'm on it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] A debt brake that is not in the Constitution makes no sense – you said that today. That would be like saying a diet doesn't make sense until you've walled all the food supplies in the basement. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This self-restriction only makes sense – I give you the right, that is why we need it in the Constitution – if we suspect that at some point the left will return to power. Then, of course, we need this in the Constitution, because otherwise we have the problem when the left governs that there is a bad management again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] With this government, however, we have no hurry. [[Abg. Stroll: That can happen, just like in Burgenland!]] We are doing exactly what is necessary: a balanced budget. Above all, we are doing more than you want, Mr Strolz, we are even making surpluses. [[Abg. Stroll: We want to!]] Well, look at that! You wouldn't have thought so! [[Abg. Stroll: Aha!]] [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Mr Strolz wanted a balanced budget, he got surpluses. Nevertheless, he is still unhappy because election is fought, and we have known since the heads that this is the focused uni-intelligence that is going through there. [[Abg. Stroll:... Deficit!]] I can understand that. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] What we need, Mr Strolz, are not tied politicians, but sensible politicians who make the right decisions. That is why we have gone through this and decided to make a balanced budget and then surpluses. This is a social policy, as we imagine it: Then we can also invest the surplus where it really makes sense, and have no debt that has to be repaid with interest and interest interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e11974	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, no one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 172/A(E) by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the establishment of an effective debt brake. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Dr. Mizzig, Angerer, colleagues and colleagues on 'the anchoring of the debt brakes in the Constitution'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 4) [[17:13:07]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12028	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 10 to 12. Mr Lopatka is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give him the word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12052	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be back to the agenda. Yesterday, we had two reports worldwide, which were hardly noticed in Austria, although they are of great scope – also for our country. The Managing Director of the World Bank Kristalina Georgiewa said that in 2050 there will be 140 million refugees worldwide, 86 million from the sub-Saharan region alone. The second report: In 2050, 5.7 billion people will not be able to dispute their water budget, so they will suffer from water shortage. That's 9,8 billion people in every second on this planet. In addition, it was reported yesterday that the Chinese President Xi Jinping, now elected at his lifetime, has declared: “We are determined to fight the bloody battle” – bloody fight! – “to fight against our enemies.” These are three non-significant reports that show how dangerous we are actually on the road worldwide – on the one hand climate change, the lack of resources and water, which is hardly noticed, on the other hand, progressive dictatorial developments when you think about China. Of course, statements such as those of the U.S. President, who meant in February that he would develop small nuclear bombs with comparatively low explosive power in order to be able to use them. Yesterday he received a visit from Mohammed bin Salman, the new strong man of Saudi Arabia, who recently explained that if the Iran is developing nuclear bombs, doing everything to ensure that Saudi Arabia is equipped with these weapons as soon as possible – as he has formulated it. The examples I have given show the importance of the initiative and the decision that we will take together today, namely to do everything we can to counter the nuclear danger. Yes, we are quite weak in power politics, but even if we are quite weak, we are all the more required to make every effort to do what we can. Austria has a good tradition in this area, on the one hand, as regards the peaceful use of nuclear power, but, on the other hand, of course, as far as our use is concerned, it also has a ban on nuclear weapons. I am very glad that we had unanimity in this respect, both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and today in the drafting of a joint motion for a resolution - which I am allowed to address briefly at the end - to show unanimity. It is important that we do not have any political differences on this issue, because even Nato has stated in its strategic approach in § 26, That she wants to create conditions to create a world without nuclear weapons. Of course, we know that nuclear deterrence is a key element of NATO's defence and security policy. It is therefore important that we move forward. 122 States have already adopted this Nuclear Weapons Convention within the UN. We now also want to move forward in the ratification of this Treaty and, in addition, with this motion for a resolution - which I may briefly present as regards the formula of decision - we clearly hold our position. We make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the political groups that we are acting together. Thank you. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] [[17:18]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12184	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Lopatka, Mr Haider, Mr Schieder, Mr Gamon and Mr Zadić, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Stephanie Krisper is now on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12208	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Nine countries have a total of more than 17 000 nuclear weapons, 2,000 of which are common to the US and Russia, in the present situation in which the USA, Russia, North Korea and Iran are in a hot climate. This situation in itself should put us in fear and terror. The vision of a nuclear-free world shares many citizens on the blue planet. While everyone is always talking about taking the fears of the population seriously when it comes to migration, it is rare when it comes to people's fear of war. This Treaty is therefore an important step. Together with 121 other United Nations Member States, Austria has agreed to ratification. To be honest, we are doing more than Austria than other countries, including within the European Union, which owns nuclear weapons. However, we NEOS will naturally agree and would also like to point out that the protection of human life in the world can only be ensured through peace-making and peace-keeping policies. We will therefore continue to work to ensure that Austria finally develops a significant commitment to a common European foreign and security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12244	Mr Roman Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12266	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! On the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, Mr Tschank spoke earlier for the Freedom Party. I shall therefore refer to points 11 and 12 of the agenda. Point 11 is a purely formal act, the conclusion of an agreement with the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, OSCE, on the seat of office in Vienna. This was not governed by a separate agreement, but only by a law relating to the Agreement with the United Nations. Therefore, this formal act is definitely good and necessary. This does not affect the status of the members of this organisation, but also the employees of the OSCE. It will become more effective at Agenda item 12, opposition to Tunisia's accession to the Agreement on Documentary Security. Unfortunately, there is no document security with Tunisia at present. That is why the opposition that the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs had with care at 29. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, against the accession of Tunisia to this Convention, is a very, very important one. We are also in good company, and the Federal Republic of Germany is also opposed to Tunisia's accession, because in view of existing corruption and the relatively low level of income in Tunisia, it is not excluded that documents from Tunisia with incorrect content can also be purchased on sale. A renunciation of the opposition would also mean that public documents issued by the Tunisian authorities with a so-called apostille, i.e. a simplified diplomatic certification, should be recognised as genuine without any further control by the competent Austrian representative authorities or even authorities – although the apostille does not confirm the correctness of the document. We will, of course, agree to this request, because, unfortunately, there is no document security in Tunisia.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12306	The next item is the speech by Mr Harald Türk. I can give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12327	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A world without nuclear weapons is on the one hand a wonderful, human vision, but on the other hand an absolute necessity. Most of the friends A nuclear-free world can be found in Japan – for good reason: Japan has experienced the bitter experience of an atomic attack – a nuclear disaster in its own country, a disaster in humanitarian, social and environmental terms. In addition, the suffering of hundreds of thousands of people who have survived the disaster itself is known in Japan as Hibakusha. In the 1960s, a famous novel was published in Austria, “Sadako wants to live”. Many Austrians were then influenced by this novel about the life and death of a young girl from Hiroshima, who eventually did not win the fight against atomic contamination. However, the world has not become safer over the past 25 years, but on the contrary it has become more unsafe. The nuclear powers modernize their arsenal. At present, we have stored about 15,000 nuclear warheads in the arsenals. The threats are getting stronger. One only needs to see what is happening in the Pacific between North Korea and the USA. It is particularly worrying: The arms race – which we have already believed to be able to act with the mid-range missile agreement here – has strengthened. That is why I believe that this Treaty is a useful one, a direction-setting one. This is fully borne by the SPÖ, because we live in a world with a huge risk. The risk is not just the conscious nuclear war – a false alarm, a false button press, and the entire continent of the earth is depopulated. It is ultimately about the survival of humanity itself. That is why this Treaty is a step in the right direction, together with 122 states. I believe that Austria has a good bridge through its presidency, but also through its involvement in various NATO partnerships and structured cooperations, in order to have a real positive effect on the idea of nuclear-free zones or ultimately a nuclear-free world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12370	Member Josef Lettenbichler has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12391	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery, especially from East Tyrol, from the beautiful Sillian! Welcome to the High House! [[General condolences.]] As one previous speaker mentioned, these agenda items are also about a seat agreement with the OSCE. I'm allowed to pick up a little. Since 1993, the framework conditions of the OSCE have been governed by an Austrian federal law, which refers, inter alia, to the office agreement with the United Nations, taking over the statements contained therein for the OSCE and its employees. According to the current legal situation, there is no serious and clear agreement between Austria and the OSCE. The reason for this is that the CSCE that existed in 1993 at that time was not an international organisation within the meaning of international law and therefore could not conclude an agreement. On the other hand, the OSCE is now subject to international law, and it is high time, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude such a seat agreement. The OSCE, with its central peacekeeping agenda, also carries out tasks such as combating terrorism, cybersecurity and migration. We can be proud that the world's largest security organization with 57 participating states has its headquarters in Vienna. With the present seat agreement, we will be able to strengthen the location of Austria as its headquarters and as a conference location and develop relations with international organisations. It is worth mentioning, I also believe, that the measures in question do not have any financial impact. With the OSCE Presidency last year, we were once again able to present ourselves as a hospitable, world-wide country, as well as to prove the foreign policy and diplomatic skills once again. We are an excellent country of residence. Vienna is also the only United Nations headquarters in the European Union. To that end, the framework conditions must be designed in such a way as to remain the same. A serious headquarters agreement between Austria and the OSCE is therefore to be welcomed. I'm looking for your support. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12436	Member Stefan Schnöll has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12458	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I think one can say in this space that we definitely live in very exciting foreign political times. But they are not only exciting, but above all challenging times. We probably have crisis spots on all continents, even in Europe, when you think of Ukraine. All the more important, I think, is the function of Austria as a bridge builder and mediator. We have a great tradition – we think only of the seats of the various international organizations in Vienna. I believe that this federal government remains true to this tradition by continuing this foreign policy course. This is seen on the travels of Mrs Foreign Minister to South-East Europe and on the journey of the Federal Chancellor to Russia, where it is about the Syria conflict or just about the situation in Ukraine. At this point, Mrs Minister, I should like to congratulate you on a very sympathetic and above all competent position in the committee. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] It has taken a relatively long time, but I think it has not remained open at the end, and that is the decisive one. This brings me to the current item on the agenda. Today we will decide on the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Mr Lopatka has already mentioned it: Anyone who believes that this issue is not brand-current is well advised to read the Trump administration review report, which contains a call for smaller nuclear warheads. I think that should give us some thought, especially to the young generation, because, of course, it reduces the obstacle to the use of these nuclear weapons dramatically. That is why this Treaty, which we are adopting today, is all the more important. Austria has again taken on a pioneering role and a bridge builder function: We will be one of the first to ratify this Treaty. I think we're also in a good direction. On TOP 12, Tunisia: Madam Minister, you will agree with me that Tunisia is one of the few countries or even the only country in the Arab region, the It is likely to develop gradually in a democratic direction. I believe that this should be supported. However, corruption is still a very pressing issue in this country. Tunisia has fallen back to 76th place in the Transparency International Report from 75th place. This is, of course, a dramatic development that you cannot simply look at. The issue is the security of documents, which is by no means guaranteed. The Austrian Embassy in Tunis has also criticized this condition as lacking. That is why, I think, it was urgently necessary for us to act there. It also means that documents with incorrect content may be available for sale, which in turn means that you can buy yourself a study illegally, for example, or that the naturalisation or the exhibition of passports may be illegal. That is why, I believe, it is right for us to decide together today on this statement. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12519	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. I first come to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, in 9 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give the consent to a corresponding sign. The request was adopted unanimously. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lopatka, Mr Haider, Mr Schieder, Mr Gamon and Mr Zadić on 'Cooperation within the framework of the CFSP, Mr PESCO and Mr NATO Partnership'. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who agree to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. (E5) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) on the Headquarters of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, in 12 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask for a sign of approval. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Declaration by the Republic Austria concerning the opposition to the accession of the Tunisian Republic to the Convention for the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification, in 5 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask for a sign of approval. – That is once again unanimous, so this request has been accepted. [[17:34:39]] 13. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment 122/A(E) by Mrs Reinhold Lopatka, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Mag. Roman Haider, Dr. Stephanie Krisper, Dr. Alma Zadić, LL.M., colleagues on humanitarian care and recovery of security for the civilian population in Afrin (52 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12622	We shall now proceed to item 13 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Lopatka. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12650	Mr President. Mrs. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The 30 million Kurds live without their own state in territories of Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Syria. Afrin is a city where the majority of the population has been Kurdish for centuries. It has been different for a few days now, and Turkey has created facts, and around 150,000 Kurds are on the run in the region. Turkey is talking about an exemption from the region. But there are more than 100,000 people on the run. In Turkish newspapers – including English - it was said that people from Afrin can return to their homes in the liberated Afrin. [[The speaker gives up an issue of the newspaper “Daily Sabah”.]] If something deserves the name Fake News, then this representation in Turkish media. The majority of the population is displaced and we speak of a liberation from the population there. Especially dangerous are not only the Kurds. Of course, they are the main sufferers, but the Kurds have so far made sure in this region that even Christians who have lived there for centuries and Jesids have lived together peacefully. Villages around Afrin were also inhabited by Aleviten. No one now knows how these groups, these religious minorities and these peoples will actually do. Part of the population came there when a massacre in the Ottoman Empire was executed in 1915. At that time the Armenians were the main sufferers, but also Kurdish population groups and other religious or ethnic minorities were fled at that time. So far, Turkey has been a country that has taken up refugees and has been most generously supported by the European Union. It is not a bagatoll amount if you get twice 3 billion euros from the European Union. Now Turkey itself is creating a refugee and, on the other hand, there is a great need to relocate in this area. President-in-Office Emine Erdoğan said in a public speech in Istanbul in February that he wanted to bring half a million Syrians to this area, where Kurds had previously been established. This would be a purely resettlement, since no Syrians have fled from Afrin, because the Kurds have just kept this area. It was already a real mistake or an attempt to mislead the public, when Erdoğan, in the run-up to this military invasion, spoke of the fact that the majority in Afrin had already been arab. and only 35 percent Kurds. All facts and data show the opposite. It is only a shame that the European Union is taking this rather silently. It is all the more important that we, as the Austrian Parliament, raise our votes and act unanimously here. I thank all the Members for this support. I am firmly convinced that the fate of the Kurds should not be indifferent to us! I hope that the European Union will also react louder in the future than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12707	Mr Andreas Schieder is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12728	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After what my previous speaker, Mr Lopatka, has just mentioned, I would like to say: It is a human and humanitarian tragedy that we are experiencing. ==References== The Turkish army has been brutally opposed to Afrin and the people there, always with the excuse, it was about the fight against the Kurdish YPG troupe. It was not only against them – even in my opinion this would be a wrong approach – but also against the civilian population. The European Parliament, too, has already condemned this operation of Turkey's olive grove, as it has been euphemistically called. Nevertheless, over 100,000 people have been expelled from the city, but one day alone, over 30,000 people have fled the city of Afrin. Nevertheless, 1 200 civilians were killed on one day, and systematic rapes of women by soldiers have been reported. Mogherini, the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, speaks of a recent dramatic escalation of military activities. That is true, but at the same time so sad in the narrower sense, because there was no reaction. On the contrary! Europe has watched as Turkey not only waged war against a country but has also conquered some of it, just as it was announced. The United Nations too is actually paralyzed by this dramatic spectacle. In the United Nations, any resolution has been prevented by the veto right of the Allies of Turkey. This too must be questioned, namely whether we can see that international law, which has been created precisely for the protection of the civilian population, is actually being deprived of its meaning by blockade policy. In front of all of this, one must also say: I deeply regret that we are always discussing the question of accession to the European Union only in the context of economic and other reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is much more appropriate to talk clearly to the Erdo-yan regime on human rights issues, foreign policy issues relating to human rights violations. At the door to Europe there must not be this approach, this anti-human, brutal and cynical approach. It is therefore important that we decide on this resolution here, because it also expresses that the Austrian National Council is beyond all the party borders. Persecuted states, but has also recognised that the Turkish Government's approach to creating more stability in the region is a false one. On the contrary: There was a need for broad diplomatic activities, including the various Kurdish groups in order to create stability here – stability that not only needs people there but also stability, which would also be in Europe's interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12786	Mrs Nurten Yılmaz is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12804	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lopatka and Mr Colleague In fact, the content of the initiative proposal has been very well explained by the arbitrators, also why he has received the support of all the parties in the house. I would like to make an appeal to you, Mrs. Federal Minister. You know each other in this region. Appeals, proposals for initiative are beautiful and good, but if you do not pursue active peace policy, there will not be satisfaction there either. Especially as long as Europe earns money in this war, it will be very, very difficult to help people there. It is all our task to see to it that they are helped. Unfortunately, because of this war, which is taking place in this region today, whether it is in Afrin or Ghouta or elsewhere, some European countries will become rich that will make Europe rich. And that's very embarrassing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We can decide on proposals every day. It's going to excite us a little morally, but that's what it was. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you – alone will not be able to do so – to work for an active peace policy in this region. We have decided on this request in the Committee on Foreign Affairs exactly one day before the Turkish Foreign Minister has visited you. My request to the committee was to address him precisely to this request, I hope this discussion has taken place. That it has not been useful, we know: Three days later, Afrin was occupied by Turkish soldiers. But an active peace policy is already extremely important. We have played a very important role in this region. I wish that we would do this again: as a peace messenger, as a peace angel. Make the angel of peace for the people there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12853	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. We come to the vote on the resolution on the "humanitarian care and recovery of security for the civilian population in Afrin" attached to the Committee's report 52. I should like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, for a sign of approval. The request was adopted unanimously. (E 6) [[17:46:42]] 14. Point Report by the Foreign Policy Committee on Amendment 135/A(E) by Mrs Claudia Gamon, Mr MSc(WU), on the establishment of an independent expert forum for analytical monitoring of the Brexit process to increase the Federal Government's response speed (53 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12905	We're going to the 14th. Agenda item. Mrs Gamon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12929	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors in front of the TV sets and laptops! We know that the Presidency is about to come. The Brexit negotiations are supposed to come into the final phase. That means that Austrians and also the Austrian Parliament will have a very special role to play at this time. I think we should ask ourselves how we, as an independent Parliament, are prepared as self-determined, emancipated parliamentarians, whether we are well prepared for it. Our proposal is to set up an expert body, which should provide regular and transparent analyses of Brexit to the government, the population and, above all, Parliamentarians. This proposal was rejected by the Committee. I should now like to refer to the arguments that have also been put forward in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. On the one hand, one has already left the analytical phase in the negotiations; that may be, but I believe that regular information on how the negotiations and the results will affect EU citizens, how this will affect our Members in the policy we are to do, how the citizens, the Austrian companies, for example, who work in the UK, would still be very important. Then there was also the argument that we have an expert with Ambassador Schusterschitz. That's right, it's clear. He is very competent, he also represents the citizens very well. But that doesn't mean you can't do more. There was, of course, also the argument that there is a multi-responsible Brexittaskforce. That is also true, I very much appreciate, but I believe that we need to inform a lot more publicly about it in order to make it clear what consequences it has for a country when it exits from the European Union. It has become clear that there is a lot of need for discussion and that everyone has said yes, that is a proposal, but not the one we think is useful, there are many other ways. That is only normal, that is a proposal by many, but the others are not on the agenda, and no one has brought it in either. However, I think it is important that we deal with this issue here in the House, precisely because we will hold the Presidency in the next half year. This is a part of active parliamentaryism, which everyone here is constantly calling for. The question we would ask ourselves would be: As a Parliament, we could already do this. What if we didn't have the government? – I don’t think so, because we don’t have such a body that would advise us and give us the information. Of course, it is also important because, because of the issue of EU budget every day, especially in day-to-day policy, Brexit also employs us very heavily on the national level. It is therefore all the more important that we be informed on this issue. I think that would be a contribution to active parliamentaryism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e12980	Mr Roman Haider is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13002	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Gamon, only that this request is put to the plenary session and not, as perhaps in the last legislative period, got a first-class funeral in the committee by being postponed, is already showing the new way in which we deal with such requests. In terms of content, you have already said why we will reject this request, it is simply outdated and not necessary. The analytical phase has long been over by the Brexit negotiations, we have an expert with Mr Schusterschitz and there is our own Brexit Force. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs closely follows the progress of the negotiations and also pays particular attention to the question of the legal status of Austrian citizens after the Brexit. Of course, the rights of free movement, on the one hand the EU citizens in the United Kingdom, and the other on the other, are particularly important. In our opinion, these should be preserved permanently – and this is the case in the current state of the negotiations. At the very moment, on the weekend, there was also the timetable when the Brexit should take place, namely next year with a two-year transitional period. That is why your request on the subject is not really necessary, but, Mrs Gamon, I cannot spare you the following: I do believe that this request was originally not so much intended by you, or it is still not that the government parties agree to it. If you read the statement of reasons for your request: It says that the Austrian Federal Government would suggest reasons why we do not want to cooperate with Austrians in the Brexit negotiations. The Federal Government would let the Austrian Parliament fall into the dark. According to their words, “the [...] Federal Government misses a course regarding Brexit at all”. And it would not seem to have been an Austrian position at all. [[Abg. Gamon: Are you in government or in parliament?]] Mrs. Colleague, at the end of the day, you will also write – and I have to quote this literally – that: “The past has also shown that the German Government’s response speed is rather modest in the face of such huge challenges.” This federal government has been in office for 93 days, and the speed of this federal government as regards its implementation is breathtaking. [[Abg. Sherak: That doesn't have to be this!]] You are obviously still talking about the previous government. [[Abg. Scherak: Yes!]] I therefore believe that if you really want us to decide such requests together with you, then you must also give us the opportunity to find formulations that really are voting and do not possibly refer to previous governments of red black and similar, because this federal government cannot be blamed at all, especially as regards the speed of reaction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lag]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13071	Mr Jörg Leichtfried is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13092	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Although I do not fully share the confidence of Mr Haider, I would like to point out that there is at least one mathematical past already in 93 days. When discussing the Brexit, one thing has to be clear to us: Brexit is a good example of how populism, responsibility, and stupid governance – I say it quite consciously: stupid governance – have triggered a chain reaction that in the end harms all of Europe. I actually had the hope that the government parties have been dealing responsibly with this challenge since these 93 days – and it is a challenge. We need to keep a line, we need to know a way, we need to find a goal when it comes to spending a possible surplus of 10 to 15 billion euros in the EU budget. This Hope, Appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, it's gone a lot, I'm giving it up. Why did she disappear? - I don't know what that government wants. The Federal Chancellor says on the one hand, well, this amount must be saved in the system, 15 billion euros, safe. And then, on the other hand, the Head of Delegation of the ÖVP in the European Parliament, Othmar Karas, says no, we will have to pay more. - Estimated government parties! Mrs. Foreign Minister! What's now? The Chancellor also says that we must see that there is a responsible Brexit process, where not too much is happening and the interests of the British also need to be preserved. - Yes, I see it that way. What does the EU delegation of FPÖ do? . At the last plenary session in Strasbourg, she voted against exactly this and for the harsh Brexit. What's the matter, Mr. Rosary? This is also your responsibility as a clubman. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, NEOS and list of fungus.]] [[Abg. Rosary: I wasn't there!]] I do not think this is a responsible way of dealing with this situation, ladies and gentlemen. That's also populist, it's not responsible and it's craftsmanship bad. Mrs. Gamon, I don't know if experts can help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13133	Mr Berlakovich is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! There is no doubt that Britain's exit from the European Union is a serious blow for the common Europe. If in the past the US and Europe on the world political stage were the determining forces, new players have now appeared: since longer China, India, African mergers, South America. That is, there are new players in the world who take massive influence. In this respect, Brexit is a political weakening of this common Europe of the European Union, for it has always been seen in international negotiations that through its past, past, historical contacts, Great Britain simply has a global network that has been for the benefit of the common Europe, for example in climate change negotiations. There would have been no international climate agreement if UK had not contributed significantly to the success of all its international contacts. Why do I say that? . The decision has been made, the Brexit is taking place, the British people have spoken, but we must draw the right conclusions from it, namely, what the negotiations with the United Kingdom with regard to leaving the country and, on the other hand, how the European Union can be strengthened if it is weakened by such withdrawal of an important member. On the negotiations: If the third largest country in the European Union, the second largest economy, is the second largest net payer, this is of course a huge challenge, in every respect, financially and in many other areas, but – a thickly underlined but – the European Union must remain consistent. It can't be that a state is leaving, but then I'm saying I'm not going to have any obligations, but I want to have rights, so to speak, Cherry Picking, as it's said, that you're going to pick up the raisins and still want to be there somehow to take advantage of this European Union. - Even if it's a big country. The example effect would be fatal: If, in the case of the United Kingdom, very, very many concessions are made, then some other state, who may no longer want to join in European solidarity, can also come up with the idea and say, well, if this is granted to the British, then we could leave, because then we will somehow be there. It is therefore right what the European Council, what Europe is doing together, that is to say, to negotiate this Brexit process very consistently. The Austrian position is also covered by that. It is claimed that the Austrian Federal Government had no position. That's not the case. The European Council has immediately adopted guidelines, a negotiating mandate has been adopted. Michel Barnier is the chief negotiator of the European Union, a very experienced man who was a Commissioner for the EU and who already held many political functions and gained his experience. The European Union's ideas are also based on Austrian concerns when it comes to the rights of EU citizens who already live in the United Kingdom and want to continue to live there, and how British citizens are vice versa here in the EU. It is also about financial commitments and the like. In this respect, an agreement has recently been reached: Britain is expected to leave in March 2019, but there is a transitional phase until the end of 2020. This is intended to give our companies and EU citizens first legal certainty and second, the assurance that they can continue to operate economically here. It is important that the UK should comply with all the rules at this time and that it should also make a financial contribution, which is important in order to achieve this. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It has also been agreed that the rights of EU citizens mentioned by me are, of course, respected. That's very important. You have already mentioned this, because of the short speaking time, I do not want to go further than that, there is the summit ambassador Schusterschitz, who is now also at the disposal of the committee in Parliament. Minister Kneissesl and Minister Blümel are also available in the Committees when it comes to information. In the final consequence, I think it is important that we think very well about it – because Mr Leichtfried mentioned this and the Austrian Federal Government says so – that a European Union, which is getting smaller, needs to change structurally, but must also strengthen itself internally in order to continue to be a politically important player in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13217	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 53 of the additions. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[18:02:30]] 15. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 166/A(E) by Dr Gudrun Kugler, Dr Susanne Fürst, Members and colleagues on Austria's candidate for a seat in the UN Human Rights Council (39 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 150/A(E) by Mrs Dr Stephanie Krisper, colleagues on the protection of asylum procedures in respect of Afghanistan (38d.b.) 17. Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 100/A(E) by Dr Harald Türk, colleagues on the persecution of religious minorities such as Christians and Baháí in Yemen and the religiously motivated death sentence against Hamid Bin Haidara, a member of the Baháí (40 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13291	We shall now proceed to items 15 to 17 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Krisper is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I can give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13320	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! There are laws, and they must be observed. This applies to those people who come to us and are taken up by our society, but also to the Austrian state. [[President Bures shall take over the chairmanship.]] Austria is obliged to return to the ban on torture and non-refoulement – that is, to the command that no one whose body and life are in danger of being sent back. Both are derived from the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 33 of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. The government has committed itself to all these agreements in its government programme. The Deputy Head of UNHCR-Afghanistan Aurvasi Patel last week stated that Kabul is not currently an internal refugee-talternative in the face of escalating violence. In 2017, the Committee against torture of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has again noted that torture is widespread in Afghanistan and is systematically applied, including by the official Afghan security forces. – Today, 29 people died again in a attack in Kabul. However, the decisions of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum have the character of a Russian roulette: If you are lucky, you can stay; if you have bad luck, you will be sent into danger to body and life. In the budget on asylum and migration presented today, the impact targets seem to relate only to the pace of the procedures, not to the quality. The poor quality of the first instance decisions leads to a flood of complaints to the Federal Administrative Court and to the exaggeration of the judges there. This has also confirmed us by the umbrella association of the administrative judges. Furthermore, those who are in the second instance before the BVwG must hope that the travel report of a certain Mr Mahringer will not be used as an opinion as a basis for the decision. Furthermore, it is not possible to really bring back expatriate asylum seekers like the perpetrators of the Praterstern. In this case, I can only say that it is inconceivable that the opportunity has not been used to organize the voluntary leave. Just to make this clear: Voluntary leave does not speak for security in the home country. I myself did refugee work there during the Civil War in Sri Lanka. Every day the bombs flew, and yet there were voluntary returnees. Free will on security – that can be a person’s choice, but not the state, because we have the Non-Refoulement Command. In this case, the voluntary leave was not forced, although the authorities were aware of the asylum seekers' place of residence and their serious drug problem, but rather the simple cases were taken care of, those persons who are completely constructive and therefore easy to catch, as was the young mother with her four-year-old son, who was picked up last week in the morning by several police cars and many police dogs, including police dogs, for deportation. – Statistics are getting better. Even sincere exit obligations are often not implemented by the Foreign Police in good time. So we can't afford to protect those people who protect him. It is still necessary to protect the population from real risk potential – both of which are unworthy of a rule of law. A little more about the potential for danger: When it comes to security in this country, you need to make sure that asylum seekers do not become criminal and therefore cause people suffering. What does the once-in-a-life of criminal sociology say? – Integration measures safeguard people and are the best measures to prevent them from slipping into crime. However, they want to save when it comes to integration into the labour market and in school and basic services. They want to promote a division in society so that your enemy images can confirm themselves. Without enemy images, the basis of existence escapes you. I'm not saying there must be no deportation. I am not saying that any applications for protection are unfounded. I'm not saying Afghanistan can never be sure. I only say that it is our obligation as a democratic rule of law to evaluate, according to best knowledge and conscience and according to scientific standards, whether a return to Afghanistan is possible without breach of our obligations. Due to the situation that has apparently changed in the last few weeks and the lack of expertise of the relevant bodies that decide, such a serious evaluation is currently not possible. We respect the case law of our courts, so also the BVwG. This request does not require anything other than the temporary suspension of the deportations until the courts judge on the basis of a statement of evidence that is fair to the rule of law. We will decide today that this House will support Austria's candidate for the UN Human Rights Council. Perhaps we should also take an active interest in human rights. I invite you to take this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13387	Next speaker: Mrs Dr.in Susanne Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13409	Madam President. High house! I would like to refer to TOP 15. At the last meeting of the Human Rights Committee, we worked with Austria's candidate for a seat in the UN Human Rights Council and decided to support it unanimously. I think we have a very high level of human rights and very many people here are giving us a very high level of rights that they do not have in their countries of origin. – This is now addressed to the speaker who spoke before me. Austria has applied for membership for the second time since the UN Human Rights Council, as the promotion and protection of human rights for Austria and also for this new government are of very high priority. We want to continue Austria's long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights, and we want to stress it by the new membership. The Council is directly under the UN General Assembly. That is, we are here on a very high level. In the past, Austria has also introduced resolutions to support and promote human rights, which have also been given great approval on a regular basis. With determination, this government wants to make the most of its commitment to human rights. continue legal protection in other countries, primarily in the form of constructive dialogue. The cooperative approach with exchange of experience or concrete support for engagement is thus a priority. In many cases, of course, this does not help anything – then efforts must be made to build up international pressure with a long-term public criticism to move other states to improve the protection of human rights. In general, the issue of human rights is also very much taken into account in Austrian foreign policy, also by the new foreign minister. This candidacy is linked to the first membership in the years 2011 to 2014. A focus theme in which Austria was particularly active and will continue to be is the promotion of religious freedom and the protection of religious minorities. As Austria will surely deepen its commitment and, in particular, observe the great theme of Christian persecution worldwide and make a constructive contribution to reducing suffering. The security of journalists, the defence of freedom of the press and freedom of expression is, of course, a major issue which also concerns Europe when looking at developments in Turkey. The rights of children and people with disabilities are also an important issue; Children and weak people must always focus on every policy and every human rights policy that wants to live up to its name. The protection of children in armed conflicts together with promotion measures to ensure access to education, health care and food continues to be a priority. Women's rights, the strengthening of women's legal status has proved to be an important key in development cooperation. We therefore also want to support equal access to justice, education, medical care and political participation in this area. The strengthening of the rule of law is also a priority. Austria is particularly committed to supporting programmes to reform the legal area and to the development of judicial and reconciliation mechanisms following serious fights and measures to increase the quality of criminal justice and also the enforcement of the criminal law. We therefore hope to include Austria in the UN Human Rights Council so that we can continue this commitment more actively in these areas. Human rights are indeed a very great achievement of our society, and we must in fact note that the progress made is never irreversible, as our Federal President has said. A membership, however, which must also be stressed, is not without challenges, as there are many members in the Human Rights Council who do not share our human rights understanding. Many of the values and rights in the West, of course, are openly challenged by many members who are represented in the Council themselves, and in part are even actively undermined or undermined. If countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Congo or Angola are members and feel called upon to monitor human rights in other countries, this is of course not quite unproblematic. Islamic States also sometimes try to abuse the Council for their own political purposes. So, as an example, there has been a resolution in recent years to stop any religious religion. Criticism. In the interpretation, in the text then only more Islam was specifically mentioned. That is, there was a resolution that found a majority in which states were recommended to stop any religious criticism of Islam. There are already very manifest political interests behind it, for which this Council is being instrumentalized; indeed, in view of the Christian persecution in the Arab states, this is a mockery. This will, of course, also prevent criticism of Islam in Western Europe. That is, we must be aware that Western democracies are in the minority with their understanding of human rights, including in the Council. Different cultures and traditions, religion and politics are involved in the understanding of human rights, and there are worlds in between. All the more so, however, we should be represented in the Council and try not only to prevent and guard human rights violations, but also to defend our understanding of human rights and civil rights and to torpedo migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13482	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Harald Türt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13506	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In January 2018, the Yemeni citizen Hamid bin Haidara was sentenced to death in Yemen. We Austrians stand with quite a great majority of the death penalty – thank God, I say – negatively against it; because of their own history, because of the fact that the death penalty can be used very easily in dictatorships to maintain power, and especially because it constitutes a violation of human dignity. [[Abg. New builder: This is the top...!]] This death sentence, however, is particularly terrifying because of religious hatred. Bin Haidara is an active member of the Baháí religious community, a religion very peacefully oriented in itself. It was also necessary to act quickly so that a solidarity act could be put in place. On the one hand, the aim was to save a person from the sheepacet, but on the other hand also to set a sign against religious fundamentalism, in this case against Islamic religious fundamentalism. There was a heated debate in the Committee first. ÖVP and FPÖ were a bit squeaky and refused to go there. The Jewish Wisdom: He who saves a human life saves the world, but then he has provided a common way. That's what I'm saying, thank you. It is an absolutely important and good story, since it is a clear sign, and therefore the joint motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13541	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Gudrun Kugler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13562	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say a few words about the requests made. Recently, a Swiss woman was with me, an impressive woman who told me how bad the situation in Kabul is in Afghanistan. This Swiss woman is relocated to Kabul with her retirement to help on-site. Mrs. Dr. Krisper, it is of course that we are granting protection in Austria, but also that we are looking for ways to help in Afghanistan on site. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] But they are proposing that we suspend the return to Afghanistan. They give reasons for this and I will address it. But only for information for everyone: We expect about 40,000 Afghans in Austria. This is the largest group in basic supply, and it is the second largest group among applicants. Now you say, Mrs. Dr. Krisper: We cannot go back to Afghanistan, there is an opinion that does not meet scientific standards. – Yes, this opinion is currently being examined. But you make a pre-conception by saying that it is a travel report. [[Abg. Scherak: It's a travel report!]] But there is a procedure for this. Perhaps we should first ask ourselves the question, on the basis of which basis the officials, the judges and judges decide. There is not only this one opinion, but there are country reports and state documentations that contain information from large international institutions, for example the Red Cross. In its conclusions, the opinion corresponds to the jurisdiction of the VwGH, the VfGH and the UNHCR. You say two weeks ago someone was here, a UNHCR employee who said the situation is getting worse. - That's right. If the UNHCR changes the guidelines, Austria will certainly also think about how to deal with it. This has not yet been done. Mr Mahringer's opinion also refers only to one area of Afghanistan and also to young working people. So it doesn't have the reach you speak to him here either. The decisions taken in Austria are on average compared with other European countries. Over 33 percent of Afghan asylum applications are positive in Austria, as well as in other EU countries. On the safety situation: As long as the Supreme Courts say that the security situation needs to be examined in individual cases, but a return is possible, we must also not agree with the judges that they are considering exactly what they are doing. I would like to thank the officials and the judges very much for their hard work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] However, I would like to thank someone else, the many individuals, the parish communities, the associations that are committed to refugees and to integration. There are countless hours of volunteering, and we also need to see and honor that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Dr. Krisper, I too am sorry if we have to destroy personal hopes or if someone has to be traced back and a new life has to start there. But we know one thing: We cannot solve the problems of the whole world in Austria. Mr. Dr. Tür has raised a discussion that we had in relation to Yemen and the case of Hamid bin Haidara in the Human Rights Committee. They called us “fucky. ” Mr Dr. Tür, I would just like to say that there has been a discussion about a wording, but it was always out of dispute that we share the concern. Instead of calling the government fractions “fucky”, I would rather say that the opposition has proved to be bulky. I am pleased that we have made a joint request. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Yes, there are many concerns in the area of human rights and there are many current issues. Today we don't talk about about the world downsyndrome day. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig stressed the right to inclusion; I say to you: 90 percent of children with Downsyndrome are not even born. Today, world day is also against racism. In this area too, there is a lot of work on human rights. Human rights are an area of policy in which we can find consensus. I think it's very important that we do it together. I would like to offer you this cooperation and hope that you will respond to this offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13626	Next speaker: Mr Amesbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13647	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too will deal with the NEOS request, supported by SPÖ and List Pilz, concerning “Safering legal asylum procedures in relation to Afghanistan”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I must say that when I read this request, I was somewhat irritated, because it is really a question of suspending returns or deportations to Afghanistan, and so is the text of your request. As a reason, you should point out the security situation in Afghanistan or at least in parts of Afghanistan, just as Mrs Krisper did. They also point out to the experts, as you did in your speech, to whom you claim to work uncleanly and unscientificly, or to show lack of qualifications. Mrs Kugler referred to it, and Karl Mahringer is an expert in this field. If you had researched, you would know that this gentleman himself lived in Afghanistan in the years 2009 to 2014, is now still regularly in Afghanistan on site and also regularly visits those areas in which deportations are carried out. More knowledge of the actual situation will hardly have anyone here and elsewhere in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Apart from that – and this is actually the core of my statement on the subject of experts – it is not the task of our Members to judge it, because Parliament, you know, and the Federal Government, too, are not responsible for selecting an expert. The selection and appointment of an expert in a court proceedings constitutes an act of independent case law on which neither the government nor Parliament can and cannot influence. It is a smooth issue which is to be included in this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scherak:... in the committee!]] The question is: What is the opposition really about with this request? What's the thought? – I think it’s your point – this is also the core of your request – that you simply want to prevent deportations to Afghanistan. That's where the question arises: Why do you want to prevent these deportations? When I think of the SPÖ, which supports the request, I hope that the background is not the one that you can expect in the future to see new levels of electorate that you can do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] It is also known that parts of the SPÖ stand for a general foreign election right at all levels. I hope that's not your intention, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rosary: And if so, please tell them immediately!]] However, in order to remain fair and to address things properly, we must also clearly say that there are problems with Afghans as with hardly any other immigration group in Austria. You know the most recent cases: A few days ago, on the 7th. On March 23, a 23-year-old Afghan in Vienna-Leopoldstadt brought down four people, including a three-person family. The 67-year-old father was given a lung Foundation by this immigrant, which he thanked God. I can only wish the father with this serious injury at this point all the good for his further recovery. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] After that, this afghan has gone off to judicial officers. In 2015, he came to Austria with the refugee current. ==References== March, the day of your application to the Human Rights Committee, here at Heldenplatz, a few meters from this meeting room, an Afghan attacked a policeman sitting in the car and tried to tear him out of the car. There is an internal review report from the AMS, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen, in which there is talk of massive problems, especially with Afghans – in addition to Chechens – the inconsistency of labour, the high level of violence towards AMS employees, and the very high level of female hostility. In addition, states have become known in Vienna schools. Of course – so that this accusation does not come – not all Afghans are criminal; no one claims it would be absurd. It must be noted, however, that very, very many criminals in this country are Afghans, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have heard that deportations to Afghanistan do not fit all in this house, they also do not fit many NGOs and left-wing clubs. We can be glad that we have Herbert Kicklal's Minister of the Interior, who is doing everything possible to act as restrictively as possible, and will also examine the possibility of a follow-up for asylum seekers who have become criminal after their imprisonment. – Thank you, Minister Kickl! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Bravo, Kickl!]] To conclude: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you know very well that asylum law is an individual right in which the individual case is examined, also by the expert criticised by you. Each applicant has the right to a proper procedure. That is also guaranteed in this Republic, and that is also good. If the reason for asylum is actually present, asylum – understood as protection and help on time – should also be granted. If this is not the case when it is an asylum fraud who wants to immigrate into our social system, which is going to be criminal, then asylum law cannot be granted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] This is the rule of law that you see in danger, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Zinggl, an asylum fraud, is a person who will not be persecuted in our social system. This is an asylum fraud - this is the explanation because you have asked the interim question. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kolba and Mr Zinggl.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is legitimate that They are concerned about the security situation in Afghanistan and are concerned about it. That is absolutely legitimate. However, I believe that the primary task of the Austrians as Austrian politicians, as elected representatives of the Austrians, is to ensure the security of the Austrians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13777	The next item is Mrs Petra Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13798	We are discussing the request made by Steffi Krisper regarding deportations to Afghanistan without a Minister of the Interior – I am in principle right too – and yes, I do think that the highest premise for state action must be, on the one hand, the rule of law and, on the other hand, legal certainty. This includes, on the one hand, basic knowledge on the one hand, on the basis of which asylum decisions are adopted or decisions taken by the Federal Administrative Court, and, on the other hand, the respect of human rights, in the present case generally the Geneva Convention on Refugees, on the other hand, in particular the prohibition of referendums. The basis for all this, for the rule of law and legal certainty, is knowledge. Now it is true that the UNHCR is drawing a very, very dramatic picture of the deterioration of the security situation in Afghanistan in the last few days. I can also point to the Amnesty report and its chapter on Afghanistan – that is, I don't think anyone, Amnesty also has an idea of what they are talking about. It is already striking that Amnesty and UNHCR are drawing a very different picture of Afghanistan than the only expert we obviously rely on in this case in the Supreme Court and whose opinions, as has been said, are in doubt scientifically. And no, I do not doubt with any syllable that after a negative asylum notice or in the event of a non-existent residence permit, people should not and cannot simply remain in Austria. No, if necessary, they are also due, that is not a question. The former Foreign Minister and current Chancellor clearly did not do his homework in terms of return agreements, because there is often still a lack of them. [[Abg. Höbart: It's still coming! That's what we're gonna do now!]] And it is still so when there are feedbacks that these must be carried out under legal and human rights-compliant conditions. Everything points out, however, that this is difficult for Afghanistan at the moment, because there are obviously thousands of dead and injured civilians and civilians alone last year – almost half of them women and children – and because the infrastructure and the economy are completely collapsed. If Mr Mahringer in his opinion shows photos of well-sorted fruit and vegetable stalls or an unblemished hospital, this is not yet an indication that a proper nutrition situation and access to health care facilities for large layers of the population are real. There are hundreds of thousands of exiles from the region that have been forced to return, there are 1.8 million national refugees, and Kabul is now, says UNHCR, the second most dangerous region in the country. So it's not far from with the national possibilities for escape or escape-talternatives. I think that if one simply takes the facts and the rule of law as the basis, then the mind and our sense of law would have to tell us that, at the moment, repatriations to Afghanistan are difficult or impossible at all, and we should act in accordance with this sense of law and in accordance with these human rights principles. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13838	Next, Mrs Kira Grünberg speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13862	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! “All men are born free and equal to dignity and rights. They are gifted with reason and conscience, and they are to be with one another in The spirit of fraternity.” – This is Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which must be the basis of all our thinking and action. Austria is once again a seat in the United Nations Human Rights Council. The Human Rights Council is the UN's central human rights body. For a three-year period, from 2019 to 2021, Austria intends to assume a special global responsibility for strengthening human rights and showing human rights violations under the motto “Building Bridges for Human Rights”. I am convinced that Austria can make an important contribution at international level to the promotion and protection of human rights for the benefit of all. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] That is why I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this motion. We also have many national tasks ahead of us to implement all human rights without any kind of discrimination. That is why I very much welcome the fact that the government programme provides for a parliamentary survey on the subject of late abortion, which I would particularly like to mention on today's World Down Syndrome Day. The motto “Building Bridges” also has an essential symbolism for me personally – in the sense that at the age of 24, I literally live my third life: from the professional sportswoman to the wheelchair and finally to the speaker’s seat of the Austrian National Council. It is my first speech here in the House today. Please allow me to briefly explain my ideas and projects. In the last two and a half years, I've met a very different side of life. When one suddenly has a disability, not only does one’s own life change, but other people’s view of one’s own. Unfortunately, much too often is looked at what I can no longer do so well, at my supposed weaknesses. My strengths and possibilities, which I have remained and which I have even won, are not perceived at all. There is therefore an urgent need for rethinking, for accessibility begins in our minds. People with disabilities, whether visible or invisible, must be given a fair chance to really demonstrate their abilities. Give perspective and do not take, this applies to all areas of life. The key is not disability, but the framework conditions that need to be adapted or created, which, of course, represents a major social challenge. I've been living with personal assistance for a year. Not only at work, but also in my spare time, my assistants accompany me everywhere. Without them I could not exercise my profession, could not stand here today and hold my first speech in the House. Personal assistance is one of these conditions to be created for disabled people in order to be able to lead a self-determined life. While personal assistance is regulated at the workplace throughout the country, those affected quickly reach their borders in the leisure area depending on the federal state. The randomity of the place of residence may not play a role here. In addition, I am working on an all-encompassing accessible information platform designed to provide people with disabilities and their environment with knowledge and documentation, because the most opaque and complex authorities and processes are a avoidable burden for disabled people. To return to the Human Rights Council, I would like to conclude with the reference to the right of self-determination, which is an essential idea of human rights: Every person has the right to a self-determined life. – I will be particularly committed to this with the help of your support. In this sense, I am looking forward to a good, fair and appreciative cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13929	The next item is the report by Mr Christian Ries. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e13954	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today I too have the honour to give my first speech on a human rights issue, and I am very pleased because I am a member of the largest human rights organisation in Austria, namely the Austrian Federal Police – good day, Federal Minister! Austria has been one of those countries that have committed to abolishing the death penalty for decades; since 1968 it has been part of our constitution. This is also true in most Western democracies. Otherwise, however, it is in countries of Asia or in the Islamic world, where there is no strict separation between state and religion. It is often added that one is said guilty of crimes that in the Western world are not even a crime, not even a crime. With us, such things are not even punishable – for example, I would like to mention homosexuality or adultery. Nor can we imagine the persecution of non-believers in the Western world. It is different in Yemen, where not only has civil war been in place for years, but where the persecution of Christians and Bahá’í is now almost on the agenda, as we can see from international reports. ==References== In January 2018, the Bahá'í Hamid Bin Haidara was sentenced to death in Saza, due to its religious confession. ==References== Austria therefore advocated a diplomatic letter of protest at the European External Action Service on 1 January. Thus, Austria has already become active – unlike other countries. The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs, Mrs Karin Kneissel, thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Austria will therefore be committed to the rights of religious minorities in Yemen and will continue to stand up against the death judgments currently imposed. Hardly a country, like Austria, has been committed to the protection of human rights worldwide. Austria really has a proud tradition, and under Federal Minister Kneissl this tradition will surely find a continuation. However, it is not only about dealing directly with crisis spots and engaging in them, but also about ensuring domesticity that freedom of religion in Austria is also generally respected. Through the migration movements of recent years, many people have come to us Islamic faith, especially from the Arab world. For these, freedom of faith and religious freedom is a new world, so to speak, new land. Many of them simply reject it. Also the spectacular violence of the last days and weeks, which were mainly committed by Afghans in Austria, speak a clear language. Arik Brauer finally stopped in an ORF broadcast by saying that this immigration also poses the greatest danger to a re-triggering anti-Semitism. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We must take this view seriously, because Arik Brauer is one who was with us himself between 1938 and 1945, and this opinion must be respected. An Islam study on behalf of the Austrian Integration Fund from 2017 also shows clearly that many immigrants or asylum seekers are still very arrested in the Islamic world. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: These are facts that must not leave us cold! If we take our values seriously, it is not only necessary that we Austrians continue to work for freedom of faith and against the imposition of the death penalty, but that we also guard domestically that freedom of faith remains an untouchable good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14014	Mrs Sabine Schatz is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14038	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! Of course, we support the application of Austria for the mandate in the UN Human Rights Council for the period 2019 to 2021. In the same breath, however, I expect a clear commitment, especially by the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ, to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and list fungus.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Yes! It's in the constitutional rank with us!]] ==References====External links==* Official website In March, he participated in the right-wing congress of the self-proclaimed “Developers of Europe” in Aistersheim, Upper Austria. This right Congress is rightly regarded as an international networking meeting between the extremes of right and the theory of conspiracy. [[Abg. Martin Graf: Go! You have no idea!]] [[Abg. New builder: You have no idea at all!]] And when Mario Eustacchio, the Graz Deputy Mayor, thus the Deputy Mayor of the Human Rights City of Graz, in his speech published in the far right medium “Info-Direct”, says – quote – “a religious worship of the ‘human rights’ has led to the catastrophic conditions that we have in Europe today”, so if such an important FPÖ official makes such a statement at the right congress and so diffuses human rights, I expect to clarify and distance myself not only from the FPÖ, but also from the ÖVP. [[Abg. Rosary: So last time I saw these demonstrations, your human rights activists!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Rosary, don't get nervous!]] [[Abg. Rosary: No, no!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14175	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14190	Perhaps you distance yourself from right-wing extremism, racism and anti-Semitism, then you do not need to be so excited in this discussion, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. New builder: What of? You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Of course!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Höbart]] [[Abg. Rosary: Of course, but in some cases that's not what you think!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I wonder, Has Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz also made a vow of silence with the conclusion of the Coalition Agreement? [[Abg. New builder: You have no idea!]] I therefore wonder because the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is silent about all the individual cases caused by his coalition partner, and this silence must finally end. He has responsibility for his coalition partner! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Social democracy has once stood for freedom of expression – not now!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The declaration of human rights was adopted 70 years ago – as a direct response to the atrocities of World War II and Nazi fascism. It is in all our responsibility to uphold these human rights every day, especially in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14371	Mr Mario Lindner has now been reported to speak. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14396	Highly esteemed Madam President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On human rights: If the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Austria, as was the case last week on Thursday, presents himself to the members of the Austrian Federal Council and teaches them about Parliamentary muss or about the vow formula, then this is already very, very cynical. Mr Federal Minister, it would be much more useful if you would teach the members of your party about European human rights. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: The next Morala Apostle!]] General Declaration of Human Rights: Article 1 has already been heard. Article 2: “Every person is entitled to all rights and freedoms announced in this Declaration”, “without any difference, such as by race, skin color, gender, language, religion, political or other view, national or social origin, wealth, birth or any other state.” [[Abg. Hoebart: Yes!]] [[Abg. Oyemine!]] Article 6: ‘Each person has the right to be recognised as entitled everywhere.’ Article 7: “All men are equal before the law and have no difference in their right to equal protection through the law.” [[Abg. Höbart: It's terrible that this is in there!]] ‘All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination contrary to this declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.’ [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. New builder: This also applies to everyone!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Ask once..., what they think about it!]] Article 20 “All people have the right to gather together peacefully and to unite into associations.” ‘No one may be forced to belong to an association.’ [[Call the FPÖ:Keep up - -!]] [[Abg. Rosary: (in the direction of its colleagues in the political groups) It is a difference between reading and reading in a meaningful way!]] Article 24: ‘Every person has the right to rest and leisure and, in particular, to a reasonable limit of working time and regular paid holidays.’ [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To colleagues from the ÖVP: In all your considerations on political decisions, with all your legislative proposals, you will learn human rights! [[Consistency with SPÖ and list Pilz as well as the Abg. Krisper.]] [[Abg. Lausch: Preach this in North Korea!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the International Day against Racism. Racism is not an opinion, racism is a crime!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14588	The Federal Minister has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14609	Madam President. High house! I would like to address just a few words on the question of Afghanistan and deportations to Afghanistan. In this respect, I think we have had a debate in the Committee on Human Rights. And if this is what my previous speakers have just said about human rights, I can tell you: We uphold human rights, but we also uphold the rule of law. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Erasim.]] And if we say that we uphold the rule of law, then this rule of law also includes the consistent execution of repatriation and deportations after a legally negative asylum notice. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Bravo! Finally!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly reject the allegation that such a procedure has anything to do with inhumanity. If you do what is done here, if you make such an accusation to the officials of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, namely, the accusation of inhumanity, then you are either not aware of the things that are going to happen there, or you are evading very solid officials here, and I do not allow this to happen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You know that there are individual case studies in the asylum procedure. These individual case studies are carried out with the utmost care by the competent officials who have a very solid training in this area. When I speak of humanity, it is not always just an emotional industry, as I hear it very, very often from the left, but humanity is also reasonable in essential areas, and reasonableness is the rule of law and is the rule of law and is consistent application of it. That's humanity! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I believe that it is necessary once again to delete this, because when one speaks of an ordinary asylum policy, of an orderly asylum policy – that is what we have been away from in recent years – this also includes a consistent return policy, because if one does not consistently lead back, then the whole asylum procedure as such does not make sense – and for this I am not to have, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Plessl: Who was Minister of the Interior, please?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl.]] By the way, in Austria, in connection with Afghanistan, the process looks exactly the same as in other European countries. We are not outcasts in the negative sense, as it is so much underwent by forces of the political left. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] The 33 percent recognition rate for Afghans is exactly on the European average – it is exactly on the European average. We are moving to Afghanistan just as other European countries do, just as Sweden does, just as Germany does, and just as it does Norway. This has nothing to do with inhumanity or non-compliance with rule of law, it is the opposite of it, it is its consistent application, and therefore I will continue this course consistently. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Just so you have an idea of what size we're talking about here: From January 2015 to February 2018, there were 41 500 asylum applications from Afghanistan – 41 500 asylum applications! Afghans are the top 1 nation in the field of basic supply; 25 000 Afghans are in basic supply in Austria. So that you have only one comparison: The second position is people from Pakistan, but we are 8 000, and that is already a good difference. So you see that the struggle with Afghans is an essential part of the important work of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, simply because the quantity is such a big one, and it is actually a matter of course that, when you come to negative procedural results, you are also consistently dismissed. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the officials behind whom I stand at 100 percent, they do not somehow take this out of the wrist and do not produce hip shots, but they take their decisions on the basis of the so-called state documentation. This is a solid foundation, scientifically developed, with many, many sources. This is where international partners work, there are people on the ground who are looking at the situation, who are going to give up a very precise assessment of the situation in the country in which they are to be moved. In this case, it is Afghanistan. Once you read these 200 pages through exactly, you can see that there is a safe escape-talterative in Afghanistan, and that's the big room Kabul. There are also such high court judgments that express this, which even applies to people who have never lived as Afghans in Afghanistan, but who are in Iran, for example; but there, too, one comes to realize that they can be brought back to Afghanistan, because there is also a safe escape-talternative in Afghanistan. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light peace.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the political left do nothing good – itself, all of us – if they ignore these things. If you want to have a solid asylum policy, if you want to help those who really want to help, then if we come to appropriate knowledge, if we have a legal outcome in an appropriate asylum procedure, you may not go here and vice versa set all the levers in motion to dispel this as the opposite of rule of law. If you are doing so, ladies and gentlemen, then you are taking the rule of law with your feet and are disappointed with a very clear expectation of the population in connection with a restrictive asylum policy. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] My approach to these things is at least another. I see myself in a commitment to this expectation of the Austrian population. I see no contradiction to the rule of law at all, but I see an execution of the rule of law. I see, when we proceed in this way, the production of law and order in an area in which too long chaos has ruled, and it is, I believe, necessary that this is finally organized and structured. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Klaus Uwe Feichtinger and Mr Wittmann]] You can rely on me, ladies and gentlemen, I will turn on all the screws that are necessary for us to make a breakthrough in this area of law and order, and I will do so here and I will do so at European level.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14769	Mrs Birgit Silvia Sandler. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14794	Madam President. Minister! Dear Members of the House! Today I too can give my first speech. Of course, we also support Austria's application for a seat in the UN Human Rights Council. Since my knowledge of three free places is applying for three nations, this should be a task that the Federal Government can solve. One of the tasks of the Human Rights Council is, as my previous speaker said, the defence of freedom of the press and the media. In the period 2011 to 2014, Austria also focused on the enforcement of freedom of expression and freedom of the press. I would like a government that strongly supports Austria's candidate for the Human Rights Council, as it says in the application, to also strongly defend human rights and fundamental values within Austria. Statements such as lying press, fake news and The same is true not only for me, but also for the president of the Austrian Journalist Club, an attack on freedom of the press and hence on the foundations of democratic states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] If you doubt the statement, the President of the National Council heard it yesterday just as I did here in this House. According to the democratic website, a very important sign of true democracy is the free coverage of broadcasting, television and media. Stop the attacks on the public media and especially on the ORF! – Thank you and a Leoben lucky!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14842	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall vote on Agenda item 15, the resolution annexed to the Committee Report 39 of the Supplements on "Austria's candidate for a seat in the UN Council of Human Rights". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 7) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Human Rights to take note of its report 38 of the supplements. Who is in favour of taking note? – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on item 17 of the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 40 of the Supplements on "the persecution of religious minorities such as Christians and Bahá'í in Yemen and the religiously motivated death sentence against Hamid Bin Haidara, a member of the Bahá'í". I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 8) [[19:01:53]] 18. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the 2017 Court of Auditors Activity Report – BUND 2017/66 series (III-73/27 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14927	We now reach the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I very much welcome the President of the Court of Auditors in our midst and give the floor to Mr Hermann Gahrdas as the first honourable Member. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e14958	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors' activity report for 2017 is a comprehensive and comprehensive one, and it gives Exploration of public financial control in federal, state, local and public enterprises. Overall, I believe, it is a matter of setting priorities for us to carry out audits of the Court of Auditors, their impact, special tasks, the assessment of laws, the organisation of the Court of Auditors and international activities. The Austrian Court of Auditors, in its central control function as Parliament's independent control body, has carried out its control tasks. I would like to thank the President-in-Office. It is the first report to be presented by it alone, and it has already brought in a number of things. I would like to focus briefly on three new initiatives put forward in the Court of Auditors. For the first time, citizens were invited to work on audit planning and to introduce ideas. Over 100 ideas have been put in place, interesting proposals have been submitted to the Court of Auditors, and these have now been received in the examinations. A second innovation is that there have been collective reports so far, there will be individual reports in the future. The reports can be dealt with in a timely manner. Since the start of our President Margit Kraker's office in mid-2016, there has been a close vote between the Courts of Auditors in the countries, the federal government and, of course, the European Court of Auditors. Overall, this is absolutely important, we are moaning at the fact that there are double-tracks or double-checks, where the vote is absolutely important. An example to be highlighted is cooperation with the European Court of Auditors. There has been an examination of the high-speed railway projects in Europe, and as expertise the test report for the Brenner Base Tunnel has been used and, I believe, has been able to use synergies. Also pleasing is another aspect: In 2010, a transparency database was introduced by the Ministry of Finance in Austria. This one has been sent very little to date. By the pressure and demand of the Court of Auditors, there are now initial successes to indicate that figures are fed in. For example, by January 2017, Upper Austria entered the transparency database 450 000 grants. The municipal government has also announced to feed, and Lower Austria plans to feed on all funding by summer 2018. It is rather unfortunate that there is still no clarification of who has the audit competence in relation to Flughafen Wien AG at the moment. The effect of the Court of Auditors' work is confirmed by the fact that 47 percent of the recommendations requested from the 2,817 have been implemented and 28 percent have been committed to implementation, with an effect of 75 percent. Especially positive is the impact at municipal level, followed by the countries, then the federal government. The follow-up tests prove that it is important that we also require things to be sustainable when examinations have been completed. Even before the government was in office, our President made ten proposals on what should be taken up by the new government, and this called for new challenges in terms of issues such as digitization, a reform strategy for Austria and adapting the school. The Government of the United Kingdom of team has included these proposals, and numerous points can be found in the government programme and are even in implementation. Examples of this are German classes before entering school and the government's site package. This report 2017 is a contribution to documenting and developing public financial control in Austria, and I hope that the experience and the findings from it will be reflected in future political work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15031	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15055	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! First: In the short term, I am jumping in for my colleague and interlocutor Karin Greiner, who unfortunately suffers from God's short-term illness. I can take the opportunity to wish for best and rapid recovery from here. In that sense, everything is good! - A lady's always a faggot, I'll give you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Singer: But she would've been a coward!]] The activity report – it has already been addressed – is of course an extensive work for us mandates here in the House, and what I particularly like, and that must also be mentioned here, is that not only the 2 817 recommendations have come, but that in 2017 really 65 reports to the National Council, which came to the House – thank you very much. However, what is also significant and really very profound are the 18 cross-sectional audits carried out by the Court of Auditors across Austria. This, of course, also gives us a witness about where we stand and how the Court of Auditors' recommendations lead us to the implementation phase. There is also a clear trend, namely that the smaller communities or the municipalities work very efficiently; probably they are a little more afraid of the Court of Auditors, otherwise I cannot explain it. [[Abg. Hammer: At first in the Mühlviertel!]] In this area you really come to a 89 percent degree of implementation and efficiency. We reached only 47 percent in the federal government, with 25 percent, which is fair to say, pledged but not yet implemented; but the implementation has been promised. The remaining 25 percent are, of course, in the review procedure, that is, it is still being considered, but it is not yet fixed. If you take these percentages, we are also around 75 percent. The federal states, however, are lagging behind. These are only at a real average of 72 per cent, and I am now saving myself to call those federal states that are really behind them and actually only perform tasks from their point of view and do not listen to the Court of Auditors and even not to the national accounting court. In this sense, thank you very much for this report. All the good for the future, and I am really pleased that these measures will be implemented at least by the municipalities to almost 90 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15109	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15136	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! It has already been said a lot about the Court of Auditors' activity report; it has done a lot again last year. I would like to focus on the initiatives you have presented over this year, and on what is associated with them. There were some initiatives, I'm just taking three out. An initiative concerns the involvement of citizens' interests or even the idea of involving citizens more. I also take out the point of cooperation between the Courts of Auditors in Austria and then the important issue of the database of transparency. First point: It is also very important from my point of view to include the interests of citizens. The Court of Auditors should also show that it can be a close-to-citizen institution. I also believe that your appearances on the network or in the social media can really encourage people to introduce their own ideas for exam issues. Some have already come, as you have told us in committee. I think you might be able to strengthen this instrument a little bit – at least going to make it better known. If I look at the way in which it is adopted or used, I think there are some things to be done, because it is actually the case that the powerful citizen can do a lot to promote efficiency in this state, and perhaps has really good ideas for exam topics. A very important point for me is that the Court of Auditors is also working on its own efficiency. He does this by better coordinating cooperation with the national accounting authorities. This avoids double conductivity in the form of double tests et cetera. There is already a cooperation in various federal states in various examinations. I think that's very positive. Point three concerns my favorite topic, the transparency database. This is about feeding the entire funding system and the total amount of all the institutions – from the municipalities to the countries to the federal government. It is urgently necessary to move this forward. There was a report on this in November of 2017. Well, then, obviously, something has happened. The national conference has therefore decided to really try to convince the countries to feed this data. At that time, Upper Austria delivered once. The municipal government has expressed its support for the need for all the municipalities to feed their funding data. Finally, Lower Austria has also promised to feed the data from the summer of 2018. I am not now informed of the state of play with the rest of the federal states. It is important, however, that, in the coming time, most naturally in the course of 2018, it is possible to have a fully filled transparency database. A little bit more about reporting: I think it is positive that you have split up the reports, which means that we no longer have a thick bond with several reports. For us, it is now much easier and clearer to explore the topics. I would also like to say a little more about the impact of the examinations, Mr Knes said: Interesting is the efficiency of a total of 75 percent, which is not so bad. But he also went in the direction of 80 percent, you have to say that. So that's what I'd do to make sure you're back. attempts to move towards greater implementation of the recommendations. Interestingly, the federal government is the most negligent because 28 percent of recommendations are open in its area. Following this, the countries come with 23 percent of open recommendations. Very well are those of which we always say they are tested three times and four times, and in respect of which we are actually determined to allow further testing activity, namely the communities which on average have not implemented only 11 percent. It would be an exciting topic to highlight how those communities that are being examined by the Court of Auditors feel, because it is always said to the communities – but I do not think it is so – that they do not want them to tremble when the Court of Auditors comes. I do not think anyone needs to tremble because of the Court of Auditors, because the Court of Auditors is not a court of fraud, but a really efficient body that simply shows potential and says: Look, there's something you can save! – I find that very reasonable and also very important. It was also said that 65 reports were submitted to the National Council. These reports are the basis for recommendations and also the basis for the legitimate pressure of the President to implement these recommendations. One on the verge, Madam President: They have just delivered an opinion that the government parties should not give up by side, such as criticizing the ORF or withdrawing the non-smokers' law. As I said, the basis for the President to make recommendations is the reports. I can't remember that there has been a report on the withdrawal of the Non-Smoker Protection Act. Nor can I remember that there has been a report on criticism by representatives of government parties on the ORF. This is your private opinion, which I very much agree with you, but you do not have to express it in your capacity as President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a freely elected Member of this Republic, I am not allowed to say by the head of a National Council auxiliary body what political opinion I have to represent. It's the other way round: As Members of this House, we are defining what you and the Court of Auditors have to do, and that is how it should be, and so may it be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15206	Mrs Irmgard Griss is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15227	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' activity report shows that the Court of Auditors fulfils its tasks in an excellent manner in all areas where the legislator allows it to do so. I also think it is right that the President of the Court of Auditors is also something like the conscience of this nation and points out that if there are any shortcomings in how to deal with and resolve these abuses. There are three main areas where the Court of Auditors' powers are not sufficient to really examine and control. The first area to be covered here is the party law. Although the Court of Auditors receives the accounts of the parties, it is not entitled to: to review these accounts in terms of content. He has neither access nor other testing rights. He can only take note of these reports; and if he does not receive an account, he cannot do anything. There is no possibility of penalty. That's changed! It would be necessary to adapt the party law to these points – we have already submitted an application to that effect. The second area is the transparency database. I do not share this satisfactory and positive assessment by Mr Gahr. Ten years ago, the then Minister of Finance Pröll announced the establishment of a transparency database. I was there at this speech, and I remember the enthusiasm with which he presented this project. Today, ten years later, the Court of Auditors must be satisfied with its entry into the report: Upper Austria has already done something, Lower Austria also wants to do something, and the communities are probably ready to do so. – This is a poverty certificate, because information about the funding is necessary, especially for a government that wants to save – as it is called again and again – in the system. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Bißmann]] The third area where the Court's powers are not sufficient is the review of public undertakings. Mr Gahr mentioned this too and said that it was still not clear whether the Court of Auditors were going to have the airport Vienna may or may not. Why isn't that clear? – Because the law contains an undetermined legal concept, that of ‘real mastery’, and Parliament has not been able to get through to say quite clearly: If the federal government is involved with more than 25 percent – that would be international standard – then the Court of Auditors can examine. But this is the decision of the Constitutional Court, and it will take some time for it to be clarified. Parliament must be interested in examining how public goods and public assets are handled. That's why I'm saying: Thank you very much, Madam President of the Court of Auditors, for fulfilling its tasks so well. I also call on Parliament to do everything possible to enable the Court of Auditors to carry out its task in those areas which are still in deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15282	Next item is the report by Mr Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15303	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the It is very good that we can talk a little bit about the work of the Court of Auditors in parallel to the budget debate today, because I have looked at the Court of Auditors' budget – I am sorry, I am a little cold, as you hear it – and I have noticed that there is a slight increase, but not to the extent that it would require the Court of Auditors' work. [[Abg. Rosary: This is not a single fate!]] In my opinion, this is strange insofar as there is now a need to resort to setbacks, and I am therefore wondering whether we appreciate the Court of Auditors accordingly. It is clear to me that no one will question the need, the importance and the performance of this instrument, our instrument – individual criticism points are always available – but this budgeting is all the more surprising. This is also far from what I would like, namely the extension of the possible test fields to which I will come back later. If we really want to continue and prevent any kind of mismanagement, corruption, sloppyness, irregularities, painting of all kinds, then we must simply afford this control. It is certainly difficult to calculate what has been saved from money through the Court of Auditors' recommendations and the Court of Auditors' detection so far in the Republic, and how much this is in relation to small expenditure. If we are already in the recommendations: It is mentioned here again and again that the percentage of recommendations implemented is so high. I do not think this is so high, and above all I am giving reasons for the institutions and institutions examined why they do not comply with the recommendations, why they do not comply, which is more or less demanded by them. It is not true that the Court of Auditors is always right. It could well be that an institution says, for this and that reason is nonsense. However, the reasons are missing. It can't be that you just say it's not being implemented. But what is particularly important to me – and I mentioned this at the outset – is the extension of the test fields. We could invest even more. We could save ourselves even more money in the Republic by increasing the budgets and at the same time extending the audit fields, for example by examining the distributed institutions in which the Republic holds more than 25 percent shares. There's actually no reason why you shouldn't check it. There is also no reason why the small communities with less than 10,000 inhabitants should not be tested. [[Abg. Hammer: Be tested many times!]] – Yes, I know she's checking the national billing court, that's known to me. By the way, Lower Austria is an exception, where they are not tested. We also know, however, that the operational business and control business in the countries are often very close together. I can't quite understand why individual tests, sample-like tests would not produce a very good comparison of the federal states. It is quite interesting, because in the context of the additional benefits that come to the communities, i.e. social benefits, kindergartens, care and so on – it is becoming more and more – it would also be positive for these small communities if they could represent how difficult their tasks have become. I can already explain why they are not examined by the Federal Court of Auditors: because there are a lot of mayors sitting there who do not like to look at the cards. [[Abg. Hi?- Oh, my God!]] – Well, you'll be part of it if you first report. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] This is also the reason why the area – Mr Griss mentioned it – does not belong to the party law. So that the party finances are not examined, is extremely embarrassing for us. I don't know if that makes a slim foot in the public when we say we won't let ourselves be controlled. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I think there are still enough ways to save money by looking forward to nothing happening – money that we would urgently need for public services and social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15378	Mrs Mag.a Maria Smodics-Neumann is speaking on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15407	Madam President of the National Council! Madam President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! A warm servus to the viewers via TV and also over the Internet! Before I go into the actual part of my speech, which I have prepared for you, it is my concern to put something right here: Dear Dr.in Griss, I can correct you: The Court of Auditors is not the conscience of the nation, it is a test body and it has three things to examine: the economy, the economy and the effectiveness of a state-owned company. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In examining these companies, Madam President Kraker then made ten recommendations that are relevant to the positive development of Austria. It makes me incredibly proud that basically each of these recommendations is in the government program and thus on the To-do list. I would like to take one of these, which refers to site security through digitalization. In this context, I can address the training of skilled workers, namely those in the form of dual training – we know them as teaching. For me personally, on the one hand, as an entrepreneur who has trained apprentices himself, and on the other hand, as a concern for the business and craft sector, that is, the Vienna crafts and trades firm, which train most of Vienna apprentices, this topic is of course a matter of heart. Dual training is a training in which, in practice, the company is trained in a realistic way with the support of the vocational school in the theoretical field. She is an education – and I think it has been said in this house often, but I think it is quite, very important that we stress this over and over again, because we can be proud of it – to which we are envied worldwide. There is only one opportunity for the first speech in the House, and I would like to dedicate my first speech in the House to all those trainees who are engaged daily to pass on their knowledge and know-how to the young people in our country, thus also making dual apprenticeship training a guarantee against youth unemployment. – In this sense, I thank you very much for your commitment. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Vogl.]] In order for this enviable success model to remain such, it is of course necessary constantly to adapt content to the requirements of the market. Professions change, new teaching and also new teaching professions need to be created in order to picture reality. In this area, our Mrs Schramböck is already busily at work. In this rework of the teaching content, it will be particularly important that the word digitization should not be introduced for the word and for the purpose of self, but that it should be differentiated depending on the profession, what professions need, especially the craftsmanships, so that the quality can be maintained. You might imagine that a mechatronic has a different access to or use for digitization than, for example, a tailor, as I am. One needs it already in the production process, the other perhaps needs it as help in the administration or administration. If I now think of Professor Hengstschäger, the human geneticist, I can imagine how he found out at a lecture that it took about a hundred years ago, until the knowledge that could be generated dilates. Peel. Today we're at 24 hours. This means that our knowledge today has doubled until tomorrow. Digitalization enables us to also ask this knowledge and to acquire it for us. But what I really want to say with it: This is a sign that you do not need to replace old things with new ones, but that it has absolutely a right that, in addition to digitization or in addition to the digitalized world, traditional knowledge exists and, of course, must exist. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to invite all of you, those of you who are involved in the change, the enrichment of the teaching content, to link a truly sustainable package for our future professionals, according to the foreign exchange: Please not the same for everyone, but the right one for everyone! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15478	Now the President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs Dr.in Margit Kraker, has spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15499	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to start by thanking you for the intensive discussion and consultation we had in the Court of Auditors on the 2017 activity report. With the activity report, the Court of Auditors shall give an account of its work in the past year. I can assure you at this point that I am extremely interested in very good cooperation with all the political groups represented in the National Council during this legislative period and that the Court of Auditors' intention is to strengthen parliamentary control through audit reports. I can tell you that we set up a number of initiatives in the Court of Auditors in the past year 2017, and I allow myself to make a few points here. The first is that, as the Court of Auditors, we naturally have to pay attention to the common good and have therefore explicitly placed the interests of citizens at the centre of our views. We have developed a new test focus in the past year. This focus is intended to apply for the first time for three years and reads as follows: ‘Quality of public sector performance’ The focus of the Court of Auditors and the focus of its auditing work is on the benefit of citizens, the optimization of costs and the current performance of tasks of all public authorities. We will therefore address the following questions in the context of our audit activity: Is the quality of public services financed by means of taxes correct? Do the benefits actually come to the citizens? Are the benefits provided in modern form? In addition, we also allow ourselves to ask how innovative the public sector is in times of new social challenges. In this sense, we have for the first time also opened up the possibility for citizens to submit audit proposals and suggestions directly to the Court of Auditors via Facebook. There have been very many proposals which will be included in the examinations, in the examination work, or which will explicitly lead to direct examinations, because we have a mission, and this is our mission, that we should serve Parliament, that we should: audited bodies with qualified recommendations serve the citizens and, of course, we serve the citizens. And of course, Mr Zanger, there will again be this opportunity for citizens to get involved during this year. The second point is that, as President of the Court of Auditors of Austria – I call the Court of Auditors Austria, because we also have national accounting offices in Austria – it was also very important for us to work well in the whole sector of financial control, public financial control, and to continue to do so. I can say that from a side-by-side he became a close-up. There is an annual conference of the Courts of Auditors to coordinate the audit plans. We want to avoid double tests and we want to pool our resources. It is therefore also when audit orders from the Landtag to the National Court of Auditors are placed by the State Government to the Court of Auditors. Then what are we doing? – The control works together and returns a report, because the control is not divisible, but the control becomes better when it works together. This is also the case in the country of Carinthia, where we make a joint examination. The next point is that I have initiated a joint tester training. We have a university course Public Auditing, so all test institutions in Austria can complete the special basic training in the Court of Auditors. We are doing this in cooperation with the Economic University, and I can say that the ministries are also very interested in the internal revisions. As President of the Court of Auditors of Austria, I also, of course, work very strongly in the context of the Intosai network, because I am also Secretary-General of the Intosai. There are two priorities: We pay attention worldwide to the question: How is it about the independence of public financial control? And the second point is: What measures do the individual States take in order to actually implement the United Nations' sustainability objectives within the meaning of Agenda 2030? We have also started an examination. Third point: Ensuring the audit competences of the Court of Auditors. The subject of airport has already been addressed. – It is true that this is pending and will be brought back to the Constitutional Court, which is a matter of principle. This is not just a matter of Vienna Airport, but I want to know how the Constitutional Court interprets the question of “real mastery”. This is a formulation found by the National Council in 2009 when the Skylink question was open and when the Court of Auditors wanted to enable the examination. Now we are again facing the situation that, because the scatter was taken up by the hand of a private investor, we do not seem to have a test right. We want to know exactly, because there is a lot to be done in the field of testing competence, and of course, depending on how it works, we could find a clear legal solution. Auditing is the core business of the Court of Auditors. In 2017, we submitted 65 audit reports to the National Council as individual reports, and we carried out a total of 90 audits, including reports to the countries, to the countryside, and the federal accounts we draw up, the income report for public enterprises, which we have to produce every two years, the income report on the average income of the population and the activity report. At the beginning of this legislative period, we will also present the reports electronically. The task of drawing up the federal accounts is one of the special tasks of the Court of Auditors. We've got him until 30. In June, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation I have said that auditing is our core business, and then a debate has developed on whether the roles should not be more clearly separated, that the government should, so to speak, present the accounts and that the Court of Auditors should draw up the audit report. There is a joint working group from the budget service of this House, the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, because we also want to meet international standards. I hope that this legislative period will lead to a decision and possibly implementation towards a reform of the billing process. The subject of party law is a special task; the subject of accountability reports has been addressed. There is no original access and audit rights on the part of the Court of Auditors. I am just saying here that the OSCE has also returned a report in which it criticised this. An important project of this House – I am taking part in it as President of the Court of Auditors – concerns the renovation of the Parliament building. We have described this project in our activity report, and I have the honour of being present in the Building Committee; Madam President, Bures knows that too. Of course, I must say that the Court of Auditors does not take part in Parliament's decisions in the course of Parliament's reorganisation. He is there with a consultative voice and tries to bring in expertise he has from other construction tests, and we make examinations to each of the completed sub-divisions. We presented a test result last year, and that was the in-depth preliminary draft. I personally am of course convinced that this is a very important project for our democracy. As far as effectiveness is concerned, it should be said: On the one hand, there is the demand procedure and, on the other hand, the follow-up checks in which the Court of Auditors is actually questioning how the recommendations work. Based on our recommendations, of course, the Court of Auditors also sees itself as a driving force for genuine reforms in Austria, because we want to move forward with the reform process. It is about the implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations. The fact that more recommendations are being implemented at municipal level, of course, is also linked to the fact that the degree of complexity at federal level may be higher. Finally, I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors for their services. We have 311 staff and we have a women's quota, which is exemplary, which is 47.6 per cent and at section management level and representative level at 50 per cent. [[General condolences.]] I owe it to the staff that there are good audit reports and that the institution of the Court of Auditors can enjoy high confidence. I can assure you that we are working hard in the Court of Auditors and that we are always interested in developing ourselves constantly. The Court of Auditors' budget will be discussed in the context of the budget debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15600	Thank you, Madam President. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-73 of the supplements. Whoever expresses his support, I ask him for a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. Accepted. [[19:42:26]] 19. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report on the outcome of its collection of average income and supplementary pension benefits in the years 2015 and 2016 in the case of federal undertakings and bodies subject to its control (in the series 2017/1) (III-60 and III-60/28 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15649	We're coming to the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Johann Singer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15679	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors shall submit every two years a report on the income of those undertakings and bodies of the Federal Government subject to the audit of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors therefore fulfils a constitutional mandate. We are now discussing the report on the years 2015 and 2016; The data are based on around 400 companies and facilities. Unfortunately, I have to say that the criticisms of the last report are more or less one-to-one also transferable to this report, but there are also some positive aspects to be reported. The average income of employees increased more between 2013 and 2016 than that of the Boards and Managing Directors. In this case, the increase was 1.9 per cent, with employees as a percentage of 5.1 per cent; in my view, it was a good development. The income of the employees increased higher than that of the residents in the chief days, with the last reports mostly reversed. On average, in 2016 the board of directors earned three times more than the employees, in 2014 it was four times more. This figure too, from my point of view, is positive, it reflects parallel development. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to say that the situation of women in the chief days has not improved. On the one hand, the proportion of women in the governing bodies has increased from 19.6 to just 20.1 percent in the last four years. This actually means a standstill in meeting the demand for more women in leadership positions. On the other hand, the income of female board members is in no way comprehensible. It accounted for only 78.2 percent of the average of male colleagues. In other words, we are still far away from the implementation of the demand for equal pay for equal performance in the management systems. On the other hand, the situation among the supervisory councils is encouraging. In 2013, only 25.4 percent of supervisory boards were female, it is 28.1 percent in 2016. This is not intoxicating. But at least about 10 percent more than the Boards and Managing Directors. Indeed encouraging is the development of average rates. If in 2013 women in supervisory councils still earned 77.6 percent of their male counterparts, it was already 94.1 percent after annual increases from 5 to 6 percent in 2016. This increase leads us to say that we have reached 100 percent today. – That would be very nice, I hope the next report of the Court of Auditors will prove it. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is simply embarrassing that it is still not a matter of course today that the same remuneration is paid for the same performance. However, the average remuneration of supervisory councils proves that such an approximation can also succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15736	Next speaker: Mr Wolfgang Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15761	Madam President. We are now negotiating an important item on the agenda, namely those on average income in Austria. In fact, it can be said that 220 000 people who work in close-to-state businesses have an average earnings of 53 000 euros per year – my previous speaker has already mentioned it – that has been a total of 5.3 percent increase – and if you use the Board of Directors with 1.9 percent increase in comparison, it looks rather lapidar at the first moment, but if you read this report more accurately, you can see, of course, where the sheath is going apart. My previous speaker, Mr Singer, said that women are severely disadvantaged, that they are still very disadvantaged. We know that those women who do the same activities as men have the same professional activity, the same performance, the same number of hours, currently have 78.2 percent of the income of their colleagues, namely the men. That is why we must work unisono and party-independently to close this sheer faster than thought. I also ask the government to step up the process accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You got it in your hand now, dear FPÖ, dear ÖVP! When, if not now? You will receive our consent. However, there is a advertising drop – and this is also seen in this report, and this is more than muttering – if certain board members, namely those of Post AG, who earn up to 1.9 million euros a year, while their staff earn a maximum of 30 000 euros gross a year, if these managers then stand behind their staff with the stopwatch - - – I am talking about Post AG, colleague, watch out or read the report! [[Abg. Rädler: What was at the ÖBB?]] [[Abg. Loacker: Forced retirements of postal staff...!]] If these board members are after the postal staff with the stopwatch and say that they are no longer efficient, and always refer to a listed corporate structure, I do not understand the world anymore as the works council, because 30 000 euros compared to 1.9 million euros – that is more than embarrassing! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Noll.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: You don't understand anything anyway!]] The Federal Forests – ÖVP-laugh – do not bring any woman to the Board of Directors, and here we always measure these positions by the wages or salary of a Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor – we all know – receives the horning payment of 304 000 euros in the year. [[Abg. New builder: Like Mr. Kern!]] The whole population is more impenetrable. The Board of the Federal Forests, at least with six persons, deserves to say and write 400 000 euros a year – with six men occupied! We know what they have left for their employees who work outside the forest. The stream is her fridge and at the same time her shower – that's how it works. Dear ÖVP, keep doing this and you will be punished! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15892	Next speaker: Mrs Dr.in Jessi Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15913	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For the 2017 income report, 400 companies and institutions of the federal government were reviewed for the years 2015 and 2016, data on 220 000 employees, 1 640 Supervisory Board members, 650 members of board and management were collected. It is striking that the proportion of women in boards and management, as my previous speakers have mentioned, has grown only to a very small extent. It is even more striking, however, that the income of female board members averaged only 78 percent of their male colleagues. The proportion of women in supervisory councils has increased from around 27 percent to 28 percent, and it is also striking that women receive only 94 percent of that of their male colleagues. Equal pay for equal work, this principle is not entirely fulfilled, because it is a matter of whether women are in these functions, but a second thing that if they are there, they deserve less than men. This is in addition to where the state itself is the owner. Private companies require that a certain proportion of women are to be represented in supervisory boards and boards, but in the public sector, what is prescribed by private companies is obviously not respected. There is discrimination in the state sector in both directions, even men are discriminated against, as the case of a man in the Ministry of Transport shows. He didn't get the job of a section manager because he's a man. He has successfully complained about it and got it right. The Federation now has to repay 320,000 euros to the man in transition, the total income that has been lost to him by the wrong occupation, which is a costly abuse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Discrimination therefore occurs everywhere, also in companies and institutions of the federal government and even in ministries, and that under years of SPÖ Chancellorship. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] On the other hand, the government programme of the new Federal Government clearly states that there must be equal pay for equal work and equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market. Further measures are needed to reduce the disadvantages of women, especially in the income sector. This would then be a real equality for women who are more helpful than unnecessary gender. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is therefore a need for action, ladies and gentlemen, and one can hope that the next income report of the Court of Auditors will show improvements.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e15989	Mr Eßl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16013	Madam President. Mr Knas has just said – Knes, excuse me! – that there are six board members in the Austrian Federal Forests, and these are all men. [[Calls:Knes]] The fact is that there are two board members of the Austrian Federal Forests.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16071	Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker is now speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16096	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors. High house! The Court's income report always brings many interesting figures. We have looked more closely at the special and supplementary pensions in the state units and in the close-to-state establishments: In total, 555 million euros are spent each year on ex-employees in the state sector. Of course, the national bankers come to mind first, but this is too short. This starts with the agricultural market Austria Marketing and goes through the association, the Energie AG Oberösterreich to the ORF and the Asfinag: If you buy an AMA cut when you turn on the light at home when you press for the GIS fee when you pick up a vignette for the car, always finance fat extra pensions with, valued spectators! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, I find the 4 458 supplementary pensions in the pension insurance institution particularly disgusting. The citizens are being preached, the pensions are safe and, of course, there is no need for reform – as we have heard today – but the gentlemen about the pensions themselves can enjoy beautiful supplementary pensions at the pension insurance institution. The average ASG-pension is EUR 1 200, the average supplementary pension at the pension insurance institution is EUR 1 343. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] You can think that's fair, but we believe that's document for a scrapped system. But it's even worse – before Mr. Rädler is happy that I'm taking the reds into the eye – in farm insurance. The average farmer's pension is about 800 euros, but the additional pension of the employees of the SVB is 1 284 euros. The small farmers are allowed to burn so that the equipment in the SVB can carry a thick pension home. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Noll.]] Social security is a system of redistribution, from poor to rich. The red and black partygoers put the money in their pockets and the citizens are allowed to pay for it. In many of the approved units, even these pensions still rise. If Rudi were still here, he would tell me all these are outlet models – but that's not true! The Court of Auditors indicates every year where reforms would be possible, where cuts would be possible, but nothing happens. Red and black protect the party gangs and the FPÖ sees her people get the fastest where the money can be deducted. That's why nothing happens.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16162	Next speaker: Mr Dr Wolfgang Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16183	For me, in connection with the income report of public servants, there is a topic that really screams to heaven, which is the exorbitant salaries of the executive directors. [[Abg. Rädler: Peter is in Alpbach!]] We find them in all areas, Mr Knes has called the Federal Forest, but we can list all possible areas. I am now concentrating on the cultural sector, since I have been criticizing exactly the case for 15 years – that is the period since the Federal Museums have been distributed. At this time, nothing has changed, no matter if they were black or red ministers, ministers, no matter what government group. Everyone has always promised, it has to change, and nothing has changed. There are always top riders, this time it is the director of the Technical Museum in Vienna, who with 300 000 euros of total income is very close to the salary of the Federal Chancellor. The interesting thing about this is that these amounts are achieved, as premiums and anniversary grants are still being added. For me, there is already the question of what these premiums need in this area, if the salaries are already so high and above all so high so that these executive functions are to be exercised to the best of knowledge and conscience. I can't say, If you really do it the way we would like it, namely, according to best knowledge and conscience, then you will get another premium. This is somehow not quite informative and it has never been possible to explain to me why improvements in the program or an increase in the number of visitors still have to be paid extra. It is also incredibly difficult to explain this to the workers of the Federal Museums who have been waiting for a collective agreement for 15 years. It is also incredibly difficult to explain to them why the directors in similar museums in Europe earn less, for example in Prado in Madrid 160 000 euros or in the Tate Gallery in London 120 000 euros or in Louvre 150 000 euros a year. The Deutsche Museum in Munich has 1.5 million visitors, the Technical Museum about 300,000 visitors, and also from the surface the Deutsche Museum is about five times larger than the Technical Museum, but the director of the German Museum in Munich receives 100 000 euros in the year. Now explain to the approximately 2,500 employees in the federal museums why they still don't get a collective contract! Where is the GOOD, the Trade Union of Public Service? Why do the leading members of the GÖD sit in the Supervisory Boards of the museums and what do they do there? – I would really be interested. In any case, they do not represent the interests of the employees, otherwise there would have been a collective contract for a long time. [[Congratulations on the list of mushrooms.]] Where's the Social Democracy? Why does social democracy not lead to collective agreements? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Maybe you have a selective perception?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] Why has this not been successful so far? – I think there is still a lot to do. [[President Kitzmüller shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the Court of Auditors, everyone nods and says: Yeah, yeah, that's where we finally need to change the salaries. Even in the Cultural Committee – should there ever be one in this legislative period – all will nod, but nothing will happen. In any case, we stay on it – stay on it too! .....................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16261	Mrs Kirchbaumer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16283	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! The Court of Auditors' income report provides every two years information on the average annual income, including all social and physical benefits in the federal enterprises and institutions. In 2015 and 2016, this was 397 and 403 companies and institutions with 217 443 and 219 766 employees in the reporting period respectively. The number of employees has increased by about 4.7 percent since 2013. Average income rose by 5.1 percent over the same period, from around 50 800 to 53 400 euros. Pension benefits have also increased by 5.6 percent from 2013 to 2016, from 525.50 million to 553.36 million euros. From 2013 to 2016, the proportion of women in supervisory councils rose from 25.4 percent to 28.1 percent. However, this has to be said positively, the average remuneration of female supervisory councils has increased sharply in this period, from 73.1 percent to 94.1 percent. Worse is the share of women in the executive board or the management. This amounted to 20.1 percent and 20.5 percent in 2015 and 2016. In comparison, the proportion of women in 2013 and 2014 was 19.6 percent and 20.3% respectively. Women's board members are also worse in incomes, and in 2016 their average incomes were only 78.5% of their male colleagues' incomes. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to stress here once again that these are figures of the salaries of the institutions, the undertakings of the federal government. The federal government has an exemplary effect on the private sector. However, I would like to stress at this point that statistics Austria estimates the wage difference between men and women at 13.6 percent. It is not too much to demand here that the federal government fulfil its role as a model and take an example of the private sector. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16325	Mrs Becher has now been reported to the House. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16346	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The great discrepancy between men and women in the incomes of members of the board of directors has been sufficiently noted. However, the report also shows average salaries for each company. These are different, but there are some who are very well-educated. For example, I call the ARE where men earn an average of 80 900 euros and women 64 000 euros per year. So here too – and this is to be demonstrated by the bank in the individual companies – it shows that the sheer is far too wide open, definitely up to a quarter. However, the report does not measure income by income class. This would be very interesting for social policy, since of course the lower incomes would be extra. Why am I interested? – In general, salaries develop along the inflation rate and housing costs are decoupled from the inflation rate. Of course, it is not a problem for a board director to pay higher housing costs, but for those involved in the lower incomes, of course, this is a big problem. – The report does not reveal anything about that. Rents in the private sector are huge and rents are not based on inflation. The government has nothing to do with this. Instead of providing cheap rents, no intervention is made. I can only say: Overcome your ideological scams and make sure you rent less for the working population!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16377	Mrs Nussbaum is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16398	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court's income report is an important tool for policy. It is therefore important because it is an indicator of wage fairness in the public economy. What we need to read is embarrassing. Some previous speakers have already highlighted clearly and I cannot get tired of repeating it again: Only every fifth person in the chief's day is a woman. Today, in 2018, women still have to break a hard glass ceiling to fight up. We are not yet talking about the private sector, but about companies on which the Republic of Austria has significant influence. If a woman has finally made it to the board of directors or to the board of directors and for the first time has been present with the salary lists, then she has to find that she herself is not equal to the men. Women still earn only 80 percent of that of their male colleagues. We therefore call for income transparency, the openness of the salaries of women and men, so that they can actually be seen. Only in this way can the wage shears be closed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to lose one word on social security: Self-management is repeatedly criticised by the Federal Government that the structure of the local health telephone can no longer be afforded. To this end, I would like to say the following: Look Once again, you will receive the chief posts which will be awarded in the companies of the federal states! Look at what the managing directors and board of directors deserve there, there you are at a multiple of what self-government costs! Call your country icons! Stop that when it's really about saving in the system! [[Abg. Rosary: But I don't have the number from the emperor!]] [[Further call to the FPÖ.]] But it is not about saving you, but about attacking the social state and self-government. Then at least be so honest and admit that!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16447	The President of the Court of Auditors has now spoken. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16468	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot about the income report, and I do not want to do anything more repeatedly now, but to present some of the structure of the income report here. With the income report, we comply with our legal mandate to report every two years on the average income and additional benefits for pensions for companies and institutions in the public sector of the federal government. We have this report for the years 2015 and 2016 on the 15th. It was presented to the Hohe Haus on 1 December 2017. The income report is thus limited to public enterprises of the federal government and does not include other public enterprises such as other local authorities. I would also like to point out that the data come from the audited bodies themselves, which were prepared by the Court of Auditors and presented in a tabular form. The aim of this report is to provide a regular and comprehensive overview of the incomes of these companies and institutions of the federal government. As the Court of Auditors, however, we do not judge the level of income. In addition to the pure presentation of average income, we analyse the data transmitted, and we have done the following: We have analysed the average income in the above-average industries in 2013 to 2016, the distribution of average income in the above-average sectors between 2013 and 2016 and the average income in individual relevant sectors. To this end, we have also presented vivid graphics in the summary of the income report. To sum up, I just want to say the individual data: In 2016, the survey – I just call the last year – referred to 403 companies and institutions. Average income for board members, management per full-time equivalent was 210 000 euros, average income for employees per VZÄ at 53 400 Euro, the women's share at the management and management level at 20.5 percent – which is only very moderate – the average income of the female board members as a percentage of the average salary of male colleagues at 78.5 percent. The proportion of women in supervisory councils was 28.1 percent. As far as the Supervisory Board remuneration of female Supervisory Board members is concerned, it amounts to 94.1 per cent of the male. In 2016, additional benefits for pensions amounting to EUR 555.05 million were provided. I believe that, as political decision-makers, this report provides you with a comprehensive work on public enterprises of the federal government, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16519	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is now no mention of this. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-60 and III-60 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who take note of this report to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. Thank you. [[20:13:45]] 20. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2015/11 (III-1/29 d.b.) 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2015/12 (III-2/30 D.B.) 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2015/14 (III-3/31 d.b.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2015/17 (III-4/32 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16594	We now come to points 20 to 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16621	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As we just heard We are discussing a lot of reports from the Court of Auditors on these items of the agenda. I've chosen one that's been behind for a while, but from my point of view is still very, very up-to-date: This is about VAT fraud at European level. A working group, a network called Eurofisc, was set up at European level to combat this VAT fraud. Austria, of course, has representatives in this working group, and it was the task of the Court of Auditors to examine exactly the contribution of Austria to this Eurofisc group. Maybe for the statement of concept: How does VAT fraud arise? – Explainedly, this works like this: The company A exports a product to the company B. There is no VAT in cross-border transport. The company B then sells the product to a company C in the respective country. Here, of course, a VAT burden arises for the buying company, and the selling company asserts the pre-tax. The problem is that there is a different period of time between the maturity of the advance tax and the maturity of VAT. The company, which is tax debtor, disappears from the market, the taxpayer is no longer tangible, the product is returned to country A, and the carousel starts from the front. Knowing that is very important. It is also worth mentioning that the Court of Auditors has examined cross-border, there has been cooperation here with Germany and Hungary. I would like to expressly mention the positive role of the Court of Auditors in this report. The Court of Auditors has two main tasks: firstly, control, but also consultation. The report sets out very clear guidelines, recommendations on how to put them in place here, particularly in the context of this cooperation: It is about a uniform reporting system, it is about the efficient design of the reports, it is about a uniform data base, it is about IT support, but of course it is also about a uniform documentation. The conclusions of the report are as follows: Fighting tax fraud in cross-border workers Of course, transport can only happen in European cooperation. I think that is the main statement of the report – and also the special feature of Eurofisc. And that's what I'd like to mention: This is not about bilateral negotiations, it is about multilateral. 24 countries in the European Union work together here and make a very important contribution to the fight against tax fraud. Here the Court of Auditors has been very advised and has made a very important contribution to the fight against tax fraud. I believe that this is a common concern, and there is certainly consensus in the house. I would also like to mention on this occasion that the issue of tax policy will now be a very large one for the Austrian Presidency in the second half of the year. This concerns, for example, the digital economy, the question: How can we make digital companies so to speak, where value creation happens? The European Commission has made proposals on this issue today: 3 percent of turnover as a Quasi pre-profit tax. However, it is also about the harmonization of corporate tax, for example, and, of course, VAT. Finally, thanks to the Court of Auditors for this report, it is a very valuable contribution to the fight against international tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16671	I call Mr Plessl. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16693	Dear President of the National Council! President of the Court of Auditors! My dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I have also chosen a report from the Court of Auditors, which has been a long time ago. First of all, I would like to thank you very much, Madam President, for the opportunity to discuss the future reports here in a timely manner. This report was discussed in the Committee in 2015 and is now in plenary session. That is why this is very important, and a thank you to the Court of Auditors here in Parliament, but also to you that in future we can deal with the reports here in plenary in a timely manner. This report from 2015 includes the results of the audit concerning the Niederösterreichische Grenzlandförderungsgesellschaft m.b.H., a very critical report. This Border Country Funding Company It was established in 1975 to support and promote the region along the Czechoslovak border, i.e. the forest and wine district areas. At that time, Chancellor Kreisky and the head of state Maurer managed to build a society to provide support in the social, economic and cultural sphere of the communities, but of course also for entrepreneurs. There are some examples here where we see that an initiative by this Ges.m.b.H. e.g. the programme “Strengthening regional competitiveness in Lower Austria 2007–2013”. A total of over 800 projects were implemented and around 11 000 jobs were created. Investments amounting to more than one billion have been triggered. Unfortunately, the documentation has been very bad, so we have also had problems with making an assignment. In conclusion, one more thing: There is also a need for a discussion between representatives of the Ministry of Transport and also of the State of Lower Austria in order to promote a reorientation here. I would have the wish or request to the Federal Government, but also to the State of Lower Austria, that these funds, these 14.5 million euros, are jointly made available to the municipalities and companies in the border regions of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16726	Mrs Lintl is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16747	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Hanger, has already referred to the Eurofisc report, and I would like to add a few details. According to careful estimates, EU Member States escape more than 50 billion euros annually due to VAT fraud. The revelations of Paradise Papers have shown how assets and businesses bypass EU VAT rules. Of course, VAT fraud funds are also used to finance criminal and terrorist organisations. Now I'm up to date: ==References== In November 2017, the European Commission reported on new common instruments against VAT fraud. Some of the most important measures are: The aim is to strengthen cooperation between national tax authorities and law enforcement authorities on the basis of mutual trust. Eurofisc is given new powers to coordinate cross-border investigations in order to better review cross-border deliveries. There is an exchange of data relating to VAT fraud with European law enforcement agencies such as Europol, Olaf and the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Under the new rules, tax and customs authorities in all Member States will exchange information on imports of goods into the EU. Eurofisc officials are given access to the vehicle registration data of all Member States, and this is particularly important, ladies and gentlemen, because the different VAT treatment of new and used cars makes the vehicle trade particularly vulnerable and the most widespread type of fraud. By exchanging these data, VAT fraud will be much more effective in combating it. It is precisely the fight against tax fraud and tax avoidance that we are implementing in the framework of our government programme by proposing international tax shifts, especially in the online field, and by reforming the VAT law, we are calling for the fight against carousel fraud. The Court of Auditors notes that: “The Eurofisc network is a completely new instrument to strengthen and simplify cooperation between tax administrations.” Eurofisc is “a successful example of joint efforts within the EU”. Thank you for the report, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16793	Mrs Griss is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16814	Madam President. Madam President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! If someone is unlawfully and guiltyly causing a damage, then he must replace him. But there is a group of people for whom this does not apply to this level, which are more equal than the same, and these are ministers. It is almost never the case that ministers for damages they cause to the Federation are subject to civil law. Among the reports that the Court of Auditors took note of was also the report on the Hypo Alpe-Adria – a matter which was extensively examined. However, it is not known that any of the responsible claims for damages had been filed. Why is that so? – The reason is not that we have no legal provision. We have an organ liability law. We have provisions on legal claims in the Office Liability Act. In the field of private administration, damages are liable under the provisions of civil law. Nevertheless, it is almost never possible for such claims to be asserted. What's the reason? - Where there is no complainant, there is no judge. There is no one there who asserts these claims, although, of course, there is an obligation to do so. a minister who does not assert such claims, such as against an official, is also responsible for criminal liability if such claims are justified. I therefore believe that there is a need to do something here, and I therefore put forward a motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The Court of Auditors would be an institution capable of doing so, and then it would be ensured that there is not a group that is more equal than the same, and that people cannot say, well, one crow does not hack out of the other's eye. Thank you. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[20:26]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16914	The request by Mr Griss, colleagues, has just been supported and is therefore under negotiation. Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16939	Madam President. Madam President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, I am also entitled, as colleague Plessl, to discuss the subject of Lower Austrian Border Country Promotion Society. ==References== As already reported, it was founded in 1975, owners were land and government, represented by BMVIT. There have been many consultations for communities, for companies, and so many projects could only arise because there has been this support. The Court of Auditors then concluded in the course of an audit 2015 that this company would actually be dissolved. Various synergies have been created with federal institutions and other funding institutions in the country through changes in framework conditions. For example, the ecoplus advises various communities and companies in Lower Austria and makes an excellent job. Following the Court of Auditors report, a letter was sent to the country and it was then appropriate to clarify how this society could be dissolved. A letter was sent to Minister Stöger with proposals for solutions. Unfortunately, this remained unanswered for a long time, but a close year later a positive joint approach was found with Federal Minister Klug, and employees were provided for talks. Only now – and that was only in December 2017 – did a It was decided to continue the process. In an extraordinary general meeting of the Lower Austrian Border Country Promotion Society m.b.H. The resolution was decided on 19.3. of this year, i.e. two days ago. That means that it actually took a very long time for the whole thing to be completed. Nevertheless, as a long-standing mayor of a community in the Waldviertel, I can stress once again how challenging and difficult it is to design many things and projects, for example, compared to the Ballage Centres. At this point, however, I would like to thank all the employees of the Border Country Funding Society very much, of course also our State Councillor Petra Bohuslav, who has worked professionally with all those involved and has chosen a good course. I can thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Without them, many projects would not have been created in the forest and in the wine district. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e16987	Mr Preiner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17008	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In my remarks, I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the subject of the Federal and Länder' operational environmental promotions. The report was debated at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets in May 2016, so it can be said that almost two years ago. I believe that this has been a very long time since this committee meeting. I would therefore like to refer the matter back to committee in a more timely manner to deal with the reports which are being discussed in the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen. In the field of operational environmental promotions, there are several funding rails, such as thermal building renovations, solar and photovoltaic plant renovations and district heating connections. The support programmes were mainly used by small and medium-sized enterprises, interestingly mainly by tourism companies. A total volume of around 50 million euros per year was available for this purpose. The funding has been granted by the EU, the Federal Government, the Länder and the Communities. The Court of Auditors has noted in this respect – which was actually a form of criticism, which I join in – that there was no overall overview of the grants granted. There was a lack of transparency, there were double and multiple promotions, which, of course, also led to an overwhelming bureaucracy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! They said a few days ago that the new Federal Government should not deal with side-by-side matters, but should finally get into the process. I would, of course, like to fully endorse this statement, but also point out that your predecessor, former President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser, has always expressed his support for greater transparency, red tape and, of course, for multiple funding. As a member of the Federal Government, I think he now has the opportunity to implement this and, above all, to fight against multiple support in the agricultural sector. On this point, of course, we very much agree with the adoption of this report. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17051	Mr Lettenbichler has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17072	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Preiner, please do not worry about Minister Moser. He has presented a very ambitious programme, which he will implement in the next few years, and we, the coalition partner and we, are willing to have a lot of big throws here. [[Abg. Drozda: When?]] The best evidence was today, after 93 days, a double budget that will give us a surplus of 500 million euros in 2019. That's real politics, that's what you can measure us for. We will move great things in this Republic, you can be sure. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] On the report that I am allowed to deal with myself: You know that the Court of Auditors, as a control body for the conduct of the federal, state and local authorities, has made a number of useful recommendations with its report and, in particular, with the statements on the operational environmental promotions of the Federal Government and the countries in very important areas. Now there are a lot of individual talks going on here, I may say. We would have deserved a little more attention too later! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – Over there is the inconsistency. [[pointing toward SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Drozda.]] So again: The problem raised primarily by the Court of Auditors is that in the field of operational environmental promotion at federal and national level there are several aids for the same funding objectives and objects in parallel. It is therefore only the logical consequence that this will cause the administration and the administration to be burdened to an excessive extent and increase the risk of inappropriate and undue parallel funding. Due to the complex calculation of funding even for the Court of Auditors, it was not always possible to calculate the extent of concrete support from the numerous funding programmes. However, the report also shows that the determination of a joint resolution body, i.e. the use of synergies and the reduction of administrative burden, was a step in the right direction. It also requires a uniform categorisation of funding and a uniform terminology for equal funding areas in order to make a significant increase in transparency and to achieve the image of support on information platforms. The Federal Government, together with the coalition parties, has agreed that we want to complete the division of competence and ensure that the tasks are properly distributed with clear interfaces. – That's how it should be and that's how it will be. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17129	Mr Lindinger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17155	Madam President. President of the Court of Auditors. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery, in front of the televisions and via live stream! I am glad that I am able to hold my first plenary here in the House today. [[Accompaniment with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the abg. Rendi-Wagner.]] The Austrian Federal Budget is linked, among other things, to the budget of the European Union. ==References== On the agenda of April 2016 in the Court of Auditors of the EU Financial Report. This financial report presented a comprehensive reference work on the EU budget. He was the last report on the period from 2007 to 2013. The aim of the report is to increase transparency in the overall payments of the EU and the Austrian classification in the EU budget. As a representative of the rural region, I see the development in the expenditure of the Agricultural Fund as very positive. Our family farms in Austria guarantee security of supply and produce high-quality and inexpensive food for consumers in our country. They also need appropriate compensation from public resources. Our target-oriented programmes in Austria are very successful, whether they are the mining programme, the environmentally-friendly management or the preservation of our cultural landscape. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In addition, it is necessary to secure the funds for the common agricultural policy, particularly in the case of Brexit. I would like to say here that the negotiations of the common agricultural policy are about the existence of our agricultural and forestry family farms. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] But it is also about jobs in our regions, about strengthening rural areas with all its diversity and with all the people living there. That's what we're working for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with the budget speech presented today, the Minister of Finance has set the course for a good, sustainable future and has thus also answered the challenges in the future. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Gudenus.]] Allow me to hold one here: Our Federal Government has been in office for 93 days and is working on the implementation of the government programme for just as long. The double budget presented today is a visible part of this excellent work for the people of our country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] In the coming months, negotiations will be held on the budget of the European Union for the next few years. At the same time, intensive discussions will be held. For me, one thing is quite clear: We are committed to simplification, we are fighting for every cent for our family businesses. These negotiations require a strong voice – a strong voice for the people of the rural regions, a strong voice for our farmers and, above all, a strong voice for all those who stand up for our society on a daily basis. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] We as ÖVP are part of this great, strong voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17255	No one is reporting on this. The debate is thus closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-1 of the supplements. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of taking note of it, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Griss, colleagues, on the preparation of a draft law on the liability of politicians. If you agree with this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-2 of the supplements. If you take note of him, I ask him for a sign of approval. - That's the unanimity. Thank you. Let us now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-3 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who do so to give a sign of approval. - That's the unanimity. - Thank you many times. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-4 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. - That's accepted. Thank you. [[20:42:37]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (7D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border persecution of traffic offences affecting road safety (41 e.g.) 25. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (8D.B._Other Organiser Administrative and Technical Convention on the Convention between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Bulgaria Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on facilitating the cross-border persecution of road safety offences at risk of road traffic (42 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17372	We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kumpitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17399	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Hand at heart: Who has not ever been annoyed by the fact that, for example, he was overtaken on a highway by a traffic rowy with a vehicle with a foreign mark at a high speed? – The fact is that there has been an increase in traffic offences in Europe in recent years, committed by drivers of foreign-labelled vehicles. About 1 million out of about 5 million traffic crimes are committed annually in Austria by foreign-marked vehicles. [[Abg. Scherak: That's a lot!]] It is indeed true that Austria has been committed for decades to ensuring that it comes to agreements, so that foreign rulers can also be held responsible to the same extent as domestics. In 2015, Austria implemented the EU Directive 413, which means that an exchange of information between EU Member States is possible in the event of offences affecting traffic. Despite this, it is still difficult to carry out such procedures, and in my capacity as a transport and justice officer, I often had to experience how such procedures could only be stopped. The reasons for this were diverse. On the one hand, it was not possible, for example, to issue a criminal decision, in other cases, one has to say openly and honestly, the Contracting State was not willing to take any action. With these agreements, which are now being decided, we are once again one step further, and the Convention on Official Assistance contains four main points. These relate to the analysis of the handlebars, they concern the delivery of documents, they concern the identification of the official address of delivery and, ultimately, the enforcement of decisions, and that is important! – whenever the authority of the country in which the offence was committed could not, so to speak, contact the handlebar or approval owner or any responsible person. The essential and now further point now is that, as it were, the Contracting State in which the handlebar or the suspect is located, is actively taking administrative action, i.e. it is intended to play an active role. In technical terms, it will be possible to deal with electronic interoperable traffic. That is to say, there is a secure network of authorities through which the States can send requests to each other or serve a contact point. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that these are sensible and reasonable contracts that we can certainly support.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17434	Mr Einwallner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17460	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! As my previous speaker said, these agreements are intended to improve the cross-border persecution of traffic offences. These agreements allow for the effective persecution of traffic offenders and the automatic retrieval of registration data from foreign road users and vehicle owners. These agreements are particularly important and crucial if the car owners abroad do not meet their payment obligations, and it will finally be shown, Minister Kickl, whether the estimates of the Ministry of the Interior are also true, that there will be almost 2 million euros that will be added to the Federal budget. From our side there is in any case agreement to these three agreements which are concluded. Since it is not true that there are many unanimous or likely unanimous votes in the area of the interior, please allow me a final sentence on today, ladies and gentlemen. From the Federal Government so often became this 93. The day of this federal government. Ladies and gentlemen, you can look at it from any side of it, but you, Mr Minister, have managed in the interior resort to create uncertainty in not even 93 days through a very unprofessional procedure, and this corresponds also to those first 93 days of this federal government – and you do not have to be proud of that. [[Call the FPÖ:Na go!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, there is, of course, our consent to these agreements concerning the persecution of traffic offences, but one must not be proud of these first 93 days.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17530	Mr Amon is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17552	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! This agreement between Hungary, Bulgaria, Croatia and Austria, which I hope we will adopt unanimously, is a good one. It is no longer much to say, because Mr Kumpitsch has really explained this in all the details. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Light peace.]] I have hoped that Mr Einwallner will leave at least one point to me, namely that this agreement will bring some EUR 2 million of revenue to the Ministry of the Interior, and that is a welcome one. That is why it is a good agreement. By the way, Mr Einwallner: The last sentences in the end could have been saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17585	Mrs Hochstetter-Lackner has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17611	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is now up to me, as my previous speaker said, to see what remains of this point, what can still be said and what needs to be said. Let's just look at what the three gentlemen forgot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Erasim: Juhu!]] In any event, we from SPÖ have repeatedly said that we will certainly not stand in the way of reasonable projects and reasonable decisions. For this reason, we will also give our consent to the State contracts submitted. In terms of content, as you know, it is a matter of ensuring effective prosecution of those states' road users. But what does that mean vice versa? – This means that possible errors of Austrians in the said countries do not go unanswered either. It is clear that this agreement must not be a miracle in terms of traffic behaviour. However, it will certainly contribute to a certain improvement in road safety. The feeling of injustice that has already been addressed today, which we ourselves often perceive, for example, if we are overtaken by a Hungarian citizen or a Hungarian-labelled driver at a hundred-year-old limit at a slightly faster speed, this inequality treatment will be remedyed. In summary, it is an important step which will also intensify the cooperation of the security authorities of those countries. It is important to me that, in this context, very clear data protection provisions exist, are followed and that their compliance is also monitored. Mr Minister, I wish that in contrast to the BAT and many other examples and scandals of the past months, there would be no gap. International cooperation on the level of intelligence has suffered enough in recent times, I think. [[Abg. New builder: That's it!]] So it would be nice if Austria were to make an exemplary progress in this area at least. In this context, I must also point out that what we are going to decide today only works if traffic controls are actually carried out in a complete manner. In principle, the plans of Minister Hofer to reduce traffic monitoring, in detail the speed controls, are already based on a difficult idea, and they are no longer comprehensible to me in connection with today's decision. Of course, I can imagine that the Minister is often annoyed by tempo limits or tempo controls, just as Mr Vice-Kanzler Strache is likely to be annoyed by the ban on smoking. We must not forget what this item on the agenda means for us: Tempo limits, ladies and gentlemen, are rules that make sense. Either we stick to it and we control its compliance or we do it away and say we have a rule-free road system. Everything else would just be a farce. Rules such as tempo restrictions also mean the saving of human lives. To all of us sitting here, every accident must be one too much, and we must do everything we can so that nothing happens and not go through Austria with horror. So, Minister of the Interior Kickl and Minister of Transport Hofer, take on responsibility in the future and move forward with a good example! Since I am the last speaker reported today, I wish you a nice evening and a good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17667	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – Mr Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17689	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank you for your support for the proposals that have now been discussed. I would also like to thank the previous speakers for taking up the work and I therefore no longer have to deal with these matters in terms of content. You do a good job, you increase traffic safety with your consent, you create a lot more justice. The nice thing about it is that what it brings is much more than what it costs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying just one word to my two previous speakers of the SPÖ: At the end of the debate, you should not have specifically pointed out that you have a problem with rule of law. [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] All those who have followed the debate around the BAT have already noticed this in the meantime.
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17731	Thank you, Minister. No one has been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? – That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 24: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border persecution of traffic offences affecting road safety, in 7 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 25: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Administrative and Technical Convention on the Convention between the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the facilitation of the cross-border persecution of traffic offences affecting road safety, in 8 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimous and therefore adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:57:42]] According to § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the request 2/US to set up an investigation committee on the performance of the tasks of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism (BAT Investigation Committee) to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2018-03-21-026-XXVI-NRSITZ-00015_d7e17809	I announce that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 173/A to 183/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 20.58 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
