ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the media! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:10:46]] There are 335 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to point out that today is the Day of the U.S. Army. [[Applause]] I think we've been celebrating Ukrainian Army Day with you recently. I remember, unfortunately, that every day we hear about both the shootings and the deaths and the wounded on the front. They're all protectors of our state. You and I are also applying everything we have in our efforts to bring this to an end. That's what the President of the State does. And I, on the one hand, welcome all the defenders of the Fatherland, on the other hand, I offer a moment of silence to mention those who, unfortunately, will never return from the front. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we have received a statement from four factions to announce a 30-minute recess for a meeting in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's a break at 10:40. I'd like the factions to meet you in my office.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. In parallel, I would like to welcome our colleagues Sergei Dmitrovitch Grivka and Mikola Alexanderovich Kirichenko to their birthday. [[Applause]] Are they in the hall because I can't see? There's one. Julia Volodymyrna. Please turn on the microphone for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for a few minutes. You know, in society right now, the question of selling agricultural land is extremely resonant and unacceptable. The agrarian committee has now begun its consideration of the bill for the sale of agricultural land. And what we have seen cannot match the values of any faction in our Parliament, including the principles and values of each MP. Today, the Agrarian Committee has not been allowed to force any agrarian association, nor have farmers allowed it. And, attention was given to voting directly on the committee on the sale of agricultural land under a secret regime. I think it's already going through all the boundaries, so it's been a secret consideration of the sale of agricultural land and it's not allowed by the public. The second is simply unique. They appointed a committee meeting for tomorrow, violating the Rules in full because in four days it is necessary to consider it at all. And I can say that these violations of the Rules on the Agrarian Committee are unprecedented, rude and such that, in principle, they break society through their knees and force the sale of agricultural land against the interests of the people. Now what I'd like to ask all the factions. You know that the anti-corruption position is primarily the position of the "Serve of the People" faction. How can Ukraine’s laws guide a committee that has a complete conflict of interest? Mr. Solski, who now heads the agrarian committee, is also managing his company, almost 50,000 acres [50,000 ha] of land, and he, with his own interests, is in contravention of the law and regulations governing the sale of agricultural land. We are now addressing the regulatory committee: stop the gross violation of legislation immediately and hold an extraordinary committee meeting. Anti-corruption committee: consider Mr. Solski's conflict of interest. And I'm turning to the "Serial of the People" faction, if we really are on anti-corruption grounds, to immediately change the head of the committee, and until it is removed for a period of time to consider the fate of Ukrainian land at all. And I can also tell all of you that if anyone takes that responsibility and that right to decide the fate of Ukrainian land without a referendum, without asking people, it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u4	Give me 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u5	This is going to be a direct violation of the Constitution. I ask that each of us be aware of the history of this moment. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (registration No. 2569). Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we need to support and vote on the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the plenary. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready? Please support and vote. [[10:52:19]] For 297 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Show the factions, please. People's Servant - 201, Opposition Platform - Life - 35, European Solidarity - 21, Father's Day - 0, Future - 16, Voice - 0, Trust - 14, non-fractional - 10. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to address this issue by applying the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[10:53:10]] For 306 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The People's Servant Party – 212, Opposition Platform – Lifetime – 34, European Solidarity – 22, Father's Day – 0, Future – 15, Voice – 0, Trust – 14, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that we consider this question in favour. I'll be right there. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Wait, I know. Please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I remember what I promised. [[10:53:52]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was a suggestion to consider this issue in the following order: a report by the author, a report by the committee, then by the MPs and groups of three minutes. It was an offer from all factions and MPs. Agreed? Because there's not going to be a full discussion. Please support and vote in favour. [[10:54:44]] For 318 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of the city of Kornyenek Aleksandro Sergiyovich. Give him four minutes, because he's both from the committee and from the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u7	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. According to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkova, the Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, at its meeting on 11 December 2019, reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (registration No. 2569) (since 10 December 2019), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies David Arahami and Alexander Kornienkov. The need to introduce this bill is due to the fact that on 31 December 2019 there is a deadline for the introduction of a special order of local self-government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which include areas, cities, villages, villages and villages defined by the decision of the Supreme Council set out in article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. Therefore, the replacement in this article of the 2019 2020 mark will allow for a further year, until 31 December 2020, to continue the temporary introduction of a special order of local self-government in certain areas of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions and will create additional conditions, additional time-consuming opportunities for the implementation of appropriate legislative conditions aimed at the peaceful settlement of situations in certain areas of the Donetské and Lugansk region on the basis of the principles and norms of international law and the United Nations Statute. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 11 December 2019 to a bill with registration number 2569 states that it does not have any legal observations and points out that the first reading of the bill can be accepted as a basis. After hearing information from a subcommittee on matters of public authority, public service, services in local self-government bodies, public awards and symbols, having determined the position of the national deputies of the committee invited to the meetings and having discussed the subject in a comprehensive manner, the committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Special Areas of the Donetské and Luhansk Region (Registrational No. 2569), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Republic of Ukraine to amend article 1 of the Ukrainian Law "On Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of the Donetské and Luhanské Region" (Registration No. 2569). Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the first part of the first and the second part of article 114 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region (registration No. 2569), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, David Arahamaia and Alexander Kornienk, as a result of consideration in the first reading, to accept as a basis and as a whole. Please support the position of the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I do recall the arrangement that was: exactly three minutes, we don't add time to the top.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the European Solidarity Act has every reason not to support the bill. First. The appearance in the Paris Communiqué of Putin's sad-known Steinmeyer formula. Secondly, the Ukrainian delegation failed to include or even raise questions about the road map of the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. Third. The cat was put under the tail of a peacekeeping force with the mandate of the United Nations Security Council. Fourthly, well, it's actually a matter of active power and certainly not a matter of opposition, it seemed. Fifthly, the figures of the "cassette scandal 2" who fabricated another case for. the national betrayal that was revealed in the signing of the Minsk Treaties. And I'm 54 years old, and I'm not. Well, in general, you understand where the team went to commit such a crime. But I would like to stress separately that the three documents of the Minsk Treaties, which form a mine bag, are not sacred texts like the four Gospels. In eight months, those who had built an electoral campaign at the ruinous criticism of the Minsk Treaties offered no alternative. The Minsk Accords were found at the most critical time, allowing the Russian offensive to stop. The Minsk Accords gave the necessary time for the construction of the Ukrainian army. The Minsk Accords allowed the world coalition to be cemented in support of Ukraine. The Minsk Accords allowed sanctions to be applied, and today the Council of the European Union will take its decision. sanctions against the Russian Federation for failure to implement the Minsk Accords. They, these decisions, have given us the opportunity to ensure the preservation of the state. At the European People's Party's recent summit, I turned to the leadership of the European Union for the purpose of securing today's decision. Putin dreams of rejecting this law. Voting in favour is helping our army and our state to defend themselves with less loss. Voting in favour allows Ukrainian diplomats to continue their work for the preservation of the coalition. We're statesmen. We don't change the principles. And that's why we're voting for the continuation of this law. And one more thing. It's Armed Forces Day. I welcome you and join you in saying hello. But today and day 95.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen. Peter Alexiovich, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u11	Thank you. And today is the 95th Brigade. The legendary Mike, Mikhailo Vitaliyovich Zabrodski, is legendary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u12	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, MP for the Future. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u13	Dear friends, a respected Ukrainian society! You know, we remember on November 31, 2015, when changes to the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the special status of local self-government of occupied territories were at odds in this room. We understand the importance of this situation with regard to the longing of this bill. But it is all the more important to remember how, in a word, the members of the Supreme Council were pressured to make changes to the same President Putin, on whom the Ukrainian side today has done everything in order to reflect them and the issue of constitutional change is not in the Norman Communiqué. There is a technical extension of this bill. You know, one of Tertullian's first parents used to say, "I believe this is absurd." We believe in this bill because it is absurd, my friends. We realize that the effectiveness of this law depends on the local elections held in the occupied areas of Donbas on December 7, 2014. And the date of these local elections in this law does not change. They have to be held in the 14th year. The absurdity of the law we welcome. And what's more, we understand if this bill is important within the framework of the Normandy format, within the framework of the Normandy communiqué, of such important negotiating processes achieved by the Ukrainian side, if it is important to put an end to the disengagement line, if it is important for the exchange of prisoners of war, for the achievement of peace and, finally, for the victory, I think we can technically extend it to another year. Our MP group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u14	Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u15	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Honorable national MPs, respected Ukrainians, respected Ukrainian citizens in the territory, live in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions! We were all with you, like millions of citizens, watching on television President Zelensky's meeting in "normal" format. And in fact, Green's strategy, small diplomatic steps -- it wasn't just the victory of the President of Ukraine, it was the victory of the entire Ukrainian state. President Greensky has proved firstly that he is the president of the whole country. Secondly, for international partners he indicated that he was a leader who stood and stood at the very beginning always in state positions, on the principles of Ukrainian sovereignty and constitutionality. The history of the Minsk Accords has come to pass, so it has happened to us as an inheritance. And the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self-Government in the Donetsk and Luhansk region, too. This bill is actually very technical, but it will be a very strong and powerful signal for Ukrainian citizens in the Donetsk and Lugansk region that we are with them. And for the international partners, we're continuing the policy of steps towards a peaceful settlement of the situation that has arisen. When every one of you, the National MP, is going to decide today, vote against this bill, or against this bill, think about one thing: what will you tell your children and grandchildren when years later they ask you what you did to make peace in Ukraine, when you could and when you were national deputies. All the manipulations that are now spreading in social networks about what seems to be treason, about what's happening again as if surrender is not true. Local elections are not established by this law. And once again, it's a step towards peace. And each of you who came here to Parliament must understand that the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens now support a peaceful settlement of the situation that has arisen. So we vote only with a green button, we support only peace, we stop the bloodshed, we make sure that the Ukrainian flag over Donetsk and Lugansk are again the majors, and you, everyone, could record themselves in the history of Ukraine as a person who brought peace to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Bear Victor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u17	Dear Head, Your Honor's Presidium, Your Honourable National Deputies! Today's debate is about the law on features, I stress, local self-government in certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Why is it that the power team today is introducing such a bill, where it is about a technical change in the number of 2019 by 2020? Why, after all the arrangements, after months of negotiations, could the authorities only make such changes -- changes that our faction and the party certainly support? Because this law must work to the full. But I would like to emphasize and highlight your attention on the following issues: the chronology of the arrangements and the outcome of these arrangements that we unfortunately see in this room today. On September 11th, 2019, the presidents of the heads of the Normandy Four meet together with a communiqué that we heard on December 9th and a "Stinmeyer formula" written by the representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contact Group, Mr. Kuchma. The text of this endorsement announces that the agreements reached, I stress, on the implementation of the Ukrainian legislation on the issues related to the Steinmayer formula, namely: the restoration of the issues related to the holding of elections, I underline, on the basis of the special Electoral Law, and the introduction of the first provisional vote at 20 hours and after the OSCE conclusions on a permanent basis. Ukraine supported this formula on October 1. December 9th: Paris Communiqué, meeting of the heads of state of the Normandy Four. First, they supported that the Minsk Accords should be implemented. Secondly, we supported the implementation of Steinmeier's formula into our legislation. Why, then, do the authorities today bring forth such a limited technical bill? Why didn't she agree to consider our bill 2491, which provides for changes in the 1st, 2nd and 10th articles, which implements the Steinmeyer formula, and where is it that special status should have a permanent character? I answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u18	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u19	Which sounds constant, and we won't hear from power. Because Mr. Zelensky, President of Ukraine, and his team have no political will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u20	Thank you, Victor Volodymyrovich. No, Victor Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, Fatherland. Victor Volodymyrovich, thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, it would be very important to have this law handed down to us, for which you will now vote, which is before me. The ten articles, the law is worthless, it will be appreciated by any lawyer. The law is absurd, it will be appreciated by anyone. This law comes into effect when, on December 7, think about it, early elections will be held in 2014 in this occupied area. But that's not the point. The main thing that is written down is essentially the other nine articles of this law: the establishment of a national police force -- a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine; the courts, the prosecutor's office are created solely by agreement with the authorities in this area -- a direct violation of the Constitution. In fact, the return of millions of Ukrainian citizens and, above all, millions of those who have left these territories through persecution, terror, murder, is never possible. In fact, the situation that is today is freezing if it does not get worse. This law provides for a separate order, individual authorities, individual prosecutors, courts, and militias to operate in these areas. But that is not all. It is in this law, namely, article 2, that it is not possible to prosecute persons guilty of crimes in a criminal order and this is guaranteed by this law. The killers, the rapists in this law are actually exempt from criminal responsibility -- that's what was created in the 14th year. Question: Why did we hold the President's election? It was all great in the previous President's declarations. Didn't Zelensky say it would all change? So our faction will not vote for this law. We have never voted in favour of laws that violate the Constitution of Ukraine, which violate the sovereignty of the country, which leads to a continuation of war and obstacles to a restoration of peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u22	Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u23	Please give Rachmanin to Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u24	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u25	Rachmanin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u26	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u27	Not a good day! I want to talk to those who, from one point of view or another, are going to press the green button, with simple and clear explanations. Those who think this law is technical, it doesn't decide anything or it won't happen, I'm stressing that if you consider the laws of Ukraine to be technical documents, why did you come to the Supreme Council? If you are not going to do so, why are you making these commitments? And if he doesn't decide anything, why vote for him? I want to address those who speculate on the subject of sanctions. If anyone doesn't know, I can tell you that no legal act binds this Special Status Act, a disgraceful law that violates the Constitution, to the imposition of sanctions on Russia. There is only one document that ties one segment of American sanctions to Russia’s failure, attention, not Ukraine, to the Minsk Accords. The Special Status Act has no relation to sanctions. And if, by agreement, political informal sanctions bind Ukraine’s obligation to comply with this law, it is our fault that needs to be corrected immediately. If you think this law is nothing. I would like to invite you to look at the text of the communiqué, which many of you present as a victory in which the Steinmeyer formula is written, which provides on a permanent basis the Law on the Characteristics of Local Self-Government, and more specifically, the Special Status Act, is written in the communiqué of Paris on the basis of a Norman meeting. Read carefully, and it says that the Ukrainian side assumes a commitment: On a permanent basis, establish a special order of self - rule that envisions a violation of sovereignty, amnesty, the so - called national police. In fact, you're putting the scales of sanctions on the scales that are in no way approaching us to the invasion, and the violation of sovereignty is the actual collapse of the country. Since January 14, a familiar MP in this room has convinced me that so-called dictatorial laws are in no way a terror, in no way a repression, is a preventive action. And then there were hundreds of deaths. Another deputy in the 14th year convinced me that the introduction of special status into the Constitution does not change anything, it's a technical law. And then there was an explosion that took four people's lives. If you want to vote green, vote, but keep in mind the consequences. We vote red, it's red light to those who twist our hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, this is Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich speaking from "Trust," then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u29	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, I am addressing you today, and most importantly the Ukrainian people. I want the people to hear in Ukraine, which is in this room, and outside there are those who want to blow fires inside a country that can cover our country with a bloody wave inside. For the first time in three years, our President met in four leaders and discussed peace in our country, discussed how to solve the issues and energy issues that are spoken of here, especially peace in a democratic way, without war, without killing. I'm from Lugansk. When I go across the border with Russia, a Ukrainian and Russian wife live in one family — and vice versa. When I come to the station Lugansk district, they say today, "Thank you, we've opened up the direction of the bridge. I wish we could find happiness, this bridge; I wish we had already opened the Blasphemy, Dimino-Alexandrovka, Czartkov-Milova, just to get people into the family, into the family, and only in a peaceful way can we solve this issue. Ukraine has shown all these six years practically that we don't want war. The hybrid war is really in the media. There are contradictions within each family. And that's why I call on each of you today, all the factions, even the opposition -- to unite and vote in favour of this law, which has been strictly technical for three years. You don't have to manipulate the word "status" or "order." This law clearly defines order. Read and teach English to those who do not understand. So, my family, let me put it this way: by thinking with a cold head, by adopting normal laws, by working with international partners today, we will be able to solve this issue. Trust Group will vote and support this bill. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u30	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Can I put it on the ground right now, as a whole? Dear colleagues, I propose a proposal for acceptance as a basis and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetské and Lugansk (registration No. 2569). Please support and vote. [[11:22:23]] For the 320. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. From the procedure? Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 34, "European Solidarity" is 23, "The Fatherhood" is 0, "For the Future" is 16, "The Voice" is 0, "The Trust" is 14, "The Trust" is 14. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the holding in 2020 of the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization" (Registration No. 2417). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:23:32]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this here? Let's get to the polls and get to the vote. Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u31	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! The decision that I propose to consider the hall is of a kind of technical nature, because it specifies the names of the bodies that have been changed recently so that we can start the work of an organizational committee in preparation for the first time in Ukraine of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which will take place in the spring of this year in Ukraine. I want to remind you that this is the only assembly that clearly maintains further positions on Ukraine's support and the definition of Russian policy as aggressive against Ukraine, as opposed to the same Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Mrs. Madeleine Moon, said that "we are ready to support Ukraine, we are on your side," even after meeting with President Zelenski. Colleagues, I would like to thank you for the opportunity that this Parliamentary Assembly will be held in Ukraine, the previous two heads of the parliamentary delegation of Ukraine to NATO Mrs. Irina Friz, Mrs. Oksani Jurinec, all parliamentarians, representatives of the secretariat of the Parliamentary Committee on European Integration from the previous call. And I hope that with the new leadership of our parliamentary delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, together with the Head of the Supreme Council, we will be able to start the work of the Organising Committee tomorrow in order for this Assembly to take place at a high level and we have once again taken this opportunity to explain to the parliamentarians of the partner countries facing the challenges of Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u32	Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I would like to vote on the proposal for the adoption of a draft regulation amending the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding in 2020 of the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (Registration No. 2417). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:26:42]] For 322 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 05.12.2019 on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the Ukrainian draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the elimination of the corruption scheme in the field of the registration of information from the reports on the assessment of real estate objects and the transparency of the implementation of property. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:27:47]] For 273 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich. Is there a Mr. Trebushkin? You won't report it? How so? We can vote, right? Committee position, please. Calchenko Sergey Vitaliovich. I think if even the author doesn't insist, we can do it without discussion. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u33	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee has considered the draft of this Order. As indicated in the draft regulation, it is proposed that the decision of the Supreme Council on adoption in the second reading and in the whole of the Law (registration number 2047-d) be repealed on the basis that the adoption of this Law had taken place in gross violation of the Rules. However, there is no information in the transcript of the plenary session regarding the request for a hearing and a vote by the presiding member of the plenary. However, in a two - day period, the subject of the legislative initiative appealed to the Chief of the Supreme Council with a statement and introduced a draft decree. In line with the provisions of article 48, the regulatory committee adopted the conclusion and proposed that the Parliament vote to decide whether or not to adopt or reject the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u34	Thank you. Please register the factions: two in, two in, two in. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u35	Zinkevich Jan, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u36	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u37	Alexei Hotcharenko, Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, in fact, this law that we passed last week is one of not many examples of where, indeed, the Supreme Council did the very right thing in making a real gift to all citizens of Ukraine, right under these New Year's trees. As of January 1, the following year, this corrupt scheme, in which every Ukrainian had taken money, would cease to exist. Every natural person, every Ukrainian citizen, who was either buying or selling his property, starting with a barn, and ending up with a house or an apartment, each had to pay 500 - to 1,800 bracelets for a credit card and come with it to the notary. What's to pay for? It's like Ostap Bender's, so it doesn't fail. That's why we had to pay money to get hundreds of millions of dollars in pocket money. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decision and by its adopted law, stopped doing so. Moreover, I would like to thank everyone for the whole Supreme Council's support for my amendment, which envisioned the free, absolutely free access of Ukrainian citizens to this base, and this is how it will now be done. Since January 1, the following year, no Ukrainian citizen will pay a penny for access to this base. It's not going to feed some unknown, or famous, delinquent, but it's going to leave this money to itself, it's going to do it in Europe, feeling like a worthy citizen of its country. So, of course, right now we have to reject this determination. The law must be signed as soon as possible, enter into force. And this is really going to be one of those gifts that we're going to make to Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u38	Thank you, Alexei Alexiovich. Let's do it together. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. You know, from this rostrum, I'm consistently advocating the development of competition and the demonization of key sectors of the economy. So, I want to tell you that the courses that report property valuations to the state base are a monopoly, it's an artificial monopoly that's being crushed by the state, and it's an artificial monopoly that plagues the Ukrainians. But that's not the only problem. In the process of evaluating Ukrainian private property, they rob twice. The first time that they require more than a thousand dollars for sending data to a single rating base, the second time that the value of property is undervalued to pay less taxes, and the budget gets less money for doctors, teachers, kindergartens and roads. Neither the beneficiaries of the courses nor the dishonest evaluators wanted to lose their profits. That's why during the committee's consideration of the bill, there was so much dirt coming out of the committee, but we found compromise and voted in favour of Bill 2047-d, which destroyed both monopolies. This bill is going to win, first of all, the Ukrainian. I therefore propose not to support the decision to revoke the voting results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u40	Thank you. Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Ironman Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u42	Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u43	Dear friends, first of all, I would like to thank the author of the decree that we once again have the opportunity to remind the whole country and our colleagues of what was there, unfortunately, these corrupt rules on the valuation of real estate, and this is the first such vote that was a constitutional majority for cancelling them. Moreover, with this opportunity, I would like to inform the head of Parliament and all of our colleagues that our committee was working very quickly on this bill, a bill that has already been verified by the legal authorities, is ready, on a form. So as soon as we have this disgraceful decree lifted, this bill will be signed immediately. And once again, I want to go to the State Property Fund. We have very carefully prescribed all the rules, including the mandate of the State Property Fund, so we ask that as soon as this law becomes available, it will be signed by the President of Ukraine and will become the law, so that this scheme will be overcome as quickly as possible. And again, thank you to all your colleagues for all of us fighting this corruption together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u44	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. The great Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u45	I give the word to Shah Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u46	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. Honorable colleagues who are no longer willing to speak? Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u47	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, you and I have accepted a very important question during that sessional week, and we have removed all the corruption schemes that were for the benefit of the villains who robbed the population. All the money that's been robbed will now just go into the state budget. Our group will not vote for this motion. And we insist on another, let me put it simply, so that we can hear in every corner of our country. For example, a 50 - year - old family dies, a grandparents dies, and a 20,000 - dollar home needs to be transformed, and even for the state, if a budget is to be filled, it is not beneficial. It's the hand-wringing of every Ukrainian, people building a house, people working on our businesses, people building our state and economy, and now kids are practically robbing our parents. So I'm asking the committee to work out and make changes to the Code, and make sure that even though older people don't pay in this shameful scheme, they're free of taxes that today strip ten skins of a simple, average citizen. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u48	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, we don't insist, I understand, the author. There's a committee position, you've heard the position of all the speakers. And I don't think there's any support for this decision. That's my personal opinion. I'll bet on the vote on a motion for a rescinding order. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole of the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 05.12.2019 on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the Ukrainian draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the elimination of the corruption scheme in the field of the registration of information from the reports on the assessment of real estate objects and the transparency of the implementation of property (registration number 2047-d-P). Please identify and vote. [[11:38:32]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" - 7, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fathership" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 0, "Trust" - 0, "non-factional" - 0. The decision is not taken. By the names I can't say right now, I think you'll be able to look at the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. The decree is rejected. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 04.12.2019 on second reading adoption and, as a whole, as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market (registration No. 2233-P). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:39:42]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? You don't have to. Can we put her to the vote? The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u49	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I will not tell according to an explanatory note, according to the statement that I was making this decision. I'm just going to say that on this very day, on the 4th, when we voted in favour of Law 2233, the Head of the Supreme Council himself said that there were non-personal ballots, I think, nine times, he said. So I don't know whether this law was voted out of person or not. But that's not the main thing. The main thing is that the current Ukrainian Power Market Act has set up competitive mechanisms for the functioning and operation of the electricity market. Unfortunately, when they wanted to amend this law and assured us that the amendments prohibit the import of electricity from Russia, it's all fiction, leaving the country of Belarus, and it's going to bring the same Russian electricity, and we're going to continue to kill the generating companies, the coal sector of Ukraine, by reducing the corresponding and coming into this, including the government budget. But the main thing is that the authors of this Law, 2233, do not deceive people for the first time. You'll see, when you ask the Internet who this is, you'll be given a family, you'll be given a family again and again, having a PP "Prime Minister" or performing "AW Trade Ukraine", you've been misleading Ukrainians. Now he's misleading the President's Office by this law, telling us everything's fine. I would like to remind you that the President has just signed a decree on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on urgent measures to ensure energy security. This law violates everything. So I ask you to support this decision and vote for it to repeal Law 2233. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u50	The word is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u51	Honorary Presidencies, honourable National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee discussed at its meeting the draft Decree 2233-P on the annulment of the Supreme Council decision on adoption as a whole, registration number 2233. The draft Order proposes to cancel the decision of the Supreme Council because, as stated in the Explanatory Note, it was adopted with gross disregard for the professional opinion of the public, in violation of the Rules. The statement to the Head of the Supreme Council points to the establishment of a nonpersonal vote. At the same time, the committee noted in its opinion that during its consideration of the bill, national MPs made comments on the content of the bill. But this was done in the context of discussing the bill with an appropriate vote on the proposals and amendments made. In addition, the Committee noted that it had previously repeatedly stressed that the fact of a non-personal vote by the people's deputies should be established and violated directly during the consideration of the bill in the Supreme Council Hall of Meetings in the order provided for in article 47 of the Rules, rather than after the completion of the consideration of the matter, and more so after the end of the relevant plenary session. The Regulatory Committee then reached a conclusion and decided to invite Parliament to decide how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u52	Do you want to talk about it? Please register: two in, two in, and two in factions. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u53	I'm sorry, wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u54	Again, I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u55	Wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u56	Wrong? Then let's move on. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u57	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherskina faction, Ukrainian citizen, consumer of electricity. The honourable chairman, the honourable deputies, well, first of all, was a little surprised by the question at all, should we consider such a decision? In general, it's about the fate of Ukrainian energy, the Ukrainian generation, which today is under enormous threat because of one of the deputies that I would call "the Director General of Energy," and you and I came into the room. We have a very interesting country, if you're watching. We can use it to frame Ukrainians, and I'll explain why. But I have a question: how much can you cheat on the President? On September 18th, when one MP passed the Russian Power Imports Act, and one day, contrary to the Rules, he forced the Hall to sign it by deceiving all the deputies here, and then the President signed it on the same day, the whole country realized that it was not possible to do so. They tried to fix the situation, they registered another bill, like a ban on Russian electricity imports. It was put on a committee without station directors, without energy, without the media, that decided to introduce a new bill into the room, and then this director of energy went out and said, "Russian imports are forbidden. He's gone." I would like to inform you, Your Honor, first of all, "The Servants of the People," the Office of the President, Vladimir Alexanderovich himself: Russian imports are not prohibited, he continues, he stops our atomic generation, he stops our heat generation, he forces us to shut down coal production and generation at thermal stations today. Come on, guys, figure out what's going on! That's why I'm asking you to support this motion for a ruling, because it gives the President's Office a first chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u58	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. 10 seconds, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u59	First of all, the President's Office can find out that imports are continuing and take immediate action. Keep this resolve in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u60	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u62	Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, this is going to be the principle of voting because the "servants" promised that they would root out the buttonage during the election campaign. And our colleague, Mr. Bondar, made a decree based on the fact that buttons were recorded during this law. And the second principle is history. This law hides the betrayal of Ukraine’s national interests. We spent five years without electricity and Russian gas. Today, "servants" are opening up the Ukrainian energy supply for Russian electricity, and soon it is planned to do so for Russian gas. And that's why it's actually going to be a very clear marker now, whether you're protecting the country, our energy dependency, or whether there are oligarchy interests that are higher than the interests of Ukraine. In fact, how Ukraine discovers today for Russian propagandists and business is scary. Today, for example, the TV Star, which for five years, you know, on its air shows the torture of Ukrainian military, makes selfies from the central square of Kiev, from Maidan Independence. They were admitted into the country. I want to officially contact the Ukrainian Security Service right now and ask, what are the propagandists doing here from the Star Channel? And you have friends ask, what's going on? You're so proud that in Normandy's format, there's no betrayal and you're making it a "heracle feat," it's wrong. President Zelensky in Paris was stopped by the red lines that Ukrainian citizens put on him. Today's Red Lines is the vote for our colleague Bondar's decision on Ukraine's energy independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. Let's go to the vote. Oh, I'm sorry, Kamelchuk Yuri Alexanderovich. Yes, to the rostrum of the "Serve of the People." A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u65	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It is very unpleasant to hear nonsense about the betrayal that is not there, especially about our 2233 bill. And each time, they're more and more wrapped and veiled. And it's even strange to hear a position when a colleague of mine from a faction that's just been speaking said they're supposed to be behind a ban on Russian electricity imports, and now he's going against it. What's more, it's spreading on social networks. There's only one thing I can add. He came personally to Ukrenergo's dispatch and saw if there was any import of Russian electricity. Since the beginning of December -- zero, Belarus -- has been down three times. Why? Because it's not convenient. The bill, I'm reminding you, is that Krennergo has a license to continue to work, we ban Russian imports from bilateral agreements, as was the case, we return to the place of this mistake, and we continue to allow TEC to survive the normal heating season, and everything will be fine. Therefore, there is no betrayal. I ask you not to support this determination, but to think less about it and to listen to those who simply speak and do things differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 04.12.2019 on the adoption of the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. [[11:51:33]] For-47 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" - 2, "The Opposition Platform" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 22, "The Fatherland" - 14, "For the Future" - 0, "The Voice" - 0, "The Trust" - 4, "the Non-Factional" - 5. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary control over the investigation of the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists during 2017-2018. The issue is being considered by a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:52:35.]] For 261 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna. Out of procedure, David. Yeah. David Georgiyovich Arahami, out of procedure 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, given that we've already taken a big break, I suggest we cancel our break from 12 to 12:30. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u68	So I understand you're suggesting that we don't have a break from 12 to 12:30?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u70	Procedural question. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Procedural issues can be considered. No, it's not. Then let's move on to the question, and then we'll go back to the procedure. Samantha Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Well, finally, the issue of creating a TSC for attacks on activists during 2017-2018 found their place in this room. I am very sorry that we were unable to do so until the death anniversary of Kathy’s death. For many of us, she was a colleague, a friend, and so on. But I'm very sorry that we're creating this TSK when he died on Friday, I'm not saying, he died, Artem Miroshnichenko, a public activist in the Bahmut Donetsk district, for having answered two, sorry for the word, the freaks, the Ukrainian language, who in court demanded a translator from Ukrainian to Russian because they were Ukrainian citizens and they didn't understand it. I don't want to make language policy here. I just want to emphasize to you the tragedy and scope of the whole "Russian world" that not only brings us war, but the killing of those people who are public activists and who stand up for their position. That's the first one. I want to remind everyone that over 55 attacks and killings occurred during 2017-2018 because 5 ended in flight, with the death of our friends and colleagues. And part of this room, as probably none of the other calls, is made up of representatives of public activists, must bring this to an end. Not enough, of course, I want to thank today's law enforcement authorities, who are going at some point to concessions, to work together, to talk, to have a completely constructive dialogue. And I think this TSC should prove its ability to work. But the most important thing I want to remind everyone is one scary sociology. 84 percent of Ukrainians believe that attacks on public activists are an important problem. And 77 think that being a public activist in Ukraine is scary and dangerous. 73 percent of our citizens have heard about Kathu Hanszük and nine out of ten have heard the principle of bringing this matter to an end. Little is known about this incident now throughout the world. And I think it's just the creation of this TSC, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u72	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u73	And it seems that it's the creation of this TSC that doesn't just put the case in the drawer, and this is really the work of parliamentary oversight and control in what really happened. And this is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u74	Samantha Anatolyevna, I apologize. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u75	And our job is to help bring this thing to an end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u76	Thank you. Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u77	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of this Temporary Commission of Inquiry (Registration No. 2302). The Committee noted that in paragraph 2 of the draft regulation, the initiator of the application defined the main tasks of the Interim Investigation Commission, and in this part, according to the Committee, the initiator of the implementation of the draft should take into account the position of the Constitutional Court to monitor the activities of the Procurator's Office, as set out in the decision of 11 April 2000. This refers to paragraph 8, which provides that the Office of the Attorney-General, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs should facilitate the work of the Interim Investigation Commission on the access of their members to information, materials and documents. The personnel of the proposed Temporary Investigation Commission consists of 13 national deputies. The committee noted that in paragraph 5 of the draft decree, editorial irregularities had been made regarding the national MP, Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich, instead of the draft decision proposed by Nataluh Dmitry Anatoliyovich. And then the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and adopt a draft of this decision, taking into account the editorial details of the committee regarding the Ukrainian National Deputy Nataluha Dmitr Andriyovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we have a few minutes before recess, I propose not to be a pianist on this committee, to vote for it. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues, please, let's not be a political pianist here! I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee of the Project, the Decision on the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out parliamentary monitoring of the attacks on Catherine Hanszük and other civil activists during 2017-2018 (registration No. 2302). Please support and vote. [[11:59:16]] For 347 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. 12:00, break. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u79	Please invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, we're going a little bit. But as long as we're going, let's welcome the students of the Plain area of Kostopil School 5. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, while we're taking our seats, I'd like to announce a few small announcements about what didn't work. From the People's Deputy Buymester: "Please consider my voice against the Project Decision 2047-d-P." Tishchenko: "Please consider my voice against the 2047-d-P regulation." Leros Geo: Please count my voice against 47-d-d-d. Mandy Sergei: "Please call my voice back, count against 47-d-d-d." Smogluk. Vasilevska-Smagluk, I'm sorry, "Please call my vote back for Bill 2047-d-P." A statement. "Technical failure, the ballot didn't work." National MP Rahmanin under bill 2509. And, "Please consider my voice against Project 2417," by National Deputy Koltunović. I will also make some announcements on interfractional mergers. Interfractional Humane Union. Headquarters of this union have been selected as Shepherd’s Julius Yuriyovna and Rudik Kira Alexandrovna. Interfractional MPs 'Development of Modern Market Relations in the Field of Energy, Environmental and Transport Infrastructure to Build a Successful European State'. Kradenko Vladimir Viktorovich was elected head of the association.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I have a few questions that we need to resolve. First: Bill 2299. I asked the committee not to consider him at this meeting. Consider the following, for he needs further processing. Do you mind if we take a picture? Aren't we going to vote for this? Are we just going to the next question? We can. And the second question. Please tell us, we have 2 bills: 2412 and 2414, reported by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. You won't mind if we take a look at them now and then return to Bill 2172? Is there no objection? Thank you. We may not vote, we've reached consensus, I understand? Thank you. Then, dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the bill, registration number 2412, of the Intelligence Act. The report is given to the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Danilov Aleksija Mechaslavovich. Alexy Mechaslavovich, please. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Ready? Wait a minute. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u85	Wait, please. Just a minute. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[12:41:48]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. The word is given to Alexia Mechaslavovich Danielov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, distinguished present, allow me to present to you a bill of intelligence submitted by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Its urgency and importance are due to serious changes in the external security environment, the emergence of new external threats to Ukraine, including hybridism, the need to reorganize intelligence activities accordingly, and to enhance the intelligence capacity of the state. The legislative framework that was formed between 2001 and 2005 does not fully ensure that Ukraine's intelligence agencies carry out the new tasks defined by the President of Ukraine. That is why the strategic planning documents in the area of national security and defence set out the task of improving legislation that regulates the activities of Ukrainian intelligence agencies, adapting it to modern realities and requirements. The Ukrainian Intelligence Act has been drafted for the implementation of the National Intelligence Programme for 2016-2020, the Concept for the Development of the Security and Defence Sector of Ukraine, by the President of Ukraine. Its text implements the provisions of the Ukrainian National Security Act, taking into account advanced foreign experience. The draft legislative act is, in a sense, innovative, it has to come in exchange for the Ukrainian law "On Ukrainian Intelligence Authorities", which is morally outdated and no longer meets the current requirements in many respects. The new law reveals for the first time the concept of "intelligence," defines the structure of intelligence society, the general principles of functioning and the interaction of its subjects. The project also identifies the intelligence coordinating body as a core element of the intelligence community established by the President of Ukraine to facilitate the implementation of its powers through the management of intelligence bodies, to ensure the interaction and coordination of the joint activities of the intelligence community, to extend the rules for the implementation of democratic civilian control over the activities of the intelligence society in accordance with the order established.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u87	Let me finish. 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u88	A separate chapter of the bill is devoted to organizing and carrying out research activities, conducting investigative measures, covering up intelligence activities, enhancing inter-agency interaction and the ability of Ukrainian intelligence agencies, providing and using intelligence. The bill optimized and logically structured the intelligence system, established positions that would improve the professional training of spies. It's important that we work together with international partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u89	Let's get this over with. Alexy Mechaslavovich, but he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u90	Half a minute. . on the exploration of modern Western standards to take into account and implement in Ukrainian realities the experience of legal regulation of the activities of NATO and European Union intelligence services. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u91	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of the Besugola Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u92	Honorary colleagues, citizens, according to a commission, the committee at its meeting on December 4, 2019, considered the Ukrainian President’s draft intelligence law (registration number 2412). The purpose of the bill, which is to replace the current Ukrainian Intelligence Authority Act, is to improve the legal and organizational principles for the operation of intelligence, the activities of Ukrainian intelligence bodies and other intelligence bodies, to improve the effectiveness of their interaction, and to ensure the social and legal protection of employees of intelligence agencies and persons involved in confidential cooperation with these bodies. The bill sets out appropriate terms: the basis for the operation of the intelligence community, its competence, the consumer of intelligence, the order of administration and control of the intelligence bodies, their financial and material technical security, the legal status of the intelligence staff, their social legal protection, as already stated. Amendments to a number of Ukrainian legislative acts are also proposed to harmonize with the project’s position. The implementation of the bill requires additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, having examined the bill, made a number of comments and suggestions to it and believed that the bill needed further work. A working group was also established for the purpose of all - out development. However, the Committee considered at its meeting and approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of the first reading of the bill to be sent to the Main Committee for the preparation of a re-first reading for further processing and orientation from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, does it need to be discussed? Please register two in, two in, and two in factions. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u94	Bondar Mikhailo, European Solidarity. Pass it to Zabrodsky Mikhail, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u95	Again? Zabrodsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, regarding the bill. He was on the committee twice. Indeed, a number of very good comments were made. Surprisingly, it concerned the social sphere itself, such as the protection of employees and employees of intelligence agencies, as well as issues of authority given to bodies to carry out their functions. The law as a law is very weak because, apart from listing rights, it no longer essentially contains anything that was repeatedly referred to by the copyright team. Hopefully, for the first time again, we'll get a more perfect example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u99	Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I want you to listen carefully, Dmitri Alexanderovich, this is important. Mr. Speaker, I wanted you to hear this. In line with the committee’s decision, the committee recommended that the first reading be rereaded. That means the bill is going back to the zero cycle, we don't have to vote for it now. He's on his way to the committee and he's working on it. In this case, the logic of the committee is one more time. We don't have to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u101	We should vote on the decision proposed by the committee. Once again, we have to vote on it, that's the decision. It will be the first to vote. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u102	May I have the floor to Murmitch Anatoly Petrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u103	I can't hear you, I'm afraid. Again. Puziczuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u104	Anatoly Burmich, MP, Opposition Platform for Life. Under the prescribed law, you can't vote for him. Why? For example, the External Intelligence Service and military intelligence -- they have completely different functions. They want to be led into one today. Next. It is a draft law for the establishment of territorial intelligence agencies. I'm sorry, you have to. Intelligence has to work in Ukraine. In Ukraine, only the personnel are prepared. The draft law provides that the new body will also include counterintelligence functions. I'm sorry, what's going on? What will the intelligence work in Ukraine, by law, to start search and search? Against whom? As against spies, there is a counterintelligence function. I consider this law to be a lobbyist and the basis of the President, those who want to push him out. Instead of improving our work, working in the direction of intelligence, both military and external intelligence, we're doing "cushion" that makes it impossible for real intelligence agencies to work. He needs to be sent to work and not to be seen in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u106	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Presidium, Your Honor! In fact, Ukrainian intelligence agencies are tasked with national security. The ORP should prepare such tasks, and the President should approve them. For the time being, the intelligence agencies of Ukraine need to focus on two major tasks. The first is to overcome Russia's external aggression. But the next question is the fight against terrorism. Unfortunately, this bill has a very important flaw. For example, the bill defines a narrow circle of surveyors who are referred to by the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Secretary of the RNBO. Next. It raises doubts about the actual inclusion in Ukraine's intelligence bodies of the main counter-intelligence body is the Ukrainian Security Service, which is the operating units of the central apparatus, which is wrong. Because in 2005, in the process of reforming the BSI, the intelligence units were isolated into a separate structure. The bill proposes that the Forces of Special Operations of the Armed Forces of Ukraine conduct a special investigation for the purpose of preparing and conducting military defence and special operations. However, the term "special intelligence" in this bill is not allowed. There are also questions about the social protection of intelligence workers. The bill uses the term "expert secret" and there is no definition of it. We agree with the committee's position on bringing this bill back to the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u107	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, because a minute with Lubintz's motive, after that, we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u108	The Honorable Presidency, honourable national deputies, the whole world is intensifying its intelligence organs. Ukraine has been in a state of war for six years and it is certain that we should have considered this bill a few years ago. This bill, now we have a strange situation, a bill submitted by the President, as an urgent one, the leader of the LNB supports its adoption, and the profile committee proposes to send it back for a re-reading. The parliamentary group "For the Future" will vote and support the committee's proposal, because the bill is very weak, and we would very much ask our colleagues from the profile committee to add experts, develop a professional, serious bill, strengthen our intelligence body, protect the workers involved, and eventually adopt a serious legislative act. And then the entire Supreme Council should vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting for a motion to refer to the committee for a re-reading of the intelligence bill (registration number 2412). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:56:01]] For 336 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The People's Servant Party is 215, the Opposition Platform for Life is 27, the European Solidarity Party is 20, the Father's Day is 16, the Future 14 and the Voice is 19, the Trust 14, the Non-Factional 11. Dear colleagues, please tell us we have a draft law amending the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service Act on the activity of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service (Registration No. 2414). It's the same decision of the committee. I propose that we vote without discussion, why waste time? For what? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a committee to be sent to a committee to prepare for the re-reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service Act on the activity of the Ukrainian External Intelligence Service (Registration No. 2414). Please support and vote. [[12:57:17]] For 340. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's go to. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" 218, "Response Platform for Life" 28, "European Solidarity" 20, "Fatherhood" 16, "For the Future" 13, "Voice" 19, "Trust" 16, "non-factional" 10. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We turn to the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on reducing the pressure on business by market surveillance authorities (registration number 2172). The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, Bill 2172 is a bill to protect the Ukrainian producer and Ukrainian citizen. Today, market surveillance authorities are very poor in protecting Ukrainians from dangerous products, and inspectors are punished instead of checking and preventing them. Finally, we need to organize systems for market surveillance of non-food products. I want us to change our philosophy. The public market inspector should check, not the business, but the product that poses the danger. Its task is not to pressure businesses and entrepreneurs, but to eliminate dangers. This is what Bill 2172 proposes. That is: we propose to cancel all fines for formal offenses. The inspector will be obliged to make a recommendation on the removal of a violation and only to impose a fine for a repetitive violation. We protect small businesses and establish by law that the responsibility for dangerous products lies with an importer or manufacturer, not a trader. We cancel the notion of "infinite combined checks" when the inspector could keep the entrepreneur in suspended condition for months; we limit the maximum verification periods. During the inspection, the inspector can only verify what the hazard documents are for, and the goods of the same group, not all that are in production. Finally, we remove duplication of control of different organs by the same type of product. In addition, Bill 2172 is the last step towards the signing of the Agreement on Conformity Assessment between Ukraine and the EU, which is the so-called industrial carnage. European certification bodies will start to recognise Ukrainian certificates of quality – a tool for simplifying life and promoting Ukrainian exports. The Economic Development Committee adopted a decision: to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the second reading of draft Law No. 2172 and to adopt it as a whole as a law with further technical and legal treatment. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to a review of rights that have not been taken into account. No. 2, Gerega. Don't insist. Number 12, Batenko. Don't insist. Ichchenko, 13. Don't insist. 14, Yvchenko. Aren't you going to insist on your work? It won't. 15th, Marchenko. Don't insist. Is there a Gehrega? None. Taruta, 23rd. Don't insist. Is there a Taruta? None. Forty lashes, Royal. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, please don't break up. I can see we're going to be able to get through it quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall. We've been through every step of the way. Let's go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] With motive? Klimpush-Cincadze is a minute, Yvchenko is a minute, and Mezenceva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u112	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we are absolutely in favour of Ukraine's movement to initiate that real industrial zero. And really for it to happen, we have to put in place effective market surveillance. Unfortunately, this bill only partially takes into account the provisions of Directive 2001/95 and Regulation 765/2008, which are necessary to take account of our legislation in order to obtain a positive conclusion from the European Union and then to discuss the signing of the SAA Agreement. So unfortunately, we can't support this imperfect bill, which, without contradicting the Association Agreement, at the same time doesn't take into account the basic provisions that should be taken into account in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u113	Thank you. Mesenceva is motivated and. Batenko's a motive, too? Mesentz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u114	Thank you very much, colleagues. In fact, a historical bill for the Ukrainian business is being considered today. And for now, colleagues, we need to think about the fact that in today's world, there is a clear sign of the consistency and the matching of competition. And our country's competition is the competitiveness of entrepreneurship. In fact, the Law on Market Surveillance is about appropriateness, competition and the integrity of doing business. And that our consumer should be protected. In fact, we had many discussions on rights on the committee, but we took into account regulations on nuclear installations, on jewelry business, which are not covered by this law. Indeed, this bill does not conflict with EU law and will open the way for an agreement to assess the conformity and acceptability of industrial products. Guys, New Year's coming up. Let's give a gift to the Ukrainian business. I suggest we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u115	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u116	Dear friends, I don't know how much it conflicts with the EU's conclusions, but I do believe that any legislation that has a chance of reducing the pressure on domestic business by the authorities, by any body, by the penal authorities, and including the market surveillance authorities that apply to this bill, should be supported. Therefore, we are grateful to the profiling committee for taking into account our proposals to avoid an increase in the number of vetting bodies, including this 118 amendment, which has been rejected today, but which is actually counted by the committee. Thank you. We are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u117	Do I understand what you're asking me to do with the 118? Oh, no? Turn your father on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u118	Dear friends, as I understand it, the committee does not refuse to consider it, but we have to formally place it on record to be considered. So please vote, Amendment 118.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u119	So I understand you're insisting on voting for Amendment 118, so that it can be counted, not confirmed? Right? Yeah. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 118 of the Batenka People's Deputies. It wasn't counted by the committee, but I do understand that it will be able to improve the bill in principle. Do I get it right? That's why I'm betting on the vote. Please support and vote. I'll bet you $118. [[13:07:11]] For 337 Congratulations, Taras Ivanovich. 337. Dear colleagues, it's number 121, Yvchenka. Right? Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the bill is called "to amend certain legislative acts to reduce the pressure on business." And with regulation 121, we do propose that for certain tests (where baby food is, where textiles are, where products that do not create such danger) there be really no police escort. So we suggested that this rule be excluded and I ask that you, colleagues, support it. I don't understand why I didn't count the committee. And please put to the vote Amendment 121. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u121	Vadim Evgeniovich, I understand she's identical to that of the reverend Taras Ivanovich Batenka, isn't she?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u122	I don't know Batenka's initiative. I know that 121 revisions actually change the approach a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u123	Okay, I heard, that's it. Dear colleagues, I'm voting number 121, National Deputy Ivchenka. She wasn't taken into account by the committee, but I do understand that the committee doesn't deny her consideration. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. It's not Battenka, it's Yvchenka. [[13:09:12]] For 329 For 325. Decision taken. I'm sorry, 329. The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone. 61 lashes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you to the MPs for supporting the important amendment. When I wanted to put it on confirmation, I saw it on the table, it's 60 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u125	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u126	No, 60 revisions, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u127	It's rejected, 60 revisions. Your readjustment is dismissed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u128	No, I'm saying 60.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u129	I'm telling you again: Amendment 60, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich is rejected. You probably mean 61st, the one you put on confirmation. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vadim Evgenovich, I propose to proceed to the vote. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u130	I have a chart, article 29. This is an amendment by the national deputy of Podlasa. 60 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u131	61st. Edit Podlaso.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u132	This is a change to article 29, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u133	Yes. 61st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u134	So it's 61st. Thank you. I have a 60's that's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u135	I got it. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Now we're going to bet this amendment on confirmation. Then we'll move on. Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u136	Colleagues, I just wanted to explain. Here, look, "if the market surveillance authority has established that the product meets the set requirements, but it can be a risk to the health of citizens, to life," we understand that these are measures that can be set up for any manufacturer. This body urgently requires restrictive measures. Colleagues, this is total pressure. The law is called "the reduction of pressure." There's total pressure in this direction. And I want to point out that this is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u137	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u138	I'm not sure that this is exactly a violation of the law. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to put it to a vote and fail this amendment. And I'll thank you, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u139	Prepare for the vote, please. No. 61. She was counted by the committee. This is an amendment by the national deputy of Podlasa. And the committee insists. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:12:33]] For 255 Decision taken. Edit included. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to reduce the pressure on business by market surveillance authorities (Registration No. 2172). Please support and vote. [[13:13:23]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (receiving asylum for homeless persons) (registration number 0932). Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations by Lubinec Dmitry Valeriovich. Dmitri Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, but somehow, come on, you knew there was going to be your bill, didn't you need it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u140	We're ready, Your Honor. For your consideration, Bill 0932 is presented before the second reading. The proposed changes are designed to protect the rights of the unprotected population: homeless citizens who do not have a permanent place of residence. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Committee in particular, have received numerous appeals to support this bill from representatives of public, charitable organizations and law enforcement organizations. Today, homeless citizens who live in social institutions and institutions set up appropriately by public and charitable organizations on contractual grounds with local authorities and local self - government authorities to provide services for the detection and settlement of homeless persons are virtually deprived of the right to register their residence in institutions where such services are provided. The proposed bill corrects this situation and enables social services to be provided to the most vulnerable groups in line with the Social Protection for Homeless Persons and Homeless Children Act and Social Services Act. I want to say that this bill is supported by the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. There is a letter from the National Migration Service of Ukraine that also supports the adoption of this bill. Experts from social organizations that provide social services to homeless citizens likewise support the adoption of the bill. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the bill does not have an impact in the current and subsequent budget periods on increasing or reducing revenue and budget expenditure. I always emphasize and call upon the national MPs, your colleagues, to read the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I would like to point out that the GNEU of the Supreme Council appreciates the legislative initiative, so it supports adoption. When preparing the bill for second reading, the proposals made by members of our committee were taken into account. There were no other suggestions for the committee. At its meeting on November 14, the committee considered the bill. In agreement with all factions and MPs, he supported the proposal to clarify the title of the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council on second reading and generally as a law. People’s deputies are invited to unite and vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u141	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, please don't break up, this is where all the adjustments are accounted for. Please prepare for the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Determination of residing in Ukraine (registration No. 0932). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:18:38]] For 343 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" - 128, "The Opposition Platform for Life" - 29, "European Solidarity" - 19, "The Fatherhood" - 16, "For the Future" - 15, "The Voice" - 18, "The Trust" - 16, "the Non-Flocked" - 12. The law is passed in general. Thank you all again. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Circumstances in Ukraine (registration number). I'm sorry. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation (registration number 0933). Reported to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Inoccupied Territories in Donetsk, Luhansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations by Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, for your consideration, a draft Law on Temporary Measures is proposed for the duration of an anti-terrorist operation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u143	I'm sorry to interrupt, Dmitri Valeriyovich. Please don't disagree, all the changes are taken into account, and after the committee head has spoken, we'll move on to the vote. Please give the word to Lubinci.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u144	Colleagues, I'm going to report very quickly on this bill. He was registered with Ukrainian national deputies: Nemira, Feldman, Branzovich, Wesselova. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the Period of Anti-Terrorism Operation, by supplementing it with article 9(3).: "The identity of the documents that certify the person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine, of the citizens who live in the zone of anti-terrorist operation and/or national security and defence measures, of the interception and deterrence of Russian aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, or of such a zone during the period of the operation and/or the implementation of the measures indicated." Actually, what's the problem? We all know that despite the situation that has arisen in connection with the conduct of an antiterrorist operation, now the OOS, the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region, lives continue and, accordingly, there is a need to document citizens with documents that support the individual and support the citizenship of Ukraine. In the vast majority of cases, this applies to obtaining a Ukrainian citizen's passport and a Ukrainian citizen's passport to go abroad. This is actually a simplification of the procedure for obtaining a passport from a Ukrainian citizen and a foreign passport. I would also like to point out that, in support of this bill, there have been so many rights-based organizations, public organizations. There is a letter from the head of the State Migration Service, who also supports the adoption of this bill. Documents certifying the person and confirming the citizenship of Ukraine that have moved from the area of anti-terrorist operation and/or national security and defence measures to the actual place of residence and residence. So the committee considered the bill. Corrections have been made. Four amendments from the People's Deputy of the Magnificent. Three corrections - counted, one - partially counted. Thus, virtually all the proposals made by the national deputies were taken into account by the committee. Similarly, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority supports the adoption of the bill, called for no warning. And I ask the National MPs to support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the changes are included, let's go to the vote. It's the Prince's moment. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Head. There is indeed a problem in the law itself: the Anti-Terrorism Act, the measures that exist and the anti-terrorist operation no longer exists. That's why it would be good. I understand that there was a committee in a very difficult situation, and they just took it through "and/or" added "OOS." So maybe there's a point, even though in this part, if there's no political will at this point and there's no possibility to change the name of the law at all and the whole law as a transitional, maybe even if you do what the ATO has to do in the past, that is to say, the legal relationship that was at the time of the ATO, and all that was in relation to the OOS, after the OOS, let's do it already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u147	Ruslan Petrovich, we're not going to make a sound. I give my word to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u148	I'm going to do this technically to propose to the committee. It's very easy to make technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u149	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u150	We have considered, indeed, a warning, and we have one of the amendments to what has changed, this is the 1st amendment of the Grand People's Deputy: paragraph 1 of the bill after the words "anti-terrorist operation" should be supplemented by the words "and/or during the implementation of national security and defence measures, the secession and deterrence of the Russian Federation's armed aggression in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas by the United Nations Operation (UNOOS)." So that's what we took into account in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, this has no procedure for discussion. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Measures for the period of anti-terrorist operation (as regards the features of documents that certify a person and confirm the citizenship of Ukraine) (registration number 0933). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:25:32]] For 348 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure unhindered access by representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to prisoners. taken into custody, excuse me (registration number 0885). Reported the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Vendíktova Irina Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u152	Good afternoon, dear fellows! It's really the right thing to say to vote, it's a good bill. It is designed to give representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross the right of unimpeded access to persons taken into custody. It is proposed to supplement article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment with a new part five, according to which the representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross are granted an unhindered date with persons taken into custody, without limitation on the number of such dates and their duration in cases and in accordance with the conditions of the 49th Geneva Conventions and on the protection of victims of war with a report by the investigator or the court carrying out criminal conduct, in the absence of any follow-up and hearings. The bill is valid and necessary for today. The second reading committee has prepared a comparative table for the bill, which contains one proposal that is suggested to be rejected. The Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure unhindered access by representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross to persons taken into custody, to be accepted in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Edit only one unaccounted for: Cimbaluka Mikhailovich. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u154	I would like to begin by thanking the author of this bill and personally to you, Mrs. Irina, for the principle of professional discussion that took place around this amendment. Indeed, as a result of the discussion, I came to realize that this amendment narrows down the right of representatives of the International Red Cross to have access to temporary detainees or prisoners. I suggest we turn her down. And the Fatherland faction will vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u155	Thank you. Let's go to. Dear colleagues, there's no discussion, let's go to the vote. Irina Volodymyrno, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment to ensure that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross can enjoy unhindered access to persons in custody (registration No. 0885). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:29:07]] For 335 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 215, "Resistance Platform" – 25, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fatherhood" – 16, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 19, "Trust" – 14, "non-factional" – 13. Out of procedure, Heroschenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, thank you so much for supporting this bill, which has been passed since the last assembly of Parliament. But I would like to now contact the Committee of the Red Cross itself, which has full access to prisons in Ukraine, and including now you and I have made it easy for you to access those previously detained. At the same time, the Red Cross is obliged, the International Committee, to make greater efforts to get to, at last, prisons in occupied areas where Ukrainian citizens are illegally held and where, during the war, the Red Cross has never been able to visit our hostages: neither civilian nor military nor occupied Crimea nor the occupied Donbassa nor the Russian Federation. You and I have now simplified for the International Committee of the Red Cross so that without a court permit, they will have access to those who have previously been detained. But we appeal to international humanitarian missions -- be active, so you have to insist on visiting finally Ukrainian hostages, where they're being held there, and start looking for missing missing persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. You have been proposed a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise taxes) (registration No. 2317). Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll remind you what this law is 2317. This bill removes some of the shortcomings that exist today in the electronic fuel management system. This system was completely justified on 1 July of this year in order to shorten the illicit fuel market in Ukraine, which, on the one hand, damages the budget, on the other hand, is a source of shadow economy and optimizes the value added tax. The committee processed the data. The bill, voted before the first reading, was amended by 111 amendments to the bill. In general, we came to the conclusion that the work that was done in the first reading, with little exception, was a compromise. A compromise between business, between business, agriculture, industry, and oil producers, and the state, so that, on the one hand, we don't lose weight in the system, and on the other hand, we don't overburden business with the tax administration. So after reviewing the rights, I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u159	Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Number one, National Deputy Kutcher. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number two, People's Deputy Ironborn. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, my readjustment is very short. It tells us that we now have a system, when, if you have at least one excise warehouse, you're subject to regulation. We offer this right to simplify it, to deregulation even in such a case, so that this regulation is not mandatory. So if, perhaps, let's take a look at the committee and vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u161	Do you insist on voting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u162	We need to find a balance with you in our search for simplification compromises. In our view, disfellowshipping this situation will lead to tax abuses and will destroy the system itself. This is precisely the case when an amendment cools down a system that works properly without it. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u163	Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Amendment number 3, People's MP Sphenov. Don't insist. Next line is number 4, National Deputy Watzak. Don't insist. Amendment number five, People's Deputy Kucher. Don't insist. Amendment number six, national deputy Dubinsky. Don't insist. Amendment number seven, National Deputy Grib. Don't insist. Amendment number nine, National Deputy Grib. Don't insist. Amendment number 10, People's MP Sphenov. Don't insist. Amendment number 11, National MP Marousek. Don't insist. Amendment number 12, National Deputy Dubinsky. Don't insist. Amendment 13, National Deputy Watzak. Don't insist. Amendment 14, People's MP Kutcher. Don't insist. Amendment 15, National Deputy Watzak. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, are there national deputies who will insist on their rights and on how many? Is that right? So we're going to keep going through this? Okay. You'll insist, won't you? No, it's not. National MP Watzak, will you insist on the following procedures? No, it's not. People's MP Sphinx? It won't. The National Deputy of South Carolina? No, it won't, it'll be 20. 21st National Deputy Chevchenko? It won't. 23rd, Marusian. It won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u164	24th, Dubinsky. Will you insist on your work? 26th, Grissom. Are you going to insist on law enforcement? Thank you. 27th, Tarasov. Won't you insist? Is the sailor going to insist? Vassilevska-Smagluk, will you insist, 36 lashes?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support 36 revisions because 90 percent of the scrap gas comes to us from the Russian Federation. And I'm proposing with my right to balance the excise duty on scraped gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, and this will not only make it possible to save the price of gasoline for AZS by 4 bracelets, but it will also add an additional 5 billion to the Ukrainian budget. And Minfin supports this. Thank you. 36th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u166	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, I'll explain. Today, we have different rates for diesel fuel, gasoline, and compressed gas. The smallest bet is for compressed gas and the largest bet is for gasoline. These bets are proposed to balance each other to $139.5. That's what the committee decided. The committee decided to reject the amendment. But to date, we have received a copy of a letter from Hodakovsky's deputy minister of finance, who, given that such a bill provides additional revenue to the state budget, is asking for support. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I'll bet on the vote number 36, National MP Vassilevsky-Smagluk. Please vote. [[13:37:56]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 37 papers, Eugene. Don't insist. 38th, Chewchenka. Will you insist on your work? Thank you. 45th, Dubinsky. 46th, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u169	Colleagues, in general, predict that in this bill, applying European approaches, we should not lose sight of the protection of the domestic producer. So this amendment suggests that we do not apply the increased fuel coefficient produced in Ukraine by the domestic producer. In our opinion, withdrawing from the Ukrainian domestic producer of the increased, to fuel a higher tax rate clearly does not improve the attractiveness of business in Ukraine and discriminate against such producers. Thus, we are convinced that the lifting of such a higher rate will allow for the involvement of both domestic and international domestic operators. So please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u170	Accounting creates grounds for abuse by, in this case, a producer of fuel produced in Ukraine. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'm voting 46, National Deputy Batenka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:51]] For-50 The decision is not taken. 62, Eugene. Don't insist. 65. Nina Petrovna, are you going to insist on some kind of law enforcement? You won't. Thank you. 67th, Dubinsky. It's counted, 64th. Stand by for confirmation. What are you asking me? Batenko Taras Ivanovich. 64th, that's what I understand. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u172	Dmitri Alexanderovich, we're talking in the room with Mr. Getmance, so I understand that there and many other colleagues have an understanding of this amendment. With regard to the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance that we have received today on a number of amendments to support -- non-support -- it is the Ministry of Finance that does not support this 64th amendment. So I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u173	Amendment number 64, national MP Marussyk. Committee position, committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u174	Amendment 64 was taken into account by the committee at yesterday’s meeting. However, there is indeed a letter from the Ministry of Finance, according to which the Deputy Minister of Finance does not support this amendment and requests that the position of the Ministry of Finance be taken into account. So please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u175	It was taken into account by the committee, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u176	It was counted, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 64 of the Marousek People's Deputies to the vote. Please vote. [[13:41:57]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Nina Petrovna, U.S.A. 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u178	Colleagues, we agreed that we had found a compromise decision on the committee. You're here specifically to reject Amendment 64. Colleagues, you're lying. Let's not go into the room again, let's go back to 64 amendments, support it, and, in general, vote in favour of the bill. When you break the billboards, the proxies are issued by the manufacturer, you beat it out for good. Look, it's all sitting in the hall to support this bill. Have the courage to say no to people who influence you for once. Please, let's vote for the 64 amendment, and we won't push on, all of us here together, on the amendments we've been making.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u179	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u180	Mr. Razumkov, you're committing a crime now. 64 amendment cancels the committee's decision. Why, then, does the committee come together at all, and we find compromise?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u181	Committee position? Let's move on, we can't discuss the amendment, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, it's about the domestic fuel producers, for whom, in the first reading, we have foreseen a simplified order of calculation of fuel, which does not provide for the issuance of a bill of lading and the avalanche of this bill in the bank, because such an operation entails spending the additional costs of a domestic producer. In fact, such a domestic producer has, unfortunately, remained alone in the state. But it's a compromise that, on the one hand, gives business the opportunity to work, on the other hand, doesn't ruin the system. Therefore, I would like to make up my mind about what is involved in this regulation. And one more moment. If we've turned this down, we have to subtract 10 more lines, they're interconnected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u183	No, dear fellows, that's it. Yeah, let's not recommend it, or put it on confirmation, or "you don't need to." 65 axles. Committee position? Again? [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't put it, we voted it. I can't put her to a second vote, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u184	65 revisions are the same as the previous one, 64th, voted, so we can put the vote again, if they insist. The committee's decision is to reject 65 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I'm voting number 65, the national deputy of Jujanina. Please vote. [[13:46:43]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry. We've passed the 62nd, we've passed. We put the 64th on confirmation, there'll be your revisions. 68th, Bondarenko. Batenka, I'm sorry. Don't insist. 69th, Marousek. 70th, Eugene. 71st, Batenko. Ah, 70 of Jujanina's papers. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, let's return the law to the second, and on Tuesday we will consider it in the hall. Because, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, when we reached the 64th, we've already voted on four standards that introduce legal uncertainty. We've already returned all the bills for "Qurtatnafta" and the other amendments are also significant. But we've already done half the work. Either we come to a joint decision on the committee and we vote on Tuesday, or you make it impossible to apply now. And if you go through some amendments to the technical drafting of the bill, I don't agree with that, because you're going to violate the entire rules of the articles of the law that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u187	See, actually, the situation is not as complicated as you say it is. We have 8 interconnected Marussieks, 7 but 64. So we have to put them on confirmation 7 - and then we'll go back to the previous state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, perhaps. Danilo Alexandrovich, can I talk to you for a second? One minute, I need a committee head. Come here, please. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, please pay attention! Okay. Batenko, 71. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u189	Dear friends, the essence of the amendment is that we have our own specification for the construction of domestic oil refineries that perform the full oil processing cycle in Ukraine. And they have cost scales. We want to add more weight to the fuel measures, along with the flow meters and the equimeters for the oil refineries. They're needed to measure the amount of fuel, at the same time bringing it to the right temperature -- 15 degrees Celsius. It's an important ingredient, it's for nothing, there's no ideological other, unnecessary support there, as they say. That's what the code requires. So I ask you to ask this question, this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u190	71 redundancies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u191	This amendment balances the system and introduces weights instead of costs, as provided for all participants in the electronic fuel management system. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 71 Bat. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:40]] For-30 The decision is not taken. 73rd, Spanov. Don't insist. 81st, Eugene. Don't insist. 84th, Marousek. Don't insist. 85th, Iron. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, this amendment is actually technical, it makes our entrepreneurs a very small period when a fine is not applied. Why do we do that? Because, unfortunately, only on July 27, 2019, the Ministry of Finance issued an order, and they failed to register, there was no technical possibility. And so in order to clear up this sad situation, we're going to enter an additional paragraph that just for a very short period of time, from July to August, that is, one month, does. Frees you from a fine and doesn't put any pressure on business. So please support me, this is a technical readjustment, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u194	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 85 of the Iron People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:28]] For-88 The decision is not taken. 86 papers, Dubinsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u195	Good afternoon, dear fellows! This amendment refers to the introduction of so - called “expenditures ” for a domestic fuel producer. An amendment that actually complements SEARP and the issuance of excise fuel consignments required the tax service to address the issue of fuel control that is being sent to airports and fuel volumes produced by the Scrooge plant. And in order to address these issues with regard to the technical conditions for setting up costorms in the working groups, we discussed transferring this time frame to 2022. And the position of the Tax Service and the Ministry of Finance is to support such a suspension, which is required by a letter from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u196	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u197	In fact, the Ministry of Finance by letter confirms whether it supports the transfer to the 22nd year, but we had a very lively discussion on how long it would take for a domestic producer to move the cost of the meter and the counters. We agreed that such a term should be - July 1, 20th, not 22nd, as defined in the amendment. So she was rejected as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u198	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 86 of the Dubinsky People's Deputy. Please vote. [[13:55:40]] For-100 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 80, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 5, "For the Future" – 10, "Voice" – 0, "Trust" – 2, "non-fractional" – 3. Amendment 87, Batenko. Dear colleagues, I continue our meeting for 15 minutes. Batenko, 87th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u199	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I do not insist on 87 amendments, but I would like to address Mr. Getmantsev's committee head, since we voted for 64 amendments, to place on the confirmation those interconnected few amendments so that we can vote in favour of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u200	Thank you. 81 lashes, Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u201	It really looks strange now, because, Mr. Danilo, if we're talking about the differences in promissory notes, it's just that, after reading all of you yesterday with the experts, this difference in promissory notes is not related to the application of the counters that we're postponing to 01.07. Then let's make technical adjustments and we'll talk about that or that at some point in time, we'll talk about the change in the promissory notes. I don't understand. All importers are paying for a low-cost bill, only in Skritnafti there are problems. If "Qurtatnafti" doesn't trust any bank and requires them to completely cover the bill's amount, and that's what he's got problems with, then what do you do? Why should the State trust? And for the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance has been influenced by a producer, and the Ministry of Finance has changed its mind -- and now it seems to have put another vision into the room. It's a big surprise to me. That's where they've come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u202	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, this is about domestic fuel manufacturers. Once again, unfortunately, it's one or two for today. There were more of them before. And given that these companies are stable, that they can be found, and that they can be presented with tax requirements, we have offered an alternative billing mechanism that the importer uses. And we think it's kind of a compromise option that's going to allow us not to distract a huge amount of money from a domestic producer. Thank you. The offer is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u204	Thank you. He insists on voting? Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Now we're going to go to the vote for the law. 92 revisions, Nikolainka. Does the railroad insist on law enforcement? Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! We're through. Watzak, 112. Don't insist. We've been through everything. Yes, Nina Petrovna. We've been through everything. Danilo Alexanderovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u205	Thank you. In fact, the bills in the draft text are used several times in several different cities. We haven't confirmed the order of 64 people's deputies, Marousek. This amendment is related to another 7 amendments. So I'm asking that we go back to the original state of this bill, put it on confirmation, and don't support 7 other rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u206	We went back to your right, Nina Petrovna. Look, we voted 86th, then we went back to 91st. Let's not! 81st. Pick up the transcript, Arthur Volodymyrovich, we voted in favour of 86, and then we went back to 81st Jujanina. Let's not! [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't vote them. So let's not! Danilo Alexandrovich! [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have to go back, if we voted them out, dear colleagues! We didn't vote them. I can go back to those lines if we haven't looked at them today. If I was sounding and you weren't reacting, I'm afraid not. If we didn't talk about it, yes. These are confirmation papers, dear colleagues. Danilo Alexandrovich, you're doing something or something.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u207	This is a confirmation form. Regulation 19.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u208	If you could just say something about it, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please wait! Wait, please! Please wait! How about a little quiet in the hall? Dear colleagues, there are many questions before this bill. Now we've got some problems. As far as I can tell, the bill is being heard. Dear colleagues, may I? David Georgievich! There's what we are. May I? Thank you. We balanced the bill. There are two suggestions. First. We're sending him back to read again. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! But the second offer. We'll have the committee prepare him for Tuesday. Shorten the lines and give. Yeah. Ready? I'll put it to a vote, it'll be a decision of the hall: either yes or yes. I can't decide for the hall. Is there a two-vote? Yeah. Dear colleagues! I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to re-read for preparation. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return the committee to work with a second reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise duties) (registration No. 2317). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:04:12]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I bet. No, we're in, we're in a vote. We're in. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to prepare this bill for re-second reading and to be considered on Tuesday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait! That was the arrangement. Let's shorten the deadlines before we look at it on Tuesday. Please support and vote. [[14:05:01]] For 281 Decision taken. Thank you. Coltunovich, with motive, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I'm pointing out that we've just seen a living example of this lobbying, this particular industrial group, or financial group. And this bill is not really interested in solving the market issue in a positive way. On the other hand, some schematics are created. On the contrary. And these billing systems are coming back, payment delays for 270 days. I insist and urge everyone not to support this bill on Tuesday or the next day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m0.u210	Alexander Sergiyovich, thank you. Yet, in view of the results of the vote, perhaps the Council can prove that it was not lobbying anyone’s interests, 304 was in favour. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The evening will begin at 4:00.
