ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we'll start the registration, prepare yourself. Dear colleagues, please register. [[16:09:20]] A total of 379 Ukrainian national deputies were registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. For what reason, Irina Volodymyrna? Turn on the mic, Hero, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, you know, there is now a widespread statement by the network and media of one of the Ukrainian Supreme Council deputies, which has racism. We condemn any manifestations of racism in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, xenophobia, sexism. We want to express our solidarity with our colleague Jean Belenjuk: Je suis Jean Belenjuk, Nous sommes Jean Belenjuk. And we demand to condemn any racist statement in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to consider this issue on the regulatory committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u3	Thank you. I think I'll give you a line, but if you don't mind, two minutes for Jean-Vensanovich Belenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon, third time today! Irina Heratschenko, I am very grateful that you are concerned about racism. Really. But I think our country is still tolerant of racism, and there should be no problem. As for Liza Bogucky, I had a warm, good relationship with her, and that post she made, I'm sure of a hundred percent, was without any back thoughts, here. So thank you all. And I want to say that in this House, racism will not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u5	Thank you very much. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, before your consideration, a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulations on the Planning and Systematicity of the Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1042-1) is proposed. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u6	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the regulatory committee reviewed the draft Law (Registration No. 1042-1), which was adopted as the basis for September 13. This is a small bill, with only one article, article 19 with a badge 1. Which predicts that at the beginning of the next session, which begins on the first Tuesday of February, the draft work plan is approved by the Conciliation Council. Appropriately, by December 31st of the year leading up to the current year, profile committees are proposing issues that they believe need to be dealt with, taking into account the programme of activities of the legislative plan of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the government's activities. Considering that the scope of the bill was small, there were only 23 proposals, the vast majority of which were taken into account, which led the committee to take a decision and ask Parliament to adopt the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Request not to disperse the national MPs, there's not a lot of law enforcement. I think we'll get through them fast. Less than 10 lines. Dear colleagues! Is the Royal Natalia Yuriovna in the hall? None. Sphinx. Puzichuk. Vlasenko. Puzichuk. All of it. All the adjustments. There are no rights authors. Therefore, honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, they were just speaking out of motive. Colleagues, well, at your place. You guys haven't had a motive before, let's not. Please prepare for the vote. The number, Knazevitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u9	Twenty-one counts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u10	That's exactly what I'm trying to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u11	Twenty-one counts. Colleagues ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Turn on Heratschenko's microphone. Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, our faction has prepared a series of amendments to this bill, some of them are counted, some of them are not, but we have to take a position on the whole "European Solidarity" on the draft amendments to the Rules. And they're next. We think it's supposed to be a complex bill, not like, you know, it's mosaic, mosaic. And the second. We call on the President of the Supreme Council, the first bill to be put in place with regard to amendments to the Rules, to amend the Rules, which will require the necessary expertise of all bills to comply with EU law so that we can adopt our laws immediately in a manner consistent with EU law. Before that, our faction will abstain from any of them. in voting for drafts concerning such a chaotic amendment to the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u13	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Head! Vadim Ivchenko, Fatherland. We agree with previous colleagues that it is important that we always systematically approach the reform of the bill on the Rules. We need to take a systematic approach because there are quite a lot of proposals from different factions and deputies for changes to the Rules. All of this needs, as the first deputy said, to systematize and submit one bill so that we can see a complex painting. Because another law we start to regulate 116 articles, previous laws, something else. So it's important to approach systematically. We support this bill, and I am happy that the committees will finally be able, let's say, by the end of this year, to submit a written report to the Supreme Council on the implementation of the draft work plan directly. It's a normal practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote. If so, I am voting on the issue of adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the Planning and Systematicity of the Legislative Activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1042-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:18:15]] For 244 Against one, holding 49. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 222, Opposition Platform - Life - 0, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherhood - 10, Future - 9, Voice - 0, non-fractional - 3. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure concerning the requirements for proposals and amendments to the draft Bill, which is being prepared for second reading (registration No. 1039-2). Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. Colleagues, there's very little law enforcement, please don't split up, more loyally, they're not there, alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u16	Honorable Presidium, honourable national deputies, indeed, of those 13 proposals that came into Bill 1039-2, accounted for or partially accounted for all except one. You remember very well that when you're looking at both the original 1039 and the two alternatives, we've taken into account the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, where it's actually the red line that article 116 of the Rules is now not ideal and we need to give some opportunity to the Main Committee to make some changes to the text that wasn't the subject of the first reading. But at the same time, we realize that you can't open Pandora's box or release a gin out of a bottle, you can't give the Main Committee unlimited opportunities. As a result, members of the committee, including the proposals that were supported, and that version of article 116 that is, were very widely supported by the active members of the committee. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u17	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. I suggest we go to the right. Amendment number 11, National Deputy Ivchenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u18	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would not vote for this law. Why? Yesterday you passed a law where you canceled a list of objects that were not allowed to be privatized. In fact, article 116 says that you cannot change other laws. Yesterday you passed a single law, and several other laws, directly violating the Rules. What are you suggesting today? You propose to legitimize these rules when you make changes to article 116 of the Rules, by way of the majority in the committee, which may determine the exceptionality of making proposals, such as in the structural subsections of the law. So here, I want to tell you, the Earth Code, there are 10 chapters -- these are structural units, 37 chapters are structural units, and 230 articles. I feel that there is no need to touch 116 articles at all if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u20	If it is violated, the deputies have the right to make a decision and to revoke the corresponding vote, that is fair, since the first reading did not address the relevant changes. In your context, you'll be legitimizing it directly because of the committee's decision. I don't think this will allow you to work effectively because you've already begun to violate this article and make changes to other laws. And on the other hand, I propose to reject this bill at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u21	Thank you. Sergei Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u22	When I spoke about the criteria that the Main Committee may be guided by, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Main Committee, as an exception, may decide to consider those proposals to those structural parts that were not considered in the first reading, if the need for their introduction was mentioned, is noted in the conclusions of this Main Committee and/or the Expert Unit of the Supreme Council, and is announced by the chairman of the Plenary at the first reading of such a bill. Both proposals and amendments should meet the subject of legal regulation. To our conviction, these are the clear criteria that should guide the Main Committee between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u23	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u24	I enjoyed the thought that the article was not ideal. To be honest, I don't really understand the logic: ideal, imperfect. This article is either there or there is not. You're proposing to take it away, the consequences. You know, we have a committee, I'm unfortunately forced to talk about it, a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine came in and tried to get into the NAZK Bill to add an amendment to the Civil Service Act. Realizing that this is an unprofessional committee and realizing that this is not a subject of the Committee’s knowledge and that there was a completely different article in the NAZC section on public service. Now when we cancel 116 articles, it's just going to be a normal thing, you're going to have to get to the second reading on all the committees, and you're going to have to give me the "instigation of the instigation" that's going to be a kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u26	First of all, the honourable national MPs, no one is going to cancel or even acknowledge an invalid 116 article, is proposed in a different edition. When I talked about the inadequacy of 116 articles, I said that in the conclusions of the Chief Expert Office to all the bills: 1039, 1039-1 and 1039-2 -- they came from the fact that article 116 needed to be modified and given certain possibilities for the Main Committee to make changes to parts that were not the subject of the first review. It's not a secret, you can get to know the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u27	Thank you. Are there no more willing speakers? I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I would like to vote on the second reading and, in general, on the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure on the requirements for proposals and amendments to the draft draft draft for the second reading (Registration No. 1039/2). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:26:00]] For 229 Against 24, hold on to 50. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant – 223, Opposition Platform – Life – 1, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood – 2, Future – 1, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 2. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws in connection with the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration No. 0896). Reports the deputy chairman of the committee. Quiet in the hall, please, colleagues! Colleagues, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Krawczuk Eugenia Mikhailn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u28	Good afternoon, colleagues! It's a transitional bill. His Committee on Humanitarian and Information Policy prepared for its second reading on September 30. Bill 0896 received 17 amendments, all of which were included. Briefly, the bill. On April 26, 2017, the Ukrainian Act "On State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine" introduced the concept of film commissions. At the same time, the law did not define the legal status and order of the production of film commissions or their function and competence. We want to remove this gap by wide opening the door for foreign cinematographers who will film in Ukraine and leave money in Ukraine. Film commissions are institutions of state or municipal form of property. They will help film companies get their approvals for film shoots, provide a variety of advice, develop databases on local locations and film manufacturers about local cinematography specialists and promote Ukraine and its territories. The second important aspect of the bill is the definition of the concept and characteristics of the legal status of state cinemas. In particular, if an investor is found and wants to privatize such a film studio, he should have a clear program of film development, not be able to change the profile of his activity, not be able to change the target of proper film studios on property rights or using land for 20 years. The committee requests that the bill be supported in the second reading and in general. It's important to the film industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the amendments that have come to this bill have been taken into account by the committee. Therefore, I ask the factions to invite the Ukrainian national deputies to the hall. And, honourable colleagues, there are three bills that have either one or no one at all, or two amendments. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please turn on the microphone. Next time we're done and we're going to vote, you keep an eye on what's going on in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u30	Thank you, Mr. President of the Supreme Council. I'd like to draw your attention to this: this law is actually a very good law, it's good, except for one point at the end: the privatization of the Odessa cinema. In my past vocation, the question was considered, and then I called the attention of my colleagues, and it went back to the second reading. An amendment was made to the effect that this enterprise, preserved land and property, should not be reclassified, so that it would work for the production of the film. During privatization, it's to work on film, not just to wake up in the center of Odessa, because it's a French boulevard with a very expensive land. It's kind of strange now in this law that the land remains that the land needs to be preserved, and the word "beautiful" is lost. And I'm asking you not to vote on these terms, add the word "for property," protect that there's a movie, not a high-rise building.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u31	Thank you. I think, well, you could've added it to the paper, but it didn't happen. Guys, let's get to it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's go to the vote, dear fellows. Committee position. From the voice. No, wait, no, no, no. No, the proposals come in writing to the committee. No, under the transcript. No, if possible and desired by a national MP, he had to file a written appeal to the committee. Dear colleagues, we're not going to make a vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the issue of adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the Act on State Support for Cinematography in Ukraine (registration No. 0896). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:13]] For 253 Against 10, holding -28. Thank you. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's go. Show the factions, please. People's Party - 225, Opposition Platform - Life - 0, European Solidarity - 1, Parenthood - 7, Future - 10, Voice - 0, non-fractional - 10. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences to strengthen the protection of operators against unlawful acts or the inaction of arbitrary authorities (registration number 0889). Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The project proposed to you today is a transitional project from the last call to parliament. This is about what most are actually willing to support the positive changes proposed and proposed by other political forces today. In fact, the bill proposes to change the article, to post an article in a new edition of the Code of Administrative Offences No. 166. 1, which is actually called and expands the list of infringements of the requirements of legislation on the permit system in the field of economic activity. We've worked very hard on it on the committee, and we've actually put this article in a new edition. There is no reference to this bill by the General Legal Authority. Six amendments were made, five of which were taken into account, including editorially, and one was decided to reject. So, colleagues, I propose to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u33	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich! Let's move on to the right-hand side. As far as I can remember, there's very, very few of them. Amendment number five, Cymbaluk. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone. And, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote, no more rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u34	The Fatherland faction, Tsimbaluk. I thank the drafters. In fact, it is needed to reduce peer pressure. And considering that the five amendments made by my colleagues, including the Mamka deputy, are taken into account, I feel that my amendment may not be put to the vote because it will not change the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u35	Thank you. I take it you don't insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you very much. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, I also wanted to thank the authors of this law, it was developed in the past, and in particular I would like to thank the first author of the previous vocation of this law, Oksani Prodan, who has made a great deal of effort to collect these proposals, to work with the Ministry of Economics. And that's probably a very nice sign -- that, despite the fact that we've come to this law, we're going to accept it. It's actually designed to improve the business climate in our country. Thank you again to the committee and thank you to the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u37	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Strengthening of the Protection of Owners from Offences or the Inaction of Involuntary Authorities (registration No. 0889). Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please take your seats, please support and vote. [[16:36:43]] For 299 Against 0, hold on to 3. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show by factions. The People's Servant Party – 225, Opposition Platform – Life 9, European Solidarity – 20, Parenthood – 8, For the Future – 11, Voice – 15, non-fractional – 11. Let's move on to the next order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have received a draft Act amending article 133-1 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Unjustified Refusal to Contraband Certain Categories of Citizens (registration No. 0893). Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Medjanik Vijacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u38	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 133 pr. 1 Ukraine Code on Administrative Offences to Increase Responsibility for Unwarranted Refusal in the Leverage Transfer of Certain Categories of Citizens This bill is a transitional from the eighth call, with the aim of minimizing cases of baseless refusal by drivers of vehicles from the statutory tax transportation of citizens. The bill received three proposals and amendments from Ukrainian national deputies. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the right-hand side, one, no, two, excuse me. 1st, Nekludov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. And two-a, Cymbaluk. He insists. Please turn on the microphone. And let's go to the vote, please take your seats, national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u40	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. I also want to thank the authors for taking the courage to do so: this bill from the previous call of the Supreme Council, which has been laid down for almost a year and cannot be voted on, has been passed and we will vote today. The Fatherland faction supports such a bill, and we believe that we should be able to protect the extended categories of carriers. Another question is that it is already more budgeted for compensation to local budget carriers, especially local authorities. Thank you. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting for the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on the introduction to article 133-1 of the Code of Administrative Offences on the increase of liability for unjustified refusal in the payment of individual categories of citizens (registration No. 0893). Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[16:40:26]] For 303 Against 0, hold on to 3. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 228, Opposition Platform – Life 10, European Solidarity – 21, Parenthood – 7, For the Future - 11, Voice – 13, non-fractional – 13. Dear colleagues, thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been approached by the Ukrainian Act on State Affairs. This is a re-examination with proposals from the President of Ukraine. Ukrainian Act "On State Recognition and Support of Plastic – National Scout Organization of Ukraine" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 03.09.2019 (registration number 0976) A word. Do we have to vote 150 or not? Simple. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Stefanchuku, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u42	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! The Act on State Recognition and Support of the National Scout Organization, adopted by Parliament on 30 May 2019, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in the proposed edition. First. The law that came with the signature provided for the definition of the principles of the function and the provision of State support to Plastic, as well as the recognition of it as the only scout organization in Ukraine. At the same time, we now have a number of other scout organizations registered in our country, which are supported by data from the Single State Register of Legal, Personal Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. Not only does the legal approach provide for the creation of advantages and privileges for the functioning and receiving of state support by a social organization but it also entails the risk of preventing the creation and further activities of other scout organizations. Thus, in the proposed wording, the law limits the right of citizens to freedom of association within public organizations guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. Such an approach is not in line with the Basic Law of Ukraine, which primarily states that social life in Ukraine is based on the principles of polygamy (part one of article 15 of the Constitution of Ukraine), and citizens are guaranteed the right to freedom of association in public organizations (part one of article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine), which is equal before the law (part five of article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine). The adoption of new laws does not allow for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights. — Part Three, article 22 of the Constitution. That is to say, according to the Constitutional Court's legal position, the right to freedom of union is one of the fundamental and fundamental political rights (Court of the Constitution of 13 December 2001 No. 18-pp-2001 in the case of youth organisations). The other one. Moreover, the provisions of the Law on State Support Mechanisms of Plastics are not in line with part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which State expenditure on general needs is determined solely by the State Budget Act and do not take into account the principle of the independence of Ukraine's budgetary system, as defined in article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which guarantees the right of government authorities, local government authorities, in accordance with legislation, to determine the direction of the use of budgetary resources. Taking into account the above, and taking into account the significant contribution of the Ukrainian plastic scout movement to the acquisition and formation of Ukrainian state education and national patriotic education of children and young people, the President of Ukraine proposes to amend the law with a view to defining the principles of State support for the development of Ukrainian plastic scout movement. In view of the above, I ask you to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and to finalize this law, taking into account the comments made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u43	Thank you. Will there be questions for the reporter? Please turn on Vasilka, Voice. Samantha Bobrowski, I'm sorry, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u44	Hear? Hear, hear, hear. Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, actually, Plastic is the National Scout Organization, not the NSO, or any other people who are involved in the Scout movement, is an organization with more than a decade's experience of raising us, you, your children, and the people who have fought for the recognition of the Ukrainian state, have been for over 100 years. Not much. We have an interfractional band called Plast in the Council. We are grateful to those who support us. We're very much asking and calling for a profile committee, and in particular, we're asking the President to meet us, who are these guys, and yet to grant a status separately from other public organizations that carry the load of the so-called Scout movement, yet a separate recognition of Plast by a national scout organization that fought for independence and 100 years ago, and today in the Russian-Ukrainian war. This is a unique experience of national patriotic and universal education for young people. And Bogdan Gavrilishin and Lubomir Romank, and a number of other people, are brilliant representatives of the Ukrainian nation. Thank you. So let's ask for a separate confession and the Plastic Act. Stepan Bandera, Roman Shuhevich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. You're a question, because the questions that are foregone, not the speeches, colleagues, to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u46	Can I talk to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u47	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u48	Thank you. I'm the only thing I don't understand when I'm listening to you. At first, the president said that we had many scout organizations, and then he said that there was a unique organization that needed law. And I didn't understand where the President's proposals were that he was proposing how to work on this bill. There's no wording. Can you explain how this is done? The second question. You know that the Plastic Law has already been approved by the President. Now all that's going on is signing it and publishing it, and you know why. And the Supreme Council cannot consider bills that have already been adopted and approved by the President because the deadline has passed. That means the bill is approved by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u50	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u51	When I answer your questions, I'll tell you right away, and I'll respond to your previous speech. The fact is that the President of Ukraine is completely interested in ensuring full and quality legislation on this direction of activity and development of children and young people. And that's why he's making a proposal not to promise, not to reject, but to redraft the legislative act. In addition, he offers these proposals separately for reference, and they come to everyone who, he sees, needs to be worked out. And in this part, I've already had a report, and I've reported to you -- in the part that relates to those violations of the Constitution of Ukraine and the actual legislation, for the sake of harmonization and for the quality legislative platform of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u52	Thank you. Colleagues, one question. Saucyuk, I'm sorry. Savichuk, Oksana Savichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this is really about those people who have been working in the public organization of Plastic for over 100 years, exclusively on volunteer and public principles that cannot be denied. The basic principles that Plastic is working on are raising conscious patriotic leaders of Ukrainian society. What we're asking, and it's very important to recognize on a national level, the National Scout Organization, as one that has recommended itself primarily as a national organization without any political orientation that deals solely with the upbringing of young people. So in fact, most of the people who work there, they work exclusively on volunteer principles. One request is to recognize those who have worked for over 100 years on volunteer principles and have brought up the conscious patriots of Ukraine. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, I think there will be another report by the head, a member of the committee. I think he'll be able to answer my colleagues' questions, too. Okay? If you don't mind. He'll be performing in no time. Just so you don't waste your time. Thank you. Ruslan Alexiyovich. Yeah. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Youth and Sports Committee, Mokan Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on State Recognition and Support of Plastic - National Scout Organization of Ukraine (registration No. 0976). During the discussion, the members of the committee supported the President in the need to amend the law, which should be built on the principle of equality of all scout organizations in Ukraine and the inadmissibility of any privileges of any one of these organizations. At the same time, legislation should reflect the historical role of the Ukrainian plastic movement in the acquisition and development of Ukrainian statehood and the national patriotic upbringing of children and young people. The committee is currently considering various proposals for the drafting of this bill. We ask for a decision and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Act on State Recognition and Support of Plastic - National Scout Organization of Ukraine (registration number 0976) to the Committee on Youth and Sport for Development. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Vasil Ivanovich. Vasil Ivanovich, a question to a co-rapporteur. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u57	Thank you. The honourable chairman, the honourable reporter, please tell us, do you think it is right to grant certain privileges to one public organization and perhaps to limit the rights and capabilities of other organizations? Now it's about unity before the law. And with regard to the encouragement for patriotic parenting, it would probably be a little tricky if competitions were announced on general terms and organizations could make their bids in this direction, win competitions, and get state support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u58	First of all, I want to say that the essence of the law being drafted is to take into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, and one of which was also aimed at ensuring that all organizations are equal in accordance with legislation. And secondly, I want to inform you, Nestor Ivanovich, that we are already having competitions among organizations in the field of national patriotic education. It's already happening. And those organizations that want to and can participate in these competitions participate in them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u59	Thank you. "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u60	Please pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u61	Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u62	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, what the President is asking me to do, I call it "please," probably very true, deserves, firstly, attention. First, the President as the subject of the legislative initiative. And secondly, and as head of state responsible for upholding the Constitution. And the second thing I'd like to say. This is about reading article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which regulates the direct action of public organizations in our country. And article 24, which before the law is equal, is all equal. And public organizations work within the limits of the laws. And what the President said is in this fairway. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u63	Thank you. Bondar Mikola Leonidovich. Mikhail Leonidovich, I'm sorry, "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u64	Thank you. Please pass it on to the Prince's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u65	Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u66	Thank you. Mr. Vasile, well, plastic is an organization that's not average, and it's funded by the Ukrainian state and the Krapadsky, and it's still being chased into the Pacific. And Peter Franco, Andrey Shepticki, Bogdan Gavrilishin, Roman Vaschuk, who is the ambassador of Canada, who is saying good-bye to the Ukrainians today, is all people who supported Plastics or were members of Plastics. And there are many other countries where these institutionalizations are carried out through a separate law of such organizations: both in the United States and Canada, Australia, Israel, Singapore, and many other countries. Because Plastic is an organization that works and has its history not only in Ukraine, but actually represents Ukraine around the world. I am interested in your personal position: does this organization deserve to be institutionalized through a separate law? What do you personally think, and how do the members of your party feel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Vassil Ivanovich, one more minute from the committee, if necessary, and we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u68	I hope that there is no national MP here who does not support the plastic movement and plastic movement in Ukraine. I hope so. That's the first one. The other one. We must go beyond the law and understand that we must act exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and the legislation. And if we pass a separate Plastic Law, it could set a precedent for other organizations. Support is available. The committee now has three suggestions on how to work on this bill. A working group will be set up, and within 30 days of the participation of all those who wish, we will work on this law in a way that pleases all parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, let's move on. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u70	What, from the faction, from the group? Nestor Ivanovich. Please sign up for the factions. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, "Golos" faction. Dear colleagues, we have three bills to consider today. If we go in and out of factions, well, it's going to be a slow process. Look for yourself. No, no, thank you. I just warned you, I suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u71	I'm going to be as brief as possible. I'm not going to pick three minutes without taking it away. Since Kennedy, there have been no presidents in the U.S. In fact, I very much hope that Vladimir Zelensky will probably be the last president who wasn't in the scouts was not on the platform, but he will base his signature under the law on the recognition of the importance of this movement and this organization in Ukraine. Any demonization of the pro-Russian forces about the exceptionalness, the impossibility, should be sent where it should be, to the trash bin of decommunization. The organization that contributed as much as possible, whose four members were at least killed in the eastern war that was fought by these forces, deserves recognition. And as for funding, so there's no manipulation, there's an announcement about Plastic. There was a request to the Supreme Council to grant to any organization, including Plastic, only on general grounds. Thank you to the initiators of the bill, which, in particular part of which is now in the Supreme Council, we are very grateful, it was the initiative of the deputies of the last assembly. I very much hope that this call will be passed by the Act on Recognition of the Plastic Scout Movement in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u72	Alexiyczuk Alexander Vasilovich, "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u73	Good afternoon, colleagues. I've been in a working group that's been working on some initial changes that are not yet accepted today, but I think we're working together. We've had a meeting with the heads of Plastics, and no one wants to film the Layer and film this bill, and I'd like to emphasize that. In addition, the plates clearly understand that changes need to be made, especially in the financing plan, in order to compensate. Again, as my colleague at Voice said, the funds will be disbursed, they're embedded in other articles of expenditure. And in this bill, we agreed that recognition of Plast as a scout organization that has made a big contribution to the development of Ukrainian statehood at various stages of its creation will be recognized, that's the only one. Next. I'd like to tell my colleagues at the OPCW what you're waiting for, and plastic will be recognized. I understand what you wish it wasn't. I'm sorry, but this will be done. So thank you all. We support this bill. Let's work it out. Again, all who want to participate join the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u74	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u75	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. We don't really mind. But it's like the law is one for all. Why not eagles, for example? It's better to fly. Dear colleagues, today we will support the President's proposals because he has taken the only possible position as a guarantor of the Constitution. In fact, he leveled the organization among thousands of others; otherwise, he could not be. We cannot make special social organizations right now, considering that there is a law that regulates their activities. We can do something special if the Supreme Council has the will to do it. But this particular cannot have more powers, more opportunities and rights than any other organization. Because such an example can provoke the recognition of such an organization as the movement of the Young Guards in Luhansk, for example. In Lugansk, which is now under Ukrainian control. So these questions only provoke, and they do not unite our country, unfortunately. Certainly, by supporting the President's proposals as constitutional, as only possible in this situation, we are in pain for unity, we are in pain that the cult of personalities is not interfering with the worldview of our small Ukrainians. Because these small Ukrainians are our future, and let them see with their own eyes, and with their own little minds what Ukraine should be, and to influence them by making separate laws, it is very dangerous. Once again, we are the opposition, but fair and fair, we think that the President's proposals are constitutional and are fair, we will support them. And in the future, we need to refrain from any propaganda, especially about our children. All the social organizations that deal with our children today should be equal before the law, have equal opportunities, and then all our children, wherever they live, in whatever language they speak, will be equal before the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u76	Thank you. Igor Volodymyrovich Gus, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u77	Igor Goose, Future Group. Here the previous speaker, representing the political power that brought war to Donbas, referred to the Luhansk region. (What are you up to? That's right!) If Plastic and similar organizations of the patriotic stench in the early '90s were recognized by the state, there would be no war on Donbass, and Mr. Shufrich knows about it. The representatives of the "occupational platform" will also agree that Plast raised Stephen Bander -- a man who is a symbol of our country -- the "occupational platform" will say that Plast raised Roman Shuhevich, the glorious commander of the Ukrainian rebel army. The layer brought up those boys who went to war first and four of whom are now in the grave. So I see in this room political forces that don't really want an organization like Plast to be recognized as a state. Because the Plastic Organization is not political, the Plastic Scout Organization, the Plastic Education Organization, the Plastic Organization, which does everything possible to keep the young generation on their feet with love for the Ukrainian State. I think that together with the People's Service we're going to change this law, it's going to protect an organization like Plast, and it's going to be okay. And I hope that the Office of President and Mr. Zelensky's team will also meet with the plastics, learn how this organization worked for 107 years. And we're all going to continue to support not only Layer, but any initiative that the Ukrainian state takes to its feet. And we will stand on our feet, when our children, our children, love Ukraine. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u78	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u79	I was curious to hear one phrase that we had to ensure that little Ukrainians were not involved. So please tell me, TV channels and other media that retranslate Moscow propaganda every day, they don't seem to affect the brain of small Ukrainians? And, uh, Plast, is anyone getting in the way? I've never been to plastic, I've never been to other scout organizations, and this gives me the opportunity to unbiasedly highlight the incredible role that Plastic played not only in establishing Ukrainian statehood, but also in raising leaders in various regions of Ukraine, in different parts of the world, to help us build a Ukrainian state. I definitely don't support the fact that plastic can be placed in a Soviet-type equation. Well, there's no scout organization in Ukraine that has expanded to the extent that we have Plastic today, with its more than 100-year history. It is this bill that provides the basis for how national and patriotic the non-political programme of Plastics should be incorporated into the curriculum so that in all regions of Ukraine children grow up with the view that it is their state, that it is a Ukrainian state, and they must protect it not only on the fronts but also in their daily actions. Finally, it was the linens of the most difficult times for Ukraine, and taking into account the latest developments in the context of Moscow's aggression at Donbassa, that were also on the forerunner, protecting the Ukrainian state. But, you know, in this context, I'm also concerned about another question: why are we here again trying to break the law across my knee? Well, you can't wrongly build the rule of law. The law, in fact, is accepted, the President did not sign it within the prescribed time limit, the President did not promise it in his due time. That is why this law is adopted. Why do we have to go back to the wrong place and look at something? And I have one explanation: The president doesn't like Plastic. If that's not the case, then this law should be in the way it is, because we don't discriminate against other organizations in any way. We've confirmed the role of Plastic here, in the end, that we have a Ukrainian state today. I don't want us to break today, both the Rules, and the Constitution. And, Mr. Stefanchuk, you have just stressed that you will not put to the vote questions as they violate the Rules. In this case, this is what it is. Layer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion and presentations is exhausted. No, Nestor Ivanovich, you weren't mentioned. Was your last name named? No! No! [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! No! No! Did you get a last name? Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u81	Thank you. I honestly don't understand what you're saying. I think Poland was pleased with the previous speech. Still, we need to think that we are being watched abroad. What's the big deal? There is the Law on Public Organizations, and this law protects, including the rights of plastics as a public organization. Another thought came up, and the President expressed his vision. What's the hysteria, I don't understand. Who said you didn't? We're against the only one. You know, I want our kids to watch the turquoise, the mock-ups, and the less you watch, the less you watch, the Bander and the Sukhevich. That's what I want. That's what I'm fighting for. And last of all, Carthage. Well, you know, I already talked about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! Sergey Volodymyrovich, we've finished the discussion, with all due respect. We're even done. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, a minute of motive. All right, that's the last of it. And please invite a colleague to the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u83	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, we are gathered here on this field, where we communicate, not to unify, but to unite. When I was a child, I was an Octoberer, a pioneer, and nothing bad happened, believe me! Raising children today should be without politics and discipline in schools. We don't have to involve our children in this policy today. And in this situation, we need to support our young people and children from all walks of life: right, left, middle. There is no need for disunity today. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, please proceed to the vote. Let's go to the vote, please invite the national deputies to the hall. I bet on the vote the committee's proposal to submit to the committee for further elaboration the Ukrainian Act on State Recognition and Support of Plastic National Scouting Organization of Ukraine, with proposals by the President dated 3.09.2019 (registration number 0976). Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[17:12:52]] For 313 Against 0, hold 5. Decision taken. Let's see the factions. The People's Party - 227, Opposition Platform – Life 15, European Solidarity – 22, Parenthood – 7, Future – 15, Voice – 16, non-fractional – 11. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Electoral Code with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 13.09.2019 (registration number 0978) has been proposed for you. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u85	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, adopted by Parliament on 11 July 2019 The Ukrainian Electoral Code cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine in the proposed edition, leaving the following. The Head of State, in support of a single codified legislative act of all electoral procedures, stresses that the relevant code should ensure proper regulation of the electoral process on democratic grounds. However, the code that came to be signed contains a series of provisions that do not conform to the Constitution of Ukraine, which do not take into account the recent positive changes to electoral legislation, and they do not comply with other legislative acts. In view of this, while supporting the overall conclusion of the single codification framework for electoral procedures and for the purpose of proper regulation of the electoral process, the head of state stressed the need for reform of the codex. A balanced approach will be needed as this legislative act is systemic, systematizing, and contains a whole range of conceptual money. In this regard, I understand that there is a position of committee to continue the study of this codex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u86	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Do you want to ask a question? Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u87	Alexander Kachura, Servant of the People. I want to tell you that we've been working with international experts, with representatives of public organizations, with lawyers for three days, and there's no way for us to finish the electoral code for the objective reasons in the terms that are foreseen. We need to continue the debate and this is a clear and necessary decision to support the entire Parliament, because electoral law is the fundamental right of citizens of Ukraine, I recall, according to the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u88	Thank you. Feldman Alexander Borisovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u89	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u90	Colleagues, well, that's not quite it. No, no, no, colleagues, wait. Where's Feldman? Can you see Feldman now? He signed up for the show. Please show me. No, Feldman, please. National MP Feldman, please show me. How, though, did we record a question if there is no national MP in the hall? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm asking you to understand how we do this in the Council, and I'm addressing the regulatory committee. So let's do it. Let's do it. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, I understand what you're going to hand over, but I'd like to understand and watch on camera to see when the National MP Feldman was there and how the recording of the performance took place. Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u91	Honorable chairman, honourable chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u92	I'm listening, Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u93	I ask you to pass the word to Germany, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u94	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u95	"The opposition platform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u96	That's right, Germany, not Feldman, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u97	I'm in the profile and I'm in the face.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u99	Please, please, let's count on the performance. And now I'd like to ask you a question more faithfully.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u100	You don't get it. Vasil Ivanovich, if you please, to the microphone, because you're not being heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u101	Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u102	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u103	Mr. Reporter, I would like to ask you, on what basis did you propose that this bill, which is essentially the veto of the President of Ukraine, should be suspended. And then in connection with what was he assigned to the plenary meeting at all? That's the first question. And secondly, if there's a law and there's the President's veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u104	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u105	And secondly, I would like to say, on what grounds do we ignore the actions of the President? We need to look at and outdo who wants the veto that the President has told us about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u106	Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u107	Thank you. Mr. Vassil Ivanovich, answering your question, I will immediately say that the point is that you will probably not deny that the Electoral Code should become one of the most important systems of codification that regulates election procedures in Ukraine. And, of course, his study and passing require more time. As far as I'm concerned. I'll tell you right now that you also know very well that, apart from the norms that exist in legislation, there are principles of law, these principles are wisdom, integrity and justice. It is by these principles that we ask that we continue to study as a minimum from the point of view of wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u108	Thank you, Ruslan. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u109	Shufrik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u110	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u111	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! By the way, I want an incident where, in fact, Vasil Ivanovich put up a card. In the workplace was the National Deputy Feldman's card. Well, I have to mention the famous cow and the rest of the text. So, reverends, come on, treat each other with respect. We, by the way, are also prepared to apologize for having lost our cards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u112	And the fine to pay, yes, I take it, the size of the salary? I think it's going to be right. I'm sorry I kicked your ass. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u113	I'm sorry that my colleague is on a faction because someone messed up his card. I'm sorry. I hope it's not a permanent tradition for us to apologize for such things. But it was not a vote, and it did not affect the vote at all. Next. Please tell me a question to Mr. Ruslan. What happened to him?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u114	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u115	Can't such a superprincipal law be worked out on the committee? And it's like there's still fuel in the engines. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u116	Turn on Stefanchuku's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u117	Dear Nestor Ivanovich, the fuel in the engines is long enough. And I think we're going to be doing just as well throughout this Supreme Council's entire office. With regard to this act, we recognize its scope, meaning, and importance for Ukraine’s electoral system. That's why we're asking, we're taking the initiative on behalf of the President, on behalf of the committees, to give a little longer time to study and make proposals. We are not rejecting this Electoral Codex. We ask you to work on the quality of what, unfortunately, you failed to work on in the previous Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u118	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I take it the fine can't go on, can it? Ruslan Alexiyovich, that's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u120	Question time's up. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and the construction of Zagorujko Alini Leonidivni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u121	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, Ukrainian national deputies present! At its meeting on October 1, 2019, the Election Code of Ukraine (Registration No. 0978), adopted on July 11, 2019 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, returned by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 13, 2019, to review its proposals. While supporting the overall compilation into a single codified legislative act of all electoral procedures and rules aimed at harmonising the regulation of the preparation and conduct of elections in Ukraine, the President of Ukraine also noted that the Code, which came to be signed, contains provisions that do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, do not take into account the recent positive changes to electoral legislation that are not aimed at improving it, and do not comply with legislative acts that are fundamental in the relevant sphere, ensure proper regulation and organization of the electoral process, effective control over the conduct of electoral procedures. In his proposals, the President of Ukraine made a number of observations on virtually every aspect of the regulation of the Code. Earlier, the Committee had engaged in a comprehensive discussion of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine by representatives of the authorities and almost the entire expert environment. And taking into account the considerable amount of normative material in the re-examination of the Ukrainian Electoral Code, taking into account the content of its proposals and observations, with a view to ensuring a detailed, comprehensive and qualitative review of the document, the Committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 132 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, to establish a period of review at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Electoral Code (registration number 0978), returned with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, no later than 90 days from the date of its return for reconsideration, by adopting an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, members of the Committee on 1 October 2019 and registered under number 0978. Dear colleagues, if you will. I want to draw your attention to the fact that today we are essentially not looking at the Electoral Codex, because it's a very complex document. In order to be able to prescribe it qualitatively and to take into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, we ask only the Supreme Council to extend the deadline for reconsideration. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u122	Thank you, Alina Leonidina. Dear colleagues, will there be questions for the rapporteur? No, it's not. They will be. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Gevko Volodymyr Leonidovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u123	Please give me the word of Alexander Korneyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u124	Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I am a member of the election committee on these issues. And it was just three days and three nights that Mrs. Alina and I and our colleagues were discussing the changes that the President is proposing to make. And we've really come to the conclusion that it just takes a lot of time to standardize and formalize these changes, more than the month that the Rules gave us. So I ask you to support the ruling and increase the terms of the electoral code so that we can actually make a quality document that will fundamentally change the electoral process. election landscape in Ukraine. So we ask the committee to support the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u126	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Alina Leonidina, will you answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u127	Yes. Well, I can only comment. In fact, we held three meetings of the subcommittee for three days. From morning to evening, he walked for three days, going to the committee. The committee was attended by almost all experts. That amount of work that we need to implement in this Electoral Code requires much more time. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to approach this issue with understanding and support, extending the consideration period to 90 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u128	This is Yuri Ivanovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u129	Please pass the word to Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u130	Don't hear it. If you can, once again, get in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u131	Dear Chairman, Your Honourable Reporter! Mrs. Alino, I would like to take this opportunity to express my utmost respect for you, knowing your principles and honesty. I would like to ask you, on the basis of what rule of the Rules and other rules of another legislative act, are you now proposing that the matter be transferred for the terms laid down in the legislation in force? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u132	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u133	Dear Nestor Ivanovich, I have an answer to your question. Article 132 of the Rules tells us that the law returned by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council for re-examination, after its preparation on the Main Committee, is discussed in turn at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council no later than 30 days after his return to the President's proposals. And now attention: unless the Supreme Council decides otherwise. Right now, we suggest you make another decision to extend the 90-day review period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time to speak and the question to the report is exhausted. Is there a need to sign up for factions? Okay. Please sign up for the factions. Thank you, Alina Leonidova. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u135	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. There is no limit to improving electoral legislation. If you remember, this Electoral Codex has its own paradoxical history, it has been lying there for a long time, then it was voted in the first reading with the famous 226 votes. Every single one of the active MPs said it was my vote, then he went for half a year to talk about the MPs, to the working group, then we took the amendments under the curtain of the previous Parliament for two months, and we accepted it. And paradoxically, after we've adopted November 11th, my friends, you won't believe it, until now, in violation of the rules of the Supreme Council, it's not published, a permanent final edition. We don't really know what we accepted on the second reading of July 11th, and we don't know to which final editorial President Zelenski of Ukraine is making his amendments, and the profile committee is asking 90 more days to consider this Electoral Code, the paradox of this bill is unique. And I had a question for Mr. Ruslan Stefanchuk. Of course, it's not Mr. Ruslan's fault, the previous Parliament, the previous Head, the secretariat, etc. Why was it not published, this adopted Electoral Codex? Who is to blame? In principle, to this day it has not been published, it is the first question. I mean, guys, what we need to do is look for the optimal model of the election system. Because what the President of Ukraine said, we support him. Election lists should be open, the proportional part should be open and accessible to citizens, there should be a reasonable balance between party lists, between parties and representations, and representation of regions. And we want to give people an answer that they're going to see a particular MP who's not going to hide behind a party list, that's exactly what the Electoral Code is about. Remember, too, that this Electoral Code should apply to the administrative reform to be adopted. Considered by the Cabinet of Ministers, will be accepted. The following year, and to put pressure on the conclusion of the united territorial communities. Because local elections await us, and this election code should also apply to local elections in Ukraine. Obviously, we will support those intelligent proposals by the President of Ukraine (if possible for another half minute) that apply to the properly simplified procedures for voting internally displaced persons who refer to people with disabilities in the electoral process and who will have equal rights. I agree that we should reform this law of the Electoral Code and adopt it definitively. Guys, let's give this another chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u136	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor! I remember how difficult it was for me to accept this law. Two months of virtually calendar, if I am not mistaken, for two and a half weeks, we have dedicated ourselves to the adoption of this law. I voted for him after very serious discussions, some political opposition, and my colleagues supported this law, they are now present in this room. And, you know, we're a little hurt to see that much. The new authorities, instead of adopting this law as quickly as possible and perhaps then having a discussion about making changes to it, improving it, we are actually delaying the consideration of this bill. For what? Because the committee, taking into account a lot of amendments, couldn't see it. I have the impression that Ze-command's turbine is turning into some kind of turbulence, I'm sorry. It seems that you are no longer on your own. It would probably be right to calculate the forces, capabilities and work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we don't have to consider transposing a double and principled electoral law on the Electoral Code. I think we need to review the dates of its beginning, and instead we're putting it off. I don't want to be a prophet right now, but I really didn't want us to vote again for the transfer of terms in the future, and, unfortunately, this practice is very, very familiar to me. You know, I look at, really, relatively, and sometimes totally, new faces. But my family, my colleagues, my methods are very familiar and very old! And I said in due time, the autumn will come, the October will come -- and there will be no new faces here, there will be no power that has no new face, there is power that bears responsibility. So today I'm asking you to be responsible, and if you go through with this right now, otherwise you can't call it, I hope you do it one last time, and this disgraceful decision will be the last. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u138	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity. Princely Nikola Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u139	Dear friends, you remember how long this Electoral Codex had been adopted. Those who worked in a sweet vocation remember how long they were being worked on by better professionals. Andrew Parubius, Head of the Supreme Council, created a large working group, where representatives of civil society, different political forces, different political parties worked. What was the goal? The goal was to destroy that oligarchic model that had been built in Ukraine since Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, when five oligarchs had their own privatized political powers, through the leader of this political force, they list people, and the people who go through the majority are very often following the corrupt system. You know for yourself all these flaws that we have. The electoral code allowed the electorate to actually elect both parties and MPs in these political parties, but unfortunately President Zelensky vetoed the Electoral Code, although this law, as before, had actually entered into force because all the deadlines had passed when the President could make his proposals. And the proposals he made are very difficult to call serious, since the proposal that Greens live to see that, due to the return, he found the voters who had overcome a certain legal barrier, but such a return is a world practice, since the introduction of a financial pledge cannot be regarded as a way to pay the election at the expense of the candidates. There have been concerns about gender equality due to the absence of a candidate’s replacement mechanism in the code, but this cannot affect the law itself, since the percentage of women and men on the lists is established, as in the code, in each five there should be at least two representatives of the same sex. So the President's remarks are not really serious, and the President's proposals don't exist at all. And we're very concerned that this is the levelling of the role of political parties, which has also been shown, by the way, by the way, by the fact that funding for small political parties is shorter and larger. In general, the larger ones have been banned, and the larger ones have been reduced, will lead to stagnation of that oligarchic model, which does not allow Ukraine to develop effectively. Because of this faction "European Solidarity" supports the Electoral Code, it will vote in favour of overcoming the veto, although there is essentially no veto, because this law has actually entered into force and passed here in violation of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u140	Thank you. Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich, "Slut of the People" faction. And then a minute of motive is Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, and we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about this saga. The electoral code, or the drafting, the adoption of the Electoral Code, for some reason everyone mentions only the Supreme Council of the Eighth Congress, forgets that the Supreme Council of the Sixth Assembly has adopted the Electoral Code in the first reading, and then buried it safely, forgets that draft electoral codes have been adopted since the 1990s. They were also formed by a working group under the leadership of the former head of CEVK Rybc, a draft of the Electoral Codex of the People's Deputies of Jovtak, many of them. But for some reason the Supreme Council did not give up on each of its convocations. I can't promise anything, but I also think on behalf of the faction that the faction will do everything possible so that within the time frame requested by the committee, and especially with the involvement of those experts who were called by the committee, a version of the code that will be adopted will be finalized. which will be accepted as a whole in order, let's say, to strengthen all of these work and expertise, and society, and our international partners from the Venice Commission, from the OSCE Project Coordinator's Office in Ukraine. So the position should be that the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call will finally put a dot in this bet — the development, the adoption of the Electoral Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u142	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich is a minute of motive. And, dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u143	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. I am grateful to the President that today this law, which has been passed with the violation of the Rules 17 times in this room, has returned to the committee. Maybe it's enough, as Nestor Schuffritch said, at hyperspeed, maybe it's enough time to reexamine whether there's a majority system or not? Sixty percent of the majority consists of majors going to the districts today, watching what is happening today, people talking face-to-face with people and turning to them because of problems. Where will people be knocking when there is no majority system? To the parties? To what? Where they'll be looking, please tell me. I'm turning from today to all Luhansk, from Donetskina, where war is coming from all over the country, from all citizens, please look at the voting system in the majority system. This is the most correct system in the world, the whole world and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet the vote on the basis and the whole of the draft regulation, number 0978/P. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:43:09]] For 270. Against - 1, holding - 37. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 224, Opposition Platform - 0, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherland - 9, Future - 14, Voice - 13, non-factional - 10. Dear colleagues, I was approached by national deputies with the following request. First, the Supreme Council Hall is not a dining room, it's not a smoking area, either Iqos, I didn't see the Iqos Friendly plates in the hall. So I also address everyone in the Supreme Council Hall who doesn't have to meet any other physiological needs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you very much and I hope for the understanding and constructive work of our Council. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you have come to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing responsibility for crimes committed against a minor, a minor, a person who has not reached sexual maturity, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 03.09.2019. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u145	Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, adopted by Parliament on 11 July 2019, the Act amending certain legislative acts to increase liability for crimes committed with regard to a minor, a minor, a person who has not reached puberty cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on the basis of the following. First. This law introduces a new form of additional punishment — forced chemical castration. This punishment is applied in an orderly manner to all who have committed such a crime, such as rape against a person who has not reached the age of 14. According to current legislation, particularly the basics of health - care legislation, compulsory medical measures against persons who have committed socially dangerous acts are permitted solely on the basis of the prescribed law. At the same time, the adopted law does not contain the procedure for applying such punishment. Under such circumstances, drugs will be imposed on convicted persons irrespective of their existence, which may lead to a deterioration in their health or death, and hence to a violation of the constitutional right to life. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed the need to adhere to the principle of legal certainty as an integral principle of the rule of law, which does not include unlimited treatment in law enforcement and inevitably leads to seduction. The other one. The law that came upon the President’s signature, the Cabinet of Ministers is also responsible for ensuring the creation of a public register of persons who have been convicted of raping a minor and other crimes in this area. The relevant provisions of the law may result from interference with the private life of a person who has been punished and from the complexity of his social adaptation, since the law does not contain the definition of the composition and content of the data that will be made public about him. The European Court of Human Rights, in its decision, noted that disclosure of information could have a devastating effect on the individual’s private and family life, his social and professional status, putting him in danger of isolation. The Head of State also notes that the provisions of the law have been adequately laid down without taking into account the changes made previously to articles 153 and 155 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in the use of terminology, which has been amended in accordance with Laws 227 and 2334. I also point out that Parliament has adopted a bill (registration number 6607, in parentheses 0887), which provides for other approaches to the application of chemical castration and the formation and use of a single register of persons convicted of crimes against sexual freedom. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine disagrees with the approaches provided for by law and proposes a balanced and complex approach to the issue of the use of chemical castration, taking into account the comments made. Please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u146	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Will there be questions for the reporter? No, it's not. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head. Ruslan Alexiyovich. No, no, come on, I think you can answer from here. Just a quick question, no more? No, wait, from the faction, colleagues, well, that. Or they'll all sign up now. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich, faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u147	Your Honor, I'm not a lawyer. I have the next question. You promise. The president promises this bill. This bill in the past was called, for example, with a very different political orientation and the opposition of the various political forces in the past convening, the bill was consolidated. Because these crimes we are talking about are, I think, some of the worst crimes against humanity, against our children. If you promise this bill. If the President promises this bill, what is the alternative? And when will an alternative bill be passed? Because this is a very and very important topic for society as a whole. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u148	I am truly grateful for your question. Similarly, the President of Ukraine has shown absolute intolerance to such crimes. But this does not mean that we can propose legislative initiatives that do not match quality and that they violate fundamental human rights and freedoms. And so the proposal of the President of Ukraine is clearly set out here. And I think that the next bill, which will meet the principles of legal certainty, the principles of legal literacy, the principles of human rights and freedoms, will be introduced shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I wouldn't just put it out of my voice and then ask people to sign up, or so we decided that one question. Andrew Anatolyovich, no, come on. Or he will now report to the co-reporter, the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Excuse me, Bakumov, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u150	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'm asking your attention because the question is quite socially sensitive. And the Committee on Law Protection was trying to work out such a position: first, to protect our children from unlawful attacks, secondly, not to violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the international commitments Ukraine has made, and thirdly, to take into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The Committee on Law Protection, at its meeting on 1 October 2019, reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Crimes, done with regard to a minor, a minor, a person who has not reached sexual maturity, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 11 July 2019. The committee agreed with the President's proposals for legislation, particularly regarding the need to change the approach to the introduction of chemical castration and the introduction and access to registers of persons who committed crimes against sexual integrity and the freedom of minors or minors. I want to point out that out of 100 percent of those who commit crimes in this area, the sick, or paedophiles who suffer from sexual abuse, are only 1 percent of these people. 99 percent are people who are mentally healthy and cannot be treated for a medical measure called chemical castration. In this case, if we apply this in a forceful manner, we will be in violation of article 3 of the 1950 European Convention on the Protection of Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. And it will be considered to be torture and, in fact, inhuman or degrading to conduct and punishment. This approach, as outlined in the President’s proposals, is contrary not only to the Constitution of Ukraine but also to our international obligations. At the same time, the committee is preparing for a second reading of the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the introduction of a single register of persons convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual immunity of minors or minors, and the strengthening of the responsibility for crimes committed against sexual freedom and sexual immunity of minors or minors under registration number 0887, which was already adopted in the first reading of the Supreme Council of the previous summons, and is preparing for a second reading, which is introduced as a chemical castration, but on a voluntary basis, if a person who has already served a significant term in places of deprivation of liberty can replace it with a voluntary castration, namely, the introduction of special injections that are carried out consistently on voluntary grounds. In this regard, the committee is currently working, working in working groups, the subcommittee deals with the issue, and it wants to submit to Parliament a quality bill that would explain all positions accordingly. Thus, the committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider the proposals of the President of Ukraine for the law and the results of a re-examination of the law. The committee’s decision was taken unanimously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u151	Thank you. Wait, there'll be questions for the reporter? Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u152	Thank you. The questions from our political power are as follows. When a committee that has decided to reject this bill under the President's proposed veto plans to draft a bill that will meet both European standards and the preservation and protection of human rights, even in such a delicate, difficult, indeed, issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I want to tell you when, by the way, sometimes your faction says there's a legislative spam. There is no legislative spam. We have taken as the basis the law of today, which was adopted by Parliament in the previous calling, by deputies who in the past were part of your political faction, in the last call to parliament. We're trying to work on it on its basis with our respective rights, with the Presidential, I notice the proposals and accept it in the next plenary days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u154	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, I'm just curious. When you speak such a position as the phrase: torture in relation to the person who committed the rape is proved in court, about the child, by giving her torture -- I'm just curious, do you have any underage children? You can imagine the consequences of the fact that if you were real, and you were telling us a lot of us here, that the "Serve of the People" party is only suggesting that we only accept what is widely supported by society, if we even hang these people here on the field, would society just applaud us? And you're very concerned that we're going to use torture in terms of child molesters. I'm just curious about your inner human position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u156	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy Volosin. I want to tell you that I have two children, and they're underage. And I'm not doing much politics here, but I'm trying to combine it both with the right and with the state, not just with politics. And given that we should be moving with you to European legal space, where the European Court of Human Rights has worked out its legal positions in its decisions, taking into account the European Convention, we are forced to propose rejecting this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u157	Thank you. Question time's up. Are there going to be factions? Sign up for the factions, please. Only those who wish to speak. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes tonight's meeting. Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u158	I'd like to explain a few things, Mr. Chairman, because at the time that this was happening, I was headed by a committee headed by Dennis Monastery, a law-enforcement committee today. Indeed, under the emotions of the Odessa region, two bills were introduced to the Supreme Council in Kharkiv, Kirovograd, when children were raped. The first bill was the authorship of Mr. Lášk, and he was the first to be noted by the President. The second stood at 0887, which raised 25,000, more than 25,000 per petition, and we also looked at it and preserved it, and we accepted it as a foundation. Today, it's very good that we did this, it's going to be relevant. When put to the vote, of course, the room under emotion voted the one standing first. So the first bill the President vetoed today, he passed. But I think what's different from that bill, the positive thing that's supposed to be in 0887, is that it's a voluntary chemical castration, because we all understand that paedophilia is a disease. So a person who has spent nine years in prison can then go to this stage of treatment if he wants to, if he does not - he will have a life - style. And the second important thing is to create a register of pedophiles, a register. When you move into any part of our Ukraine, you look, you have desires, you go to law enforcement, they go into the register -- and you look at who lives there. Perhaps those who are dangerous to our children. And this bill clearly states who will have access to it, which system is being created, and how this data is being entered into the register. So I think it's done right, so I support 0877 and I want a committee of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u159	Thank you. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u160	Dear colleagues, this is not really an average question that has already been discussed on various information sites. Yes, of course, the law adopted in Mr. Láška's paper is imperfect, and that's why when the issue was raised and there were representatives on certain talk shows and representatives of the People's Servants, it was about working on it, improving it, taking into account some of the suggestions and Mr. President's and the conditions that should be met with regard to avoiding the impreciseness of certain formulations. But today it is actually suggested that this law be repealed. In the same way, as the chairman of the committee rightly said, only one percent is such that according to clinical signs they are pedophiles. Right, and 99 percent are just perverts who need to know that they can be subjected to a very severe punishment that cannot be done. Which is far more severe than the mere incarceration in prison. We refer here to European standards, so in many European countries, same-sex marriages, more than that, same-sex couples are allowed to adopt children, which many psychologists, by the way, consider to be a hidden paedophilia. This is precisely a question that Ukrainian society does not agree with in principle, and many, by the way, who in Europe, with conservative principled Christian forces, also disagrees with such broad interpretation of the concept of "human rights". So today, instead of proposing a change immediately, we can do exactly the same, there's a lot of change in the turbulence here, and we can propose that we make changes to this law quickly. Mr. President is asking us to cancel it at all, and most will support it. I can't imagine how the majority will explain to ordinary Ukrainians why they fear that the right to privacy will be violated for those who have raped children. You know, frankly, these people don't deserve confidentiality by definition. So I'm asking you very much, take this seriously, this isn't just what came up, it's such a serious proposal to repeal this law, which is still imperfect, but it could be worked out. Ukraine will now become an international pornohab, including child pornography. We all see it in the news. These stories are terrible when parents film their own children in porn, even the demand goes abroad. Today, the corresponding circles, which have a huge impact, including on valid authority, want us to give green light to crimes against children today. It is not known when this new law will be passed, and at that time every paedophile will know that the maximum that threatens him is simply imprisonment. Where, by the way, we know prison practice from media publications that usually, if these people go to ordinary colonies, they're still in overcrowded because even Urks understand that these people don't deserve special rights because they've done the most: they committed a crime of sexual nature against children. And as a father of two underage children, it bothers me, and I think that by voting in favour of repealing this law, you're actually taking sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u161	Thank you. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that let's move on to less emotion, less words. I repeat for those, I see that there are misunderstandings. The committee today has Bill No. 0887 on amending certain laws (for the introduction of a single register of persons convicted of crimes against sexual freedom and sexual immunity of minors or minors and for the strengthening of responsibility for crimes committed against sexual freedom and sexual immunity of minors or minors). Please work, it is in the stage from the first to the second reading. Submit your papers, make your suggestions, and we will work with you on the law that will come to the second reading in this House. With regard to chemical castration and those who favor it, it should be introduced to all absolute, healthy and unhealthy. I want to tell you the other side of this question. Did you count how much it costs? Perhaps it is better for children to replace the organs that they are unable to work with, and it is better to spend the State’s money on this than to constantly inject these injections to all those who are condemned? In any case, this question is socially understandable today, high-level crime is very latent, that is, hidden. Recent research by the Council of Europe has shown that today in Ukraine 20 percent of children have been sexually abused in some way. So we have a clear position, an entire committee, regardless of the political factions, to reject this law, over 8,887 to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u163	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. With motive, Shahov, one minute, with motive. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u164	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. The honourable head of the committee, I have five children, and today this law, which has been passed and has been worked out, if you want to abolish it, first work on those laws. You're a monotony. When eliminating and increasing the harsher punishment of the bastards, those who can rape children, add a living, living seat to the prison! And today. Well, for castration, what you're saying there, Europe, not Europe -- not at all, should be in society. Dear colleagues, work on that one first. First thing you have to do is work on that bill, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a vote to support it. I am betting on the vote on the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the above-mentioned bill (registration number 0977). Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[18:06:31]] For 238. Against - 11, holding - 19. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions asking to replace the break for the performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. After the presentation, we close the evening session.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what has happened is what the faction "European Solidarity" warned us about. On September 18, you voted in favour of the amendment, we warned that this amendment would open up the possibility of importing electricity from the Russian Federation, from the aggressor country. You assured everyone that this would not happen. On October 1, the United Energy Company, close to Igor Kolomoyski, took 100 megawatts from the Russian Federation. What just happened is what we warned you about, it's the destruction of the economy, it's the destruction of our country's energy system. So the faction of "European Solidarity" is going to work and work on the law to correct this disgraceful mistake that was made on September 18th. And yet I will ask Parliament's leadership to bring it to Parliament more quickly. And then we will see when we consider this bill, who is a patriot, who cares for Ukraine, and who is going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-03-m1.u167	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we've done a pretty good job today. If I counted correctly, we passed: 3 laws in the first reading, 7 decrees, and in the second reading we passed 12 laws. Thank you all very much. Good evening! Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. I declare closed the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
