ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Are you guys ready? Everyone in the hall? Please prepare to register and register. Please enable registration. [[10:03:38]] 350 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues. AndriaJurzia. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And Ruslan Lukianchuk. Welcome to our friend's birthday party. And I remind you that today we are continuing to consider the historic, fundamental Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State Language. For days we celebrated two important historical dates: the creation of the Ukrainian Central Council and the 80th anniversary of the proclamation of an independent Carpathian Ukraine. And the Central Council of Ukraine declared the Ukrainian language a national language over 100 years ago, and the Parliament of the Carpathian Ukraine decided that the national language was the Ukrainian language. Our predecessors had no doubt as to what the national Ukrainian language should be. To date, we have an independent Ukrainian state where Ukrainian is the only national language. And our job is to adopt a law that guarantees its steady and unhindered development. The language is in time! But before we continue to consider the rights, I remind you that on Tuesday we have 30 minutes of performances from factions and groups. And so I invite all the factions and groups who intend to participate in the presentations to prepare for the recording. Please record statements from factions and groups. Please. Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the faction, is invited from the Peter Prashenko Block to the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Yesterday, the Canadian government announced a continuation of a military training mission in Ukraine. Canadian instructors have already helped prepare some 11,000 Ukrainian soldiers according to NATO standards. This is another testimony to what is waiting for us in the alliance, and the prospect of joining NATO in Ukraine is a two-way trip. On behalf of our faction, I would like to express my sincere thanks to our strategic allies. Also the day before, the NATO Council, on the other hand, strongly condemned Russia for the annexation of the Ukrainian Crimea and called for the return of control over Ukraine's peninsula. Another witness to Ukraine’s full support in the international arena is the most powerful nations in the world. All of this confirms the effectiveness of President Peter Prashenko, who not only restored the Ukrainian army but also created a powerful antiputinian coalition of Western nations. In addition, Peter Poroshenko is the only candidate for the Presidents of Ukraine who has a clear state strategy for the return of occupied territories and the opposition of the enemy, so he's afraid of the Kremlin, and that's why they're being set up by anyone other than Dusty. For Russia, the presidential election in Ukraine is the last chance to regain its influence over Ukraine and restore the empire. And the desire of Peter Dustenk to integrate Ukraine into NATO, the European Union is a way to preserve our statehood and bring Ukraine into the circle of strong democratic countries in the world. On March 30, Ukraine was to pass the historic point of no return, which is why the enemy abandoned all resources to influence the electoral process in order for the Ukrainians to choose a suitable candidate for Moscow. Our historic duty is to destroy the Kremlin's dream of a rematch and prove that we are a nation that chooses its own future. The closer the elections are, the more candidates show their true faces. Recently, for example, Julia Timoshenko called for the suspension of payments of subsidies with living money and the postponement of the indexation of pensions. For the sake of their own political ambitions, Julius Volodymyrna is willing to ignore the interests of pensioners, disabled people, the most vulnerable categories of the population, because the main slogan: the worse, the better. I want to reassure my fellow countrymen: both the indexation of pensions and the payment of subsidies by living money will continue without delay. This is the result of a consistent joint social strategy between the President of Ukraine, the Parliament and the Government. And I want to remind Yulia Volodymyrni personally that the bribe is actually her billion-dollar pyramids that were created with the involvement of Russian curators. And journalists have already shown where much of the money came from. It's only in the public of "barones of lies" that threatens oligarchs, and in fact, I think it works with them, it has a close business and a friendly relationship, which has actually been reflected in journalistic investigations. Mr. Bigus, for example, showed how Timoshenko got money from Oneshchenka, and we all heard a conversation with Igor Valeriyovich Kolomoyski last week. That's why the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko requires the immediate creation of the TSC to investigate information about the activities of the pyramids of Timoshenko from the bribery of voters. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u3	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u4	Let's ask all factions and groups to identify their representatives to form the TSC. And finally, the faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko assures us that the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State will be passed in this session hall. For us, language is a matter of national security. That's why we consider this law one of the highest priorities in this session of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Wilcule is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u6	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! I have to warn society about preparing large-scale falsifications in power elections, because honest victory doesn't shine on it, and they understand that. Forgeries in several directions. The first is for the polling stations: electoral bribery through the monetaryization of subsidies and direct distribution of money. The second is at the polls. To this end, an artificial mastermind was created, at the expense of the members of the boards of technical candidates registered by the HQ. And the third is by rewriting the protocols after counting the votes. As the money passes for the powder, as the carousels and the nets work, we'll see soon enough. Because the authorities haven't been able to provide video surveillance cameras at the district, even though they are. No one guarantees keeping ballots after the election. A tender for centralized archival boxing was broken. Next. So far, no one can say exactly how many real voters are real in Ukraine. The government moved the population census to the post-election period, how many millions of dead souls should vote in favour of an active president. At the same time, the authorities plan to print 60 million ballots. Nearly three thousand petitions have already been made to the police for violations of electoral legislation. The IMF Minister claimed to create networks called networks to bribe voters for the sake of Dusty. I want to warn all criminals in power: we're detecting all violations. After the election, you will be punished. I remind you, the sentence for these crimes is up to 12 years. We urge the leadership of the country not to go any further and not to use the force scenario in a futile attempt to remain in power. The government has not been tested by preparations for elections, but we and millions of our supporters will not only vote for the reintroduction of power but also defend the results of the vote in each polling station. We won't let the authorities falsify the election. And at the end of the day, I want to call people from all the factions in Parliament again, and I know there are reasonable people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u7	I ask you to return to the state language, Mr. Wilkul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u8	in all factions, there are in all factions. Don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u9	I'm begging you, I'm warning you, and I'm asking you to speak in national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u10	The language law is not a law on State support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u11	Please turn off the microphone. Please turn off the microphone. I'm making a request.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u12	Come on, I'll be Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u13	It's a deal. Please turn on the microphone. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u14	Andrew Volodymyrovich, if you feel that the language you speak is Ukrainian, you are very wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u15	The language I speak was spoken by my grandparents, my grandparents, my father, and my mother. And I grew up with her from the cradle. And in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I will not allow speeches in non-State language. I have repeatedly emphasized this, I warn you once again: I will not allow it. So, colleagues, from the Radical Party. Cooper, please, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u16	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. "They're trying to fool us again. Lying promises, cynical jokes.", somewhere we've heard this, probably from election rollers. They're trying to trick you again, double-crossed you in 14 years. They promised to meet all the requirements of Maidan, they came to power, and there was nothing to report. As they cheated in the parliamentary elections, using the name of the President-in-Office, and passed through the largest faction, well, almost the largest, in the Supreme Council, and again used this authority not for what they came here for. "Army. Language. Faith." Well, it worked out with faith. Tomos, thank God, and thanks to the Constantinople Patriarchs, who realized that Tomos wanted to use it as an electoral campaign, they gave it to him somehow quickly. And now the holy work, the sacred work -- the desire of generations of Ukrainians to get a church of their own -- has happened. But it is not necessary to take it forward and, excuse me, stretch the holy idea in such a way that it is no longer desirable to listen. Something didn't work out with the army, considering the scandals with the Croatprom, and if you look at it, who's developing the budget for the army, the President? But no, it's the Cabinet of Ministers. Who approves the budget for the army? No, it's the Supreme Council. So what is the role of the President-in-Chief? Well, of course, which is to put your people on all military procurement. And we see what came out of it. There's a language left. And here we are in this room for the second week in a row looking at 2,000, 800 amendments to what? On Thursday, as has already been announced in the media, the Supreme Council will vote on the Language Act, and the President, after considering it in a 15-day term as required by the Constitution, will solemnly sign the law before the elections and will say, "Oh, done." It probably won't work either. Even if you count the number of national deputies who attend meetings, something does not work. And if the Opposition Block puts its amendments to confirm, we have representatives of the powder party block, who are replacing them right now, and they're putting each of their amendments on confirmation. Probably not enough votes. And again, something didn't work out. Dear Ukrainians, do not vote for false promises, vote for those who really fight for your rights. You know who I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u17	From "The will of the people" to "The will of the people" is invited to the speech by Labazuk Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, dear Ukrainian people! The second week in a row, Parliament continues to consider the Ukrainian Language Act. This is certainly a very important topic, an initiative to establish our statehood. But we don't have the right to devote so much time to one question, one bill that apparently stuck to the presidential election. We have no right to bring the work of the legislative body into the clinch. Nevertheless, for a long period of time, people are waiting for us to take real steps. The Supreme Council must adopt laws to ensure the growth of our economy and to adopt further reforms. Therefore, the MP's "will of the people" group calls for the quickest possible approach to the draft legislation as a whole, the Language Act, and to allow Parliament to work and move forward. Colleagues, time is running out. This year, we have to make key decisions that will allow us to fight the poverty of the people, to stop the catastrophic labour migration that we have today. And tens, hundreds, or thousands of our countrymen leave every day for a better life. According to the World Bank, in the near future we will find ourselves among the 40 countries that have faced shortages of labor. Already there are about 6 million Ukrainians on the payroll. Paradox: Ukraine lacks labour today in construction, agriculture, transportation, and so forth. So what are we going to do if our people are going to work abroad and there's no one in the state to work with today? It is also remarkable that Ukrainians in the same Poland are actively opening up entrepreneurial activities. For example, more than 36 percent of companies registered in the Opole Voivodship belong to Ukrainians. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, together with the government, must create all the conditions so that our citizens can realize themselves here, on their own land, and not go looking for a better life, leaving their families, children, parents. We need to provide a platform for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, which will be the basis for the well-being of our state. Colleagues, on the other hand, I call for support for a decision that has long been considered and recommended by the profile committee: 9173: on the introduction of a dual education system in Hmelničina. And I think that's going to be a good example for other territories, so that we can look at it with you and give you the opportunity to create opportunities for business development in places. That's what's going on. It's traditional in the springtime at the Hmielnicki, we're meeting on the subject of generational encounters. It is a joint effort that enables the older generation to create for us in their own time and to leave behind the legacy that we use together with the younger generation, to consult, to communicate, to work together to put it into practice soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u20	To sum up what we've done and maybe discuss what we haven't been able to do. So I'm convinced that the wisdom of older generations and the energy of young people is the guarantee of the future. So today, I urge you and I to take real action, let go of the chatter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u21	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, I invite you to the words of National Deputy Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u22	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear representatives of the media, distinguished colleagues! I think the moment has come when we should be honest about what we are going to do to the newly elected President and what the country has left this President with. I think it's a question that relates directly to the state security of the country. What happened in the defence complex, the total corrupt Ucrobanprom system, no conclusions: friends of the President in the same positions, no interrogations in both the prosecution and the BSS. In fact, the country was left alone with terrible multibillion-dollar blood tools in the army. The second issue, which is equally important, is the fight against corruption, what the President-in-Office has proclaimed. Ten thousand dollars and 20,000 dollars in the D.A.'s office, B.S.A., in the newly created law enforcement agencies when business is done on blood. Can you imagine the amount of work that the newly elected president relies on in order to change this total system of corruption led by today’s head of state? Third, and no less important. The next head of state will have to decide what to do with our international coalition partners, who should make it clear that the Budapest guarantees given to the first country in the world -- Ukraine, which went on a voluntary export of nuclear weapons -- did not actually work all this time, and only now does the newly elected President have to make clear what should be done within the framework of the Budapest safeguards. And these guarantees should not be given to us by the Kremlin's puppets, Putin, Zacharynchenko, who is no longer there, or Plotnicki. These guarantees should be given to those countries that signed the Budapest Memorandum. And the last. What is happening now is no different from Janukovich’s team, which added 200 dollars to his pension 15 years ago. Look at the level of inflation and count: it's going to be the same. It's not a review of the pension system, it's not a real indexation of pensions, it's a two-off, not even a penny in the budget. And what happens after April of the month is the question again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u23	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u24	Which will be decided by the newly elected president of the country. But now it's a key question. And who will be responsible for the ruined Ucroborprom, the total corrupt system of law enforcement, who will be responsible for total voter bribery? I think it's gonna be Dusty and his team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u25	From the Self-Help faction, I invite you to the words of the National Deputy Irina Podoljak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, it is difficult to imagine such rhetoric, such as in the Polish Seima or in the Russian Duma, during the consideration of the bill on national language. If such a number of mancures were in the State Dume of Russia when their State Language Act was being considered in 2005, the Russian FSB would probably have put them in specialized medical institutions for examination or research. I would like to address the disciples of the King here. Remember when he was asked a hundred times in one of the interviews about when World War I began? Or World War II, he repeated a hundred times the same phrase: "Vollin massacre, Volin massacre." This reminds me of our colleague who. any amendment to the Supreme Council to the State Language Act would mention the Danube Mijatovich. I want to tell you that you can finish just as you finished the Kings. They're waiting for you there. President Prašenko had not one strategy for the return of Crimea and the return of occupied territories. Now he says he has another strategy. But there is great doubt that the President-in-Office has a clear strategy for establishing Ukrainian as a national language. Just slogans, just declarations. Society has changed. For people, speech is not a priority, for it has become a value to them. The value of silence. And values are not traded and values are not used as a tool for measuring presidential ratings. The approval of this law to the first round of presidential elections is critical. We do not humiliate Ukrainians; they are capable of separating the grain from the half. Please, not by word of mouth, but by deed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u27	Thank you. I'd like a word from the Rebirth Group of the Bondar People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, dear friends, I think today is probably one of the most important issues that really bothers people when you go to Ukraine and when you meet them, it's the absence of jobs, the lack of public industrial policy, the lack of economic recovery programs and the lack of any healthy thinking at all, common sense in the activities of our government and in our government programs. We're seeing a crazy story where today the authorities are trying to do a natural, instantaneous solution to the question, at least before the election, to give one or two months of subsidies to people in the form of supplementary pensions payments. And then what happens after May 1st, they keep quiet. They don't want to end up honestly saying that since May 1st they're essentially stopping these payments, that from May 1st they're increasing the tariffs, that since May 1st no one has guaranteed in Ukraine, how people will cancel the debts on the communal and all the other things. But yesterday I raised a question, and in the last days, I raised the question of how much money the authorities were spending on me. They find hundreds of millions to pay salaries to heads of state enterprises, they find tens of millions to advertise government activities (boards, newspapers, etc.), they find funds for other things, but they don't find money for people. The last example that we have just taken up and analyzed is how much money has been raised to support the government, the President's Administration and the Supreme Council. I want you to know these numbers because they're amazing. So this year, almost 7.6 billion dollars are planned for the maintenance of these three plants. In recent years the cost of maintaining the Presidential Administration has increased nearly two and a half times and is worth 2.5 billion dollars. Expenditures on the Supreme Council have tripled, amounting to nearly 2 billion dollars. And the record of self-preservation costs is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is our kind of talented government. This year, nearly 2 billion dollars will be spent to sustain the Ukrainian government, seven times the cost of 2014. Plus, at the expense of other government-funded programs, which are essentially going to go to government, they're going to increase the cost of financing it by twelve times. And the total cost goes up more than 3 billion dollars. This is the work of our government. This shows who they first care about. So on themselves, the family, they've raised the cost twelve times this year -- and they're worth over 3 billion dollars. And the cost of pensioners, helping our low-income families, they spend 10 million a year to help displaced people. This is their real concern, this is their real social policy and policies in terms of tariffs and everything else. That's why we're proposing. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u29	30 seconds, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u30	So we do suggest that we go back to the question that we talked about. Listen to the full report of the Cabinet of Ministers, listen to the report of every minister, right in the hall making a decision on who to release. And to be honest, we have to answer the election question whether we are ready to continue to support this whole armada and this pseudo of our own active power, such governments, and whether we are ready to continue to agree to such policies. I think that the election should give an honest answer and support the presidential candidates, who are completely different, modern, and otherwise think and realize that there should be a recovery of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u31	And a closing statement from the factions. From the People's Front, the head of the MaksimBurbak faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u32	Congratulations, fellows! The election campaign has come to a final conclusion. We are outraged by the level of confrontation and popularism among the presidential candidates. This plague has impressed all the voters of the electoral process. I emphasize: everyone. They promise low tariffs, an incredible increase in wages and pensions, an immediate increase in social assistance and payments. Even though they know the president doesn't have that kind of authority. The candidates are well aware of this, but they continue to deceive people. The People's Front has the right to ask candidates for responsibility for their words. Because the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk saved the country from economic collapse and stabilized the situation in 2014-2015. We've done the impossible in a critical country time. We know what responsibility and responsibility are. That's why Arsenius Yatsenuk didn't go to the president this time. We don't want to spread uncertainty among patriotic voters. We have shown by our example that the interests of the State are above all else. That is why we demand that the candidates, by all means, flood the country with empty promises, stop deceiving people. Stop destroying trust in the state and believing in the future is the way to go. We address all the candidates: we need to unite one task, the country has to go through these elections without shock, everything has to happen within the bounds of law and common sense. The results of the election must be acknowledged by the Ukrainians and the entire civilized world, the country's own people and armies have confidence in the elected President. While we're looking at another painting, it's about mutual accusations and total demagogism, wild populism, which is a hybrid war against Ukraine. Don't the presidential candidates understand that? Lying builds expectations in the electorate, followed by disappointment and mistrust in all politicians and states. Populism has also tarnished Ukraine’s unprecedented gains in recent years. Inadvertently, prokremljeve Medvedchuk’s TV channels have been involved in the sprawling of mossy populism and all sorts of deserts. By spreading demagogism, they are destroying Ukraine. Populism, lies, empty promises, the splinter of mutual accusations -- people are really tired of it. That's enough! Our differences are always used by the enemy. Be assured that any hint of disorder will be used by the Kremlin. Moscow has created and maintains a network of its television and influence agents in Ukraine. The People's Front has been demanding for years to investigate their activities and to hold them accountable, especially for Medvedchuk, his two TV channels, the Stolars' puppets, the Onishtenka statement. Unfortunately, the car is still there. As I return to the scandal surrounding the Ucroborprom, I would like to remind you that in 2015 the Cabinet of Ministers of Arsenija Yatsenyuk submitted to Parliament a bill of 3062, which increased the transparency of state companies. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u33	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u34	That was true of the firm Ucroprom. This would be a safeguard for possible corruption schemes. If Arsenius Yatsenyuk’s government had taken the initiative, we would not have had this disgrace today. Similarly, the People's Front calls for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry into Russia's influence on the electoral process in Ukraine. Only two factions responded to our initiative. If you are afraid to create a TSC, at least do not use confrontational and populism as your enemy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u35	Heroic glory! So, colleagues, the factions are finished. And we're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. And I invite the head of the Committee of Princess Mikol Leonidovich to the rostrum, and ask the right-wing authors to prepare themselves for discussion. Let me remind you, we're on line 490, the author is Musius. I can see that. But I think we're going to give the Princess three minutes, and I'm going to name your amendment right away. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u36	Thank you. It would be strange if I didn't say in these few minutes about today's day, because today is the birthday of the great Ukrainian poet and writer Lina Vasilovna Kostenko. Let's say hello to Lena Vasilovna together, because she celebrates this day just as we continue to discuss this important bill. [[Applause]] And this morning -- we're all using social networks -- I posted on my Facebook page a famous quote that you all know very well: "Nations don't die of heart attack, it takes away their language first." What we're trying to do from now on in the hall is revive, revive the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people. Make sure that no one else or any more English is taken away. You know, I'm tired of dissuading the various horrors, the scarecrows that apply to the law that we adopt. This law will not make it any worse for any Ukrainian, no one will be harmed by it because it is democratic. This law will make the future of our children peaceful in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lviv, and Odessa. Because when we take away our language, they want to take away our right to exist. As soon as we give a little weakness here, at the same time, the Russian troops protect here. Protecting the one nation. Because if we don't have a language, what are we different from the Russians? Nothing. And I'm really scared of two things. The first is that some of our presidential candidates don't understand it, they say how important it is, how unnecessary it is, what other important issues are. And the second is that other candidates for presidents and national MPs are trying to use it in some way politically. Dear friends, you and I are not currently engaged in politics in these elections, and not even in politics for the next, we are engaged in our future. Let's work responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u37	Thank you. We're not coming back, colleagues. We stopped at the 490s amendment. We call every correction. We are aware, both the head of the committee, and I, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, can't have any violations, but we won't be coming back. There are 490 revisions, and I give the word to Moses. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u38	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokolščina, Czervonograd. Please contact the chairman of the committee before proceeding. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not hesitate to communicate in the rostrum with the chairman of the committee. This is the case with the reverend Mr. Mustafa. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll ask you! In fact, organizationally, we need to set a goal for what we want to achieve. If we want to achieve the approval of the Ukrainian language, we would probably have to compromise with those national MPs who advocate strengthening this law, to which I refer myself. Instead, you're compromising with the party of the former region so that, God forbid, something like this doesn't happen to them. They'll never give a vote anyway. So you want them not to give a vote, and we too, considering not to be fully strengthened by this law, should not give our votes? Let's do it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u40	Let's maybe we're going to compromise -- and such painful articles that allow for these layers of Moscow language in Ukraine, this law, you know that they exist, we're going to take them down, and then it's going to be a joint, generalized bill, and a gift to Ukrainian society -- Ukrainian! –Ukrainian language, not with all the hangovers there, sorry for that word, with the Russian sheaves. So I'm calling for my approval because it's, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u41	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u42	Dear colleague Musi, well, first of all, I want to say that I don't have to compromise with you, because in most cases I'm a fellow thinker with you, I don't have to compromise with you. And I don't need to compromise with the so-called opposition factions, but actually the pro-Russian factions, because their goal is not to have this law at all. Neither do they seek this compromise. I have to compromise, yes, with those employees, like the media lobby, sitting in your faction, in our faction, in these factions -- all of them. I have to compromise with those who call themselves Democrats and try to do business with Russia by sitting in democratic factions. And when I make a deal with them, I'll invite you. And if you help me less compromise with them, and for us, the main goal is to have the law passed, we will also feel the limit of compromise, and where this law can be passed, I will consider it our success, even though there is some compromise, unfortunately, so far we need to go with these people. Thank you. As for your amendment, I want to say that, as I said before, it's not a matter of compromise, that's it. I understand your position, I respect it, but most members of the committee have decided not to change Article 7 of the Education Act from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u43	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u44	For the reasons I've been talking about before. That's why we rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u45	Thank you. I'm putting the vote to 490 people's deputies, Musia. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:40:29]] For-21 The decision is not taken. 491. Matkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u46	Bogdan Matkowski, 121st constituency. I'd like to put my claim on confirmation, because I think it only increases the position of the Ukrainian language in our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u47	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u48	There is a whole series of articles, as I have said before, that many still apply to that article that we haven’t changed, so I don’t have a comment. Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u49	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 491. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:41:25]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 492. Don't insist. 493. Don't insist. 494, Konstankevich. Don't insist. 495, Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u50	Good morning, dear colleagues. I would just like to inform you that the chairman may not base our amendment on excluding part five that we are offered to study Ukrainian language and language and education and education through the language of the European Council, passing the languages of other nations: Russians, Jews, Belarusians, and all others. I want to say to those who have spoken today that in Poland this will not be allowed. Read Poland’s Law of Ninety. In 2005, number 17, and you will find that there are only 9 national minorities, and there are 4 national ethnic minorities. I'm not saying that there's a regional language called that anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u51	I'll add 30 seconds, but I recommend a microphone closer to your mother. Turn it on, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u52	Yes, and that is why it has to do with it. With the last amendment, we ask that we apply and allow what we suggest that the training of personnel should be carried out at a wide level of use of all the languages that our people speak. Of course, it is basically Ukrainian and the languages of national and regional minorities. If that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u53	MikolakKneżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u54	Dear colleague Germanko, first of all, I am pleased that you are studying the legislation of the countries of the European Union, particularly Polish legislation. The Polish Law on State Language does not mention any minority language; other legislation regulates it as we do. The National Minorities Act also certainly regulates that. This law does not regulate in any way regional languages. So when you talk about the languages of national minorities, the indigenous peoples, obviously we have to take care of them, protect them. There are no regional languages in this law. If you submit an appropriate bill on regional languages, I assure you that our committee will consider it as quickly as possible and will move it to the Hall. You talk about it so often, I'd appreciate it if you'd put in a bill so we could look at it. As far as I'm concerned. No, it's a separate law, because it's a different law. And with regard to article 426 of the amendment, this amendment, 495, it also applies to the article of the Education Act, which is why we don't consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u55	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 495 of Germany and Shufrich. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:45:00]] For-16 The decision is not made. 496. Don't insist. 497th, Illenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u56	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Mr. Mikolo, dear colleagues, our amendment refers to the study of postgraduate discipline. in postgraduate and postgraduate education courses. We believe that in the world economy, the vast majority use English, if not the language of their own country, but not other languages of the European Union. Thus, we consider this to be the case. To adopt this decision as follows: "The language of postgraduate education and higher qualification courses is the national language or the English language." In order not to do that in too broad a formulation, which first would be impossible to properly control execution, and secondly, it, well, there is no need in this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u57	Thank you, Comrade Illenka. Well, first of all, obviously, as you understand, it's also a change to the language bill article, so the committee decided not to change it. The text of the law, among other things, would indicate that foreign language courses should also be conducted in English and a corresponding foreign language. The logic of this law, fellow believers, we do not hide it: we must protect the languages of national minorities, the languages of indigenous peoples. And when we talk about the languages of the European Union, obviously it's usually these national minorities that live in the territory of Ukraine, which are the bearers of those languages that the countries that are our allies in NATO, it's very important to us, so we're talking about them here. Obviously, we refer Russians to the national minority too, and no one is going to insult Russians as a national minority. But to represent the so - called Russian - speaking population. These are Ukrainians who, unfortunately, have been devastated and who want to learn Ukrainian, call them minorities and Russians, obviously it's wrong, and the logic of this law is absolutely against it. I simply explained the logic of the reference here to the languages of the European Union, which are, indeed, often mentioned in the exceptions to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u58	So I'm going to vote 497 authors, among them Illenko. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:47:47:47]] For the 18th. The decision is not made. 498th, Matkowski. Don't insist. 499. Don't insist. 500th. Don't insist. Fifty-one, yayuts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u59	Sergeyevtushka, "The Fatherland." Dear Mr. Head, in principle, I do not insist on voting, but I would like to receive a comment from the reporter. Since article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guides us in the study of languages of international communication, is set out in this way, and I have amended article 17, and I have asked for the following wording: "The language of postgraduate education and higher qualifications is the national language and official languages of international communication." Why I speak languages, the official languages of the EU, because, for example, there are languages such as Maltese, Latvian, Irish, Estonian, which are used in Europe alone less than one percent. I suppose it would be appropriate to write "languages of international communication" after all. And the second moment, Mr. Mikola Leonidovich's head, the committee is meant. Note article 534. Oh, the amendment, and the 561s, you're already using language in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u60	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u61	These articles already use the language of international communication. Perhaps one system should be tested and applied in the body of the law? Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u62	A respected colleague, according to this law, is a Ukrainian language in the language of international communication in Ukraine. So using that term, we meant Ukrainian in Ukraine. When we speak of the languages of the European Union, our principles are the requirements of the Association Agreement, because this agreement provides for Ukraine's deep integration into cultural, economic processes. This is an objective reality and we need to remember them, for this is part of our Association Agreement. That is why we refer to these languages of the European Union. Because, for example, if someone wants to publish a newspaper in Irish in Ukraine for the Irish people, we are not against it either, because we are integrated into a European society. As far as international communication is concerned, it's a little different. As I told you, it was Ukrainian, because there's no such clear term, it's not written here, in this law. Besides, as I was saying, we do not change this article 7. So that was the main reason why we didn't vote for it. Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u63	Thank you. You don't insist, do you? Colleagues, I'd like to report that I have received a statement from the People's Deputy Papiev demanding that I put in a few dozen rights. And I would like to emphasize that as I come to these numbers, I will announce it if the author is in the room. It's a deal, isn't it? So 502a. Don't insist. 503rd. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u64	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I thank you for the opportunity to discuss today, and today, and last weeks, to discuss a project on national language. Thank you, Nicholas Leonidovich, for what you did. And I hope that the paper that will be put to the vote will satisfy and be supported by most of the hall. I want to pay attention to two things. First. That's what they said, and OlyaBelkova sounded that amendment last week, and I still insist that when you work on it, you make key amendments, you still let private business run their business documentation in their language, if that's for example foreign companies. And 503 amendments. There can be no foreign language (this is 503 amendments) either in a foreign language or in a national language. Because you have to explain to the students in the national language, but you have to use a foreign language. That's why I'm asking at 503 to define "foreign or national," because you can't teach English without using English, but you can't always explain everything to children exclusively in English, you have to use state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleague Sold, well, first of all, I want to say about your observation that the language of business communication in our foreign companies is allowed in their own languages in the middle, that's what it is. We've been discussing this for a very long time, we're going to go to him, we're going to talk to you about it, but we took that question off. We have not removed the issue of their association with the authorities. Yes, of course, foreign companies with public authorities should communicate in the national language, but within the work process they can even keep documentation in their own languages, and we're talking about it. We're going to get to that standard. With regard to this editorial clarification. It's really editorial, it's logical. But since we've made this decision, as I said before, it's not going to change any of the letters in the law, in article 7 of the Education Act. And this is an article. That was the committee’s decision. I'm just here leading up to a well-known committee decision and explaining the position of the committee on a case-by-case basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u66	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 503. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:53:32]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 504th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u67	In general, this part of the exception does not carry any weight. The pervasive idea that greets us here is to indicate the language of the Ukrainian language everywhere, thereby discrediting the Ukrainian language. What is not clear when it comes to teaching in foreign - language institutions? How can you lead in a different way and write in a foreign language or in a national language? That's it. Has anyone actually studied reality, anyone done analysis? And so we ask: Don't make fetishes in Ukrainian, you'll discredit them. You can't do that. And it's a good thing I'm not alone in this position, but don't let that happen again. And, more than that, if you have cheated on Polish law, at least write correctly, not twist it to your ideological.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u68	I was hoping that. It's okay, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u69	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u70	I hoped that all the colleagues in this room were on a common pro-Ukrainian ideological platform and that none of us would allow ourselves to cheat anything from either Russian or Polish or any other law. And we obviously didn't allow it. To make sure of that, simply open up the laws of another country. What a colleague of Germany is talking about. Article 7, proposed by a colleague of Germany and a colleague of Shufrich, was included by the authors of this standard because of the fact that we are taught Russian very often, for example. The point is that a teacher uses a foreign - language teacher to communicate in Russian, teaching English, or some other non - Ukrainian language. This is about foreign languages being taught either in English or, as will then be recorded in the relevant law, in the languages of the indigenous peoples. But no. So that the study of a foreign language does not result in a ruse. Besides, as I said before, this is active article 7 of the Education Act, which we haven't changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u71	I bet on the vote of amendment 504. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:56:19]] For-22. The decision is not made. 505, Screepnik. Don't insist. 506th, Illenka. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u72	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We propose this amendment to make it clear that the language of non-school education and extra-school cultural education is the national language. In order for there to be no possibility of double treatment, so that we can clearly understand that extra-school education and extra-school cultural-educational measures, they have to take place in a national language so that we don't have this situation of language schizophrenia, particularly in extra-school and extra-school cultural-educational processes. In order to make this clear, we suggest that we adopt this article in our editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u73	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u74	Thank you. A respected colleague, in general, provides this in another part of this article, particularly in part one of this article. You're raising an important question. And this article, to which you apply, says that the State promotes the creation and functioning of educational institutions abroad, where instruction is given in the national language or in the national language. I mean, it's about, as far as I can tell, learning abroad. And that's what we've got at the other point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u75	So I'm betting on a vote of 506. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:58:17]] For-16 The decision is not made. 507. Don't insist. 508th. Don't insist. Anointing. 509, Matkowski. Don't insist. 510th. He insists. Lesjuk. Please, Lassiek. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, in this law, when we're talking about transfer, we're doing the stalemate, it's not entirely logical, because you'll see that in this law, how well the article is well written, how extensively the article on education is written. I believe that article 17 should be ruled out. The law under consideration is a basic bill. And the new parts of 7-10 are completely contradicting this logic and so on. It is suggested that this rule should be excluded, and if it is necessary to set language specificities in particular types or levels of education, this should be considered within the limits of changing the language law itself. In fact, we have this language law. We've completely moved into this one. And I don't think it takes that much reference, so we're giving a reference, as we're comfortable with, to other laws, we're taking into the body of this law. So I don’t understand why this article should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u77	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u78	Well, as I said before, it's a rule of law we haven't changed, so the logic here was the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u79	So I'm voting on amendment 510. She was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:00:16]] For-21 The decision is not made. 511th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you once again that in the Constitutional Court an unconstitutional review of the Education Act, including article 7, including other positions, is proposed to be declared discriminatory and unconstitutional. This is what you say at 5:00, you say, it's all there at the audit. And imagine there's hot heads here, stamping their feet, yelling, "Stop it! There's no need for procedure. Be quick to vote that the election requires law." You don't have to do that because in April they recognize this Education Act in this part of the unconstitutional part, so what are we going to do is clap in the palm of our hand, as stated by law? How can we view this right now? Let's wait, let the Constitutional Court say.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u81	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u82	30 percent of this law is based on the Education Act. And if they find it unconstitutional, the court recognizes the Education Act in this part, then our law will become completely worthless and will be put on display. So I would ask you not to do anything like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u83	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u84	Your Honor, if the Constitutional Court finds anything untrue in this law, then we will change it. I didn't understand your thesis that we're here somewhere because the election requires this law. Honestly, I don't see any presidential candidates who need this law in elections, and that's why we've been discussing it for so long. But I see presidential candidates who are honest citizens who, regardless of the election, understand that the law must be adopted. And I see the people in this room who understand that. And that's why I believe we'll take him. And it's not a pre-election action, it's our conscious civic position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u85	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 511. The committee turned her down. Who's behind it. Please vote. [[11:02:59]] For-13. The decision is not made. 512th, Brenzovich. 513th, Illenka. 514th. Okay. 513th, Illenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u86	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We propose this amendment to complement article 17 with a new part of this content: "In the educational and educational fields, and in the educational and educational activities carried out outside the educational system, teachers, academic and scientific workers are used in the national language or in a foreign language in the teaching of foreign language disciplines." So that's the new part of this article, and we're going to offer a clear solution to all aspects of language application, including in the territory of the educational institution, and even outside its territory, but if these measures are part of the educational process, in order to remove all possible speculation and clearly protect the interests of the Ukrainian state language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u87	Dear colleague Illenko, we've had a lot of discussions on this. I thank you for raising these questions, because we all know that children go to Ukrainian schools very often and come home to speak another language, or at breakes the same teachers speak another language, thus treating their responsibilities. But at the same time, there's a very thin line here, because the logic of the law is that we shouldn't regulate private communication. This amendment partially includes the possibility of private communication. We can't regulate this law by private communication, for example, not in a teaching facility. Because, and also because we haven't changed Article 7 of the Education Act, this was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u88	Thank you. So I'm putting 513 to the vote, it was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:05:18]] For-28 The decision is not made. 514th. He insists. Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u89	Mr. Mikolo, I'm going to have a little discussion with you. This amendment, the previous one, did not apply to private communication, because it clearly says, "in the educational territory and in the educational arrangements that take place outside the educational institution." I mean, it's some sort of exit lesson, a tour, that is. But it's some kind of educational process, it's not private communication. And the 514 amendment, we propose to add a new part of this content: "Those with hearing impairment are guaranteed the right to learn Ukrainian Sign Language and to learn Ukrainian Sign Language. People with impaired vision are guaranteed the right to study for textbooks and other materials written in Braille." I mean, to guarantee the rights of all our citizens to learn Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u91	Thank you, colleague Illenko. Article 5 of this law is a separate article on sign language, and there's a lot of yours. This is actually an item of yours that's been counted. It's not included in the part about the Education Act that makes sense, as I said we didn't change article 7 of the Education Act. But you're right, it's actually counted elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u92	I'm betting on a vote of 514 by a group of deputies. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:07:02]] For-16 The decision is not made. 515th, Musius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u93	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokolščina, Czervonograd. The honourable head of the committee, this is a specific amendment. It's very difficult to agree with your logic that you want to cement article 7 of the Education Act with this law and not extend it or change it or not add it. In fact, the logic of the legislative and legislative process is that when we see the imperfections of an article of another law and when we form a basic law, and this law is more basic than a partial Education Act that only regulates education, we should expand it here. I don't see any risks at all. If we're anything, God forbid, we're going to take unconstitutional or something bad, there's a Constitutional Court. Why are we now trying to replace the Constitutional Court, fearing that, God forbid, something will change in the Education Act? He'll be in charge, this law, according to his logic. It's about editing, it's about after-hours education.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u95	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u96	Can I finish? It refers to the environment of our children and their formation as individuals in an institution called "school," which, to private conversation, it has nothing to do with private conversation. Education in public and municipal institutions should be exclusively Ukrainian, including after basics have been completed and are noncurricular. So it's perfectly logical that this amendment right over here, I ask you to vote it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u98	Thank you, fellow Moses. First of all, the law makes it very clear that the language of education is the national language. It's all the language of education. It's all the language of education. It's all the language of education. Obviously, all of this should be in the national language. The fact that preschool education should be a national language is also part of the first law. So if a colleague of Illenko's with whom we debated spoke outside the territory, your amendment applies to the territory. Obviously, this should be in Ukrainian. We can't even control private communication in the territory, but if this is part of the educational process, it has to be the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm voting on amendment 515. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:09:48]] For 20 The decision is not taken. 516th, insists. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u100	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, Sokolščina, Red City, 124 constituency. This right here is about those educational institutions that are outside the primary school, but which, logically, should apply and refer to municipal government property. So for example, sports schools, they're in utility? Yes! In fact, it would have to be completely philosophical to regulate such a concept as "the foundation of education," for example, cultural societies. Please, please, if a minority wants to create an educational or sports facility for a minority, it is their business. And as for state and municipal, including outside of school, they should probably be Ukrainian after all. So the amendment is logical, and I also ask you to think, maybe when there's a committee meeting, after all the right-wing discussions, find this compromise that I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u101	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u102	Thank you, fellow Musai! Well, first of all, as I said, the Education Act clearly says that the language of education is Ukrainian, and it's everywhere. There are other questions that, for example, sports schools, they're not considered educational institutions. But it's a matter of regulating not this law anymore, because this law can still extend to them along with article 7 of the Education Act, because they actually get an education there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u103	Thank you. Do you insist on not voting? Please vote. [[11:11:48]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The next is amendment number 517, People's Deputy Matkowski. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u104	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u105	Ah, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u106	Bogdan Matkowski, 121st constituency. I don't want to put this amendment to confirm, because I understand that there is no way in the room to vote 226 votes in favour. So all my future adjustments please count. Please don't bet on confirmation. But, at the same time, I want to ask the presiding officer, and the report that in the end, I want to give you one minute to speak as well as for this very fact, and for being one of them. One of the co-authors of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u107	Thank you. You. And next, amendment 518, you won't insist, either, will you? Okay. Thank you. Let's move on. Amendment 519. There is no insistence on the National MP Kishkar. Next is Amendment 520. Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to tell those colleagues of mine who are imposing Russian language in Ukraine in the form of a splinter. I'd like us to know that Ukraine today is about the hatchery, it's 9 million per nation, it's Russian, and 1 in 3 is Russian. Take it, I take it from the last census, as the Polish Language Law teaches, and draw conclusions. And the second. Dear colleague, where do you expect the English-Polish, Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Slovak, Polish-Polish and Polish-Russian? What, he's gone? So I want to report to you on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u110	Dear colleague, we will gladly consider your bill on Ukrainian-Czech sorghum, I promise you that. This amendment was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u111	Do you insist on voting? Yes. Please vote. [[11:14:47]] For-13. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 521. Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u112	The committee's esteemed head, this amendment applies right up to the end of the incomprehensible logic applied by the committee, to the fact that in some cases there is a need for separate laws, and in some cases it is better to legislate in this law. If we follow the logic that, for each case, there are separate laws and rules of exile, then this law is going to be absolutely declared in general. That's the explanation why in one case we write what we should, and otherwise we decide we shouldn't. Because in fact, from my point of view, you don't need this, this is the 9th paragraph of this article. And this lovebird and the expert on all the grains and nine million Russian and all the others is ashamed to be the judges of the Constitutional Court who don't even understand what law they're discussing, what law they're discussing, the law on the use of national language -- Ukrainian as a national language, not all kinds of grains and everything. So learn first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, will there be a comment from the committee? You will? Yes, please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u114	Thank you, fellow Musai. I want to tell you that from the point of view of formal logic, you are right, because this article does not carry any meaningful load. And her expulsion will not change the substance of this bill at all. But we've come out of the logic that you and I discussed before that we don't change the part. in article 7 of the Education Act, but does the presence or absence of this article change the substance of this law? The committee did not support this amendment without making any changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. 521 repairs. [[11:16:55]] For-12. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 522. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u116	Thank you. It's about state language in science. Well, again, we're going the same way. Once again, you limit the publication of public, oh, scientific work only in Ukrainian or otherwise in the language of the European Union. Well, you should know as a whole that science works are actually interesting in different languages, where they developed, where they were mostly used. For example, psychiatry, it all comes from German, and the basic work of scientists is often German. Russian language, it is used enough in technical science and has been taught enough population size. Why do you limit yourself to European languages? Well, we are. There's nothing left for the European Union? What, we don't have Chinese languages, no Asian languages? What are we doing? If we limit ourselves exclusively to the languages in which the legislator decided that people should communicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u118	Dear colleague, well, first of all, I ask you not to appeal directly to me, because I'm not the only one who wrote this law, authors of many, committee members who discussed it, a lot. This is a collective decision of committee members and drafters. What it is. By the way, about the German you quoted, it's obviously German -- it's the language of the European Union. We signed the Association Agreement, so far no one else. We have declared that we are integrating into the European Union, creating a common and educational and cultural space. Yes, it's our country's national policy. Yes, people went to Midan for this policy. Yes, it was protested when they wanted to cancel. So essentially, this was rejected. Moreover, these same scientific articles need to be read. Our people in many Asian languages simply don't speak, they won't be able to find reviews for that language. That is to say, science in this language cannot develop in Ukraine, and no one forbids the reading of works or textbooks in those languages. Please. Nor is it forbidden to study them, to use them in scientific work, to translate them into Ukrainian or EU languages. But if you want some rare language, even the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u119	Thank you. You insist on voting. Please vote, 521 amendments. Excuse me, 522th, but... [[11:19:42]] For the 18th. The decision is not made. This was amendment 522, I'm sorry. And we're moving on. Amendment number 523. Please, National Deputy Germano. You will? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u120	Thank you for being an expert on the law. I want to read about how the science and activity issues have been resolved in Poland. It clearly states that the fifth and tenth laws governing the application and provision of Polish do not extend to scientific and creative activities, scientific and technical terminology, which are traditionally used. So we're essentially subtracted from the sources of learning. And speak what you read. Where to read if we do not have a publication and everything else? Now you will not go to Moscow or go to other scientific centers recognized in the world to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u122	Well, colleague Nimchenko, I'm not going to Moscow right now, unlike you, and it's probably not the biggest science center, with all due respect for Russian science. In the law you quoted, so beautifully demonstrating the knowledge of Polish legislation -- it's very commendable that you study it -- it's about spreading the Act on State Language to all languages, including the languages of indigenous peoples and national minorities. But since the law does not extend, the committee rejected your amendment. Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u123	Do you insist on voting? Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:21:48]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 525, People's Deputy Guljev. Twenty-four? Please, National Deputy Teteruk. 524th, Teteruk. 524th, the author is. There's an amendment, the people's representative of Teteruk, please, 524 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my amendment, which I ask you to take into account, says that part of the first article of the draft law should be supplemented by the following sentence: "For international scientific communication and publication of scientific results for the purpose of familiarizing them with the international scientific community, English or other official language of the EU countries may be used." I respect our position that we want Ukraine to dominate the territory of our country. But we're not talking about proof that we can and must communicate exclusively in Ukrainian, but we're talking about expanding the ability of our scientists to speak all the languages available in the EU, which is 24 languages, by the way. And to avoid manipulation, 24 languages of the European Union do not include Russian. That's why we're expanding the possibilities for our scientists. So it would be appropriate not to consider the amendment editorially, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u125	Thank you. I take it there's an insistence on taking full account? Please, let's vote. [[11:23:32]] For-36 The decision is not taken. 525 amendment, People's Deputy Guljav. Don't insist. 26th National Deputy Germano, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I would like us to go back to what is being created in this bill. Believe me, it's not just a question of learning a language, it's about the obligation to learn a particular language and to eradicate Russian language, to eradicate the science system that we have behind the Brown movement, it's the only one. And so this introduction we ask to exclude the same norm and not to allow, to prevent, in the Mosaic Law, the rules of credit for other languages, the question of science, the other languages, the question of science, the question of science! Science is a free, creative sphere of human activity. It's his right, scientist, and you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u127	Thank you. The committee would like to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u128	Since, in accordance with the Constitution and the decision of the Constitutional Court, the order of the functioning of the State language in all public spheres, obviously we were unable to support the German colleague's decision to exclude in general the part concerning science from this legislation. As for the discrediting of other languages, they are not regulated by this law, evidently there is no discredit here. As for the study or prohibition of any language, it is likely that this article does not even apply closely to the subject of science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:25:51]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 527, People's Deputy Screepnik. People's deputy Papiev insists on confirmation. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u131	Turn on the microphone to the People's Deputy Papi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u132	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable Ukrainian citizens who observe the Ukrainian Supreme Council on TV or listen on the radio, I would like to point out that once again there is a violation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. And for the transcript, and for the next submission to the Constitutional Court, I'm saying that I gave a written address to the Ukrainian national deputy, where he made all the amendments. If one of them is missed, I think it would be a violation of my constitutional rights to the legislative initiative. And with regard to these amendments. It's like the people who wrote them don't know what science is, what science is, what science is about appreciation, what were the eumetric systems like scopus. By the way, you'd like to ask your ministry where the minister is on your quota, there's an order 1112 that sets out the principles of evaluation of scientific work. So you would first, in writing the law, read the valid normative documents that are there. Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u133	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u134	I want to say that the amendment made by my colleague Screepnik is partially included in some of the scientific publications in English and other languages. With regard to the use of other languages, a part of the fifth allows for such cases to be done with regard to language or foreign literature. A West Korean or an article on Korean may be Korean. Similarly, Japanese texts can be read in Japanese without translation. Other standards are taken into account where they are not too broad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u135	I mean, the offer to take the whole thing into account? Please vote. [[11:28:16]] For-22. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 528. People's deputy Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u136	Dear MikolaKnežicki, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, my bill reads as follows: "Part 2 of article 18 of the draft Law, which reads: "Science publications are published in the national language or in English, or in other official languages of the EU." What is it? It's about expanding possibilities. And I will insist on every such course, because when we communicate with our scientists, we have received a feedback that would show that it would make things easier for them and expand their opportunities. We don't have to narrow it down, but we have to give you all kinds of options to increase the ability to communicate, to communicate, to communicate, to communicate, to publish. The main thing is to get Ukraine closer to the situation when 25 languages of the European Union will be Ukrainian. And then we'd have proper legislation. So thank you for taking this into account in an editorial way, but it would be appropriate to take it fully into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Please vote in favour of this amendment in full. [[11:29:49]] For-33 The decision is not made. Amendment number 529. People's MP, Golovajev. Please, the People's MP is putting Papiev on the stand for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u138	Thank you. Honourable National Deputys of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, I have just looked at the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how many Ukrainian national deputies have a scientific degree in one faction or another. You know, it seems like this article has been published separately, and the scientific activities in Ukraine are separate. It seems that the people who wrote this article do not understand the trend of world science at all. If you're writing today, and the suggestions are that "English and EU language," and if you look at the preceding article, you don't single out English. I mean, does it seem that the world's processes and those called Brexit are somehow going apart from the Supreme Council of Ukraine? There's China. Today, it is essential that Ukrainian scientific activity, including the language of those nations and those who are taking the lead in science today. I'm asking you to put this amendment on full validation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u139	Sir, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u140	Dear colleague Papiev, see, this is the phone? That's Chinese right there. It's all written here in English and English, because Chinese are smart people. In addition to learning their language, they translate English and use it actively in science. And we will only welcome the study of Chinese and Chinese literature in the original language as a world achievement. It's the law that allows it. And on the other hand, these are your manipulations that we've actually agreed with the scientific Ukrainian community after a whole series of round tables, including the Orientals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Please vote in favour of this full-scale amendment. [[11:32:06]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 530, People's Deputy Podowak. People's Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u142	I can't see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u143	Amendment number 530.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, about an article that refers to the language of science. I must tell you that in preparing for the second reading, this publication, which is proposed to the national MPs, was passed on to various kinds of scientific societies and scientific organizations and scientists, and it was accepted, approved and accepted by them in this editorial that the committee proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u145	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u146	I'm asking you to support this amendment completely in its main form. Please vote. [[11:33:29]] For-29 The decision is not made.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u147	Thank you. 531, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues and a distinguished reporter! I want to be heard again, especially by Ukrainian scientists. We have the estuary systems that are approved by Ministry of Education and Science Order No. 1112, with the changes that have been made to it. By the way, we have 108 magazines that have been implemented by the Scopus system. What you're doing right now, along with the Ministry of Science and Education and you want to write in this law, is going to destroy Ukrainian science. If I am writing a scientific paper that today and in this field of activity, if Japan is leading, I am interested in having a choice in what language this scientific work should be published: either in Chinese or other, in Korean. Why are you running a scientist now? Actually, you know, it's a lower plentuse anyway, and you want to destroy Ukrainian science by this law. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u149	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u150	Dear colleague, Ukrainian science, of course, is now at a very high level of development in the United States, in Britain, in Israel -- where your authority, when you were in power, threw it out. And we now, in Ukrainian, we return to Ukraine, we allow it to function normally and work normally. Obviously, these articles were in line with the Ministry of Education and Science, as well as the law as a whole, for it deals with many different issues. Obviously, there is nothing in this law that would conflict with science’s development. And in general, this article, my colleague Gopco, was an editorial, but there was only a suggestion in the previous version that this would be done only with the consent of a scientific council. And this rule, that the publication in other languages only by the consent of the scientific council, has been removed. That is, the language article was just expanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u151	Please, one more minute, Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This article on the language of science, which is in our bill, is completely consistent with the legislative framework that we are working on right now. And now in Ukrainian science is dominated by the national Ukrainian language for scientific publications. But the languages of the European Union are certainly used for scientific publications in science bases, in scientific bases. These bases are defined, there is a list, and basically all the publications that are being made there are in the languages of the countries of the European Union. At the same time, some of the publications are being made in other languages and now, but our law also provides for such an opportunity for scientists who are doing, let's say, in the humanitarian sphere, if it's culture, religion, art, something else, it's written here and it's taken into account editorially. If any other thing needs a language other than the national language and the language of the European Union, such a right is reserved for a scientist, including scientific bases and publications in such journals. So there's no problem that some people are trying to blow up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u153	Thank you. I'm putting in 531 confirmation papers. The committee supports it and the committee urges everyone to vote in favour. [[11:37:30.]] For-56 The decision is not made. 532nd. Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I'd like you to hear me because scientists who do science in Ukraine understand what I'm saying because they live in this situation every day. You are imperative in law to limit my constitutional right as a scientist to determine what language I should write a scientific article. I mean, one thing when you're in institutions, you're limiting public institutions, yes, but today you're taking and you still want Stalin, yes, to regulate, regulate science. It's my right to write Chinese, Korean, Russian. At least you took it and wrote in the law that according to scientific or scientific technical advice. So you're actually putting Ukraine's science at a dead end today by restricting my constitutional right to use that scientific language that I see as promising. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u155	Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u156	Thank you. Look, the next amendment, the People's Deputy Constantine Zhewago, is terminology. There was simply a need for the word "scientific and scientific and technical" to be excluded and brought into line with actual legislation. And that's counted. And the next thing you know, the words "high school" change to "high higher education." And we rejected that because we removed it from part two. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u157	So who, in order to take the amendment 532 fully into account, please vote. [[11:39:33]] For-16 The decision is not made. 533rd, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will still be patient, because somehow those authors and those who report this law today are so far away from the reality of Ukrainian science, either they were plagiarists or something else. And when you look at the quality of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have over a hundred Ukrainian national deputies with scientific degrees. We have 38 Ukrainian national deputies who are doctors of science. Your Honor, where are you scientists? You've done your own research, and you understand for yourself that I'm right today. Give a scientist the right to choose what language to write, not to limit his constitutional right, and to develop. Because you don't have enough of what you've included in this scopus, and we don't have today's scientific editions, even where you can print a scientific article that goes into the evaluation. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u159	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u160	Dear colleague, you know very well that right now Ukrainian scientists have begun to integrate into the world's scientific space, to communicate freely in Ukrainian, to print their articles in international scientific journals, to go to international conferences. They came out of this "Radians ghetto," where Ukrainian science was throughout Soviet time. And it's this law that brings out this "getto," this law increases the number of languages you can communicate with: the languages of the European Union, the English language. The article you're talking about right now, which you're asking for confirmation, the author asked that only with the consent of a learned council, because I really understand those authors of the amendments that insist that Ukrainian science develop in the course of learning the world's experience. We expanded it, we deleted this "according to the scientific council." Now you're proposing again that only Ukrainian, only with the consent of the scientific board, should this be published. We've just expanded that concept. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u161	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 533. Please vote on who is responsible for taking it fully into account. [[11:42:06]] For -14 The decision is not taken. 534th. There's a list. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian scientists, you all hear me, and you realize that the reporter is very far from Ukrainian science today. Actually, I'm him. That's the impression he's saying. You know, you're talking to a person who, well, something in theory is out there somewhere, and in practice, I'd like you to remember, maybe you've been doing some scientific work. So if a scientist wants to write an article in a Russian magazine today, do you want to limit it to writing an article in Ukrainian? You are now forcing him to write in English and to send him to a Russian magazine. Or a Chinese magazine. If I want to write an article in Chinese, you want me to be restricted by this law! Dear colleagues, listen to me, allow a scientist to determine for himself the language in which he works science and writes scientific articles. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u163	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, first of all, the law is only valid in Ukraine and speaks of languages of scientific protection, not creative activities or publications. But write, for God's sake, any language. But somewhere I have some small suspicion that your bold boasting that you can write an article in Chinese is a certain exaggeration. For some reason, I don't think you can write an article in any other language besides Ukrainian and Russian. And we want our children to be able to write the same way in English, French, German, Polish, Hungarian -- in all the languages of the European Union, and, of course, Chinese, Japanese, too, in these big eastern languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u165	So I'm putting amendment 534 to the vote on confirmation. The committee supports. Please vote. [[11:44:16]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five-five.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u166	Yeah, she fell off some time later, we're looking at it, but it's about education. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read what we're writing: and so on, one or more disciplines can be taught in two or more languages: national, English, other official languages of the European Union. It's very commendable that we're so worried about getting us into the European-speaking space. The language of the European Union, if I am not mistaken, the official 28. But at the same time, do we have the right to make such discrimination? I'm not saying that all these 28 languages are really more important than Chinese, Japanese and so on, or Spanish, but here we have another language, we have indigenous peoples and national minorities. Should we be more concerned about the languages of the European Union or our own? Where is the Crimean Tatar language, where you go to Hebrew? Where is the Belarusian language that can only be protected here in Ukraine? I'm grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u167	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u168	Thankfully, what we're excluding is you want to rule out Russian language while you're doing it all the way up here, but, nevertheless, you have to do it honestly, you just have to write it. I would suggest replacing the words "official languages" and so on, with the exception of the language of the aggressor or who it is or who it will be. And that's the way it's gonna be, you don't have to do things like that. I'm in the state language, but I respect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u169	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u170	Dear colleague, well, first of all, I want to assure everyone that we're struggling with the effects of the imperial Russians, but we're not fighting the Russian language. It's really a big, beautiful language, like any other language that exists in the world. All languages are big and beautiful, none of them can be fought. That's why the term "aggressor language" was not included in this article because the language of an aggressor is changing. We don't always have an aggressor. I believe that we will adopt this law and build such a strong country that no aggressor will fear to pry his nose at us here. As for the standard in part of the EU language, your amendment is taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u171	I bet on the vote of amendment 535. Who's in charge of taking it into account in general, because the committee counted it in part, I'm asking you to vote. [[11:47:13]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. Five-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u172	Thank you. Once again, I will try to be concise. And I'd really like the reporter to understand what this is all about. Imagine, Mr. Reporter, we have this factory called Motor City, which is in Zaporozhye, so you know. And the scientist of this plant writes a scientific article on the improvement of one or the other part of the aircraft engine. Most of these engines are the Russian Federation. Now, by politicizing this law, you limit the right of a scientist from the Sici Motor to write in Russian to someone who actually has their copyright on this aggregate, write an article and be heard. So you're limiting the constitutional right of a citizen and a scientist. Don't go into science! You're all that could be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u173	Dear colleague, dear colleague, this law in no way prohibits a scientist from writing articles in any language, including Russian. This law does not prohibit the singing of Japanese songs, the dancing of Chinese dances, the wearing of embroidery in Chernobyl, as you once initiated. These may be all aspects of other laws. Maybe you're initiating a law that forbids some languages from writing articles, but our democratic majority and the coalition of such prohibitions will not initiate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u174	I bet on the vote of amendment 536. It's part of the committee. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[11:49:33]] For the 10th. 537, Kishkar and Krivenko are authors. I give Krivenk's word for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u175	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with part five of article 19, I ask you to put to the vote closer to the conclusion of the morning session, because at evening this is not possible to make the following proposal: not to close the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the conclusion of the 5670-d draft and work without interruption and night and Wednesday and from Wednesday to Thursday night, and Thursday, so that we can adopt this bill because there are huge risks of its approval. We see that the fifth column is triggering this process. So now there are three in the Presidium who can preside over the meeting, walk quietly on the amendments, and then, at the end of the day, before the bill is actually considered and voted on in general, the rapporteur will professionally read out the amendments that were broken, which distort the body of the bill. Mr. Kishkar, Mr. Laesuk, formulate the amendments that are fundamental to taking account of, to vote on and to vote on Thursday. Otherwise, we have great risks of not adopting this bill at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u176	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u177	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u178	538th, Lassiek. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u179	Thank you. I'd like to talk to the previous speaker. What you're saying right now, and what you're up against right now, is called democracy. So we need to learn to live in a democratic environment where we are considering laws in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations. Again, I'm going to the reporter. If you write the norm of the article in imperative form, that is, the language of science in Ukraine is national, you can imagine, right now, you're setting up scientists, because total politics will lead to the next. Imagine that a scientist wrote an article in Russian. Then, the next day, your "knocker" comes, passes these materials on to the U.S.S.A., and the U.S.S.A. comes to this scientist, and he starts snarling at him for writing a scientific article in Russian. What are you doing? I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u180	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u181	You know, fortunately, the Stalin and Soviet times that you want us to go back to, where your knockers were running and knocking, they're gone, so no one's going to run at anyone, and that's another country. Aah! It's a different reality, wake up first. That's different. And secondly, no one, as I said before, forbids writing to authors even in Russian even in Russian. And I hope that we will work together to stop the Russian aggressor and coexist peacefully with a peaceful neighbour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u182	I'm voting on amendment 538, it's considered partly by the committee. Please vote. Please make up your mind. Who is it to accept fully? [[11:53:01]] For-16 539th, Germany. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u183	First of all, I'd like to talk about before. Thirdly, do not manipulate the court’s decision. What you're carrying doesn't fit the reality. Read the decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that in the State language, authorities, executive authorities, representative authorities, bodies that carry out their functions in the field of public relations. This time. And the second. And it ends with the use of "language" in a plural sense, which is the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. And I don't have to, I apologize, lie in front of people! That's the first one. And the second. I'd like the chairman to give me the answer, who is Kirilenko here? What are these, agents of influence? If he's working here, there's already some interest.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u184	30 seconds, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u185	This is unacceptable! This influences the distortion of willful expression! Otherwise, we can't keep our mouths shut. These are elements of the legislative usurpation of our power. We are as subjects of the legislative initiative and as subjects who adopt the law. I'd like to make a legal assessment and a constitutional assessment of what's going on in our country. We don't have the principle of power-sharing, do we?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u186	Thank you. So I'm giving you some help. Viacheslav Kirilenko is Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, who heads the working group of the Cabinet of Ministers in preparation for the draft Language Act. And at my invitation, he's in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and he's taking part in a discussion when we're talking about the key points of the bill. I stress that this is a government formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a government that fulfils its obligations to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in particular with regard to the study, analysis and evaluation of the bill. At my invitation, he is present, and no rule of the Rules prevents or prohibits the leader of the working group, the Deputy Prime Minister of the government that we have created, to participate in analytical work and to discuss in Parliament. Please, my lady.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u187	In fact, this amendment by a German colleague and a Shufrich colleague tells us that regional languages can also be used in science. So it's actually the destruction of the body, the sense of the law and the desire to divide Ukraine into regional languages. Obviously, we were unable to support such an amendment in such a law and we urge you to vote with a red button against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u188	So I'm putting 539 amendments to the vote. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:56:35]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 540th. Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u189	Dear reporter, Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokolščina, Czervonograd. As you know, for two or four years now, even systematically, when we adopt very many, first of all, economic bills, we've entered such a standard as that of the aggressor country and the occupying country. I think mental aggression, like Moscow against Ukraine through weapons, through the media, through the Fifth Column, which is here as a representative. Who here tells stories about the teachings of the Blacks, and so on, will continue. Do you think it is possible to systematically introduce into this bill this standard, which you have partly considered, of course, thanks for the amendment, and in part did not count. So the unaccounted for part refers to anything that binds the aggressor state, namely, the language part of the activity in Ukraine of the aggressor State. Maybe you should.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u190	We're done, aren't we? Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u191	Thank you, colleague. I share your concern for the aggressor state's influence, first of all cultural. It's because you and I are preparing legislation together. At the same time, when we talk about Russian language, in the law, we're going to anchor it as the language of the aggressor state, in my view, it's not true, because I'm convinced that we're all going to win, and I've talked about it. Besides, it's not the language of the Russian-speaking people, as we are taught, but of the Russian minority, which is not guilty to anyone because an aggressor from a neighbouring country attacked us, it's part of the Ukrainian people, the Russian minority. But in addition, Russian is a national language, such as the official language in Belarus and Kazakhstan, which has a different status. So that's the only way we're going to solve this question. So this was part of the first part of your revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u192	So I'm voting on amendment 540. The committee considered it in part. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[11:59:02]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. 541. Chi Papiev or Doubenkov? Make up your mind. Let's get Debts for diversification. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I would also like to place 541 applications for confirmation, which also applies to scientific work, and restrictions, again, on the issue of scientific work in the official languages of the European Union, the English language. Instead, I would like to advise the very many authors who are now speaking on the right: do not separate people, do not talk about any five columns, people voted for us. If you brand our faction that we are the fifth column, and we represent the interests of the multimillion-dollar population that voted for us. The opposition begins with this room. Not everyone feels the same way about what is Ukrainian. If your family is Russian, do not create obstacles and obstacles to the use of this language, and that is all. Now you want to. Of course, you will vote on this law, and of course you will unite this hall. But by joining in with this hall and by reducing the use of Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u194	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u195	You're breaking up. That's what we need to talk about. If you're a real statesman, what you're talking about right now, you don't have to put all Ukrainian citizens under one language plan. We have multilingualism, richness, multireligiousism. That's what we have to take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u196	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u197	Dear colleague Dolženkov, well, first of all, our multilingualism is covered with the blood of many millions of previous generations, because of this multilingualism, killing people, throwing dissidents in prison, it didn't just appear. This multilingualism is real when we talk about indigenous peoples when we talk about people who have always lived in Ukraine: Hungarians, Romanians, Poles. This multilingualism is indeed vindicated when we speak of the Russian minority living in Ukraine. But when we talk about Russian - speaking Ukrainians who want to learn Ukrainian, and we give them time and opportunity, these Russian - speaking Ukrainians are only grateful, and that is what can unite you and us. Because if your voters want to learn the language, let us help them learn the language. If the Ukrainian-speaking voters who voted for you too, I believe they want the Ukrainian language to be protected and their rights preserved, let's protect these rights of your constituents. And most of them among you, among your constituents, I am also convinced of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u198	So, colleagues, I've got a statement, but we're ready to switch to 12:30. It's a deal, isn't it? So I'm voting on amendment 541. Please vote. It was partially accounted for. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[12:02:30]] For the 15th. The decision is not made.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u199	So, colleagues, right now according to the Rules, I have a 30-minute recess to announce. And I want to say that after the break, we're going to give the speech from two factions, 12:30, and then we're going to continue the examination of the rights. So 541s, colleagues. The 541s have already been voted on. 542nd. 42nd, Papiev. Whose authority? This is Teteruka. If Teteruk insists, I won't give it to you because he has a priority right to declare an appeal. Yes. So 542th is after the break, Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. I'm asking everyone to return to the session room. A statement from two factions came to the fore. I'm going to give you three minutes to speak to the representative of Fatherland, Sergio Vlasenko. Please. And then we'll go back to looking at the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, when we, as the Party of Fatherland and our candidate Julia Timoshenko, went to the polls, we wanted these elections to turn into a real debate about how Ukraine can cope with the difficult, difficult challenges facing Ukraine in these times. We wanted to talk about how to actually increase people's well-being, how to change tax policy so that Ukrainian business can work honestly and legally in Ukraine. To enable young citizens to get credit, to be able to develop their own small business and not to run away from Ukraine, but to seek happiness and live, and to work, and to be happy in Ukraine. Instead, we received a totally dirty campaign. The campaign when President-in-Office Peter Prashenko does not ignore any of the ways that our candidate is dirty. He doesn't usually do it with his mouth, he does it with the mouths of technical candidates, he does it with the mouths of those people in parliament he controls. He's doing it cynically: he's telling a lie, then he's distributing it through his TV channels, through his controlled television channel, a direct one that can be called today, Russia Today, through other television channels that absolutely do not follow any journalistic standards. Well, yesterday we caught one of those liars by the tongue. Yesterday, the Pechersky District Court ruled that the information distributed by BP faction director Arthur Gerasimov concerning Julia Timoshenko, regarding the government of Yulia Timoshenko, was false. Of course, he's about to go rogue, I've seen him in the session room, he's going to demand a replica, he's going to tell us that there are circumstances, there are facts. But yesterday a court decision was rendered that gives me today the right and the opportunity to say from this rostrum of the Supreme Council that Arthur Gerasimov was a liar. A common-law liar who is not responsible for his own words, who has no proof of what he says. He uses his authority as a national deputy to sow lies in order to tell false information. I emphasize once again, but this will not prevent us, it will not prevent our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, from explaining to the Ukrainian society what it does to the Ukrainians and showing how to bring Ukraine to the level of honest, fair, European countries, with a level of prosperity that is in European countries, with equal opportunities, such as those in European countries. And it'll show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u202	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u203	And Julia Volodymyrna will continue to show us how we could live if not for the last five years of this power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u204	Thank you. Please give Mr. Gerasimov a minute. Please, Mr. Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u205	Dear Ukrainians, what have I just heard? According to Julia Timoshenko, her 2009 speech in Munich was supported by NATO. That's what another lie is just from "barones." The whole world has heard Julia Timoshenko in Munich make a statement that Ukraine does not need NATO. The Cave Court didn't hear that. To avoid being loud, I quote part of Julia Volodymyrni's speech at the Munich Conference in 2009. She said in Russian, "There are high-level issues that Russia will take if Ukraine and such countries move to NATO." It turns out that Julia Timoshenko, by means of an interim ruling by the Ukrainian court, is trying to cancel her speech at the Munich Conference of the Decade. And in general, honestly, this story reminds me of the "democratic" decision to ban the criticism of Yulia Volodymyrina Timoshenko in Ukraine 10 years ago. And guess what court then made that epoch decision? Right, the Caver district court of Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the amendments. And we stopped at 542 revisions. National MP Andrey Teteruk, I give you your word, please. And to the rostrum, we invite our unchangeable rapporteur for this bill, Mr. MikolukKnezhick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u207	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, my bill has been taken into account in part, for which I would like to thank the members of the Committee, and they have come to the preparation of this bill. Instead, I still want to insist that the appeal be fully taken into account, because I would like to take into account that the last sentence of part of article 18 of the draft law reads as follows: "States published in international peer reviews in other languages are submitted to the relevant scholar (scientific, scientific, technical, technical) of the Council in the translation of the national language, or in the English language. The scientific board may also waive the requirement to translate articles into another language of the EU countries, which is a widely accepted language of international scientific communication in the relevant scientific field." And, in particular, I would like to add that Ukraine is really -- it's already our opponents -- a multicultural, multinational, religious state, but we have to understand that the state has the same language as the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u208	Thank you. As I understand it, you do not insist on voting, but you have expressed your position and your political power on the bill. Dear Mr. Papiev, your letter is a guide to our presidency. Please comment, Your Honor. And then we move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u209	Dear colleague, your bill is partly taken into account because it is essentially intended to give the student of the council the right to refuse to require the translation of articles published in international professional publications in other languages than the languages of the European Union. Such a goal is achieved by using the words “may be binding. ” So this is the right of a scientific council to have its own judgment. So I would ask that this amendment remain partially accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Let's move on. 544 revisions. Please, the People's Deputies. None. 545th. Please, National Deputy Musai. It's a walkie-talkie, it's been rejected, it's rejected, and now we're 545ths, and before that, you weren't there. 543 revisions. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. 543 revisions. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u211	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear scientists of Ukraine! I still want to be heard. When we made an oath to the Ukrainian National Deputy, there is the first sentence of the first paragraph: "I undertake to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." Your Honor, if the Constitutional Court's decision is not binding on you, it may already be taken differently, even though we have sworn otherwise. The Constitutional Court’s decision makes it clear that scientific language is not a public language and a language of public relations. Hence, scientists today need not be confined to the national language alone. We would accept that if it were the authorities of the state, the authorities of local self-government, but let scientists determine for themselves what language to write their scientific papers. I'm still asking you to put this amendment to confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u212	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u213	My dear colleague, I don't know if you'll be happy about this or not, but I want to tell you that the Constitutional Court's decision is not only binding on me, but it's also binding on you. In this amendment, colleague Guljav writes that articles published in international peer reviews in other languages are submitted to the relevant scientific, scientific and technical council in the translation of the national language, and Mr. Guljav asked that this be removed. But the thing is, in that case, there's a lot of people. People don't know all the languages. And what was in the committee's decision was in an approved editorial committee: "For foreign-published languages, the articles should be submitted either in translation or in a short public-language Annotation." Thank you. Thus, the amendment was taken into account in part by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u214	Mr. Papiev insists that we put to the vote an amendment that was partially counted by the committee in full. Please vote in favour of the full-scale amendment. Please. [[12:42:12]] For the 10th. The next amendment is 545. National MP Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u215	Dear reporter! Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokolščina, Red Town. Thank you for the partial accounting, of course. And I'm not going to insist on a full vote, because you've even expanded a little bit in that paper that was accepted by the committee. So you could actually write "completely counted." Well, that's what it is! I'd like to say to this Soviet scientist, who's from the Blacks, who still stands for Soviet standards. Forget the Soviet Union, it's gone and it doesn't exist. And if a Ukrainian scientist calls himself a Ukrainian scientist, it has to be Ukrainian, it can't be international, it can't be proletarian, it can't be Soviet or anything. Get out of this shell of Russian-level lovebirds and look at Ukrainian scientists and ask them now how you can protect the dissertation in Ukraine and what you need to do to do about it. This is not a problem — in English or in English to protect the dissertation or to write an article. So your manipulation, I think, will find a proper assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u216	Please. You insist. Let's move on. 546 repairs. Please, Vasjunik, national MP, please. As you recall, the Rules do not allow us to discuss amendments but only one statement. That's why the author is Vasjunik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. In part, the committee took into account my law concerning the translation of scientific articles into national Ukrainian at the request of a learned council. That's why I don't insist on voting. Thank you to the committee for the readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u218	Yes, you don't insist. Let's move on. 547th Anointed One. None. 548th. It's an amendment by Semenha, Ostrikov. But Papiev here insists. Oh, Mrs. Golly insists. You're a gentleman after all, Mr. Papiev. At least there's something good about this room! Please. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, our collective amendment was included in the full scope of this article of the bill. I want to thank the committee, it's really important for us that we don't hide Ukraine from the outside world and that we really care about the freedom of academic science, that Ukrainian scientists use it as a national language to protect scientific dissertations, as well as English as language of science. Thank you. I'm not betting on confirmation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u220	Thank you. Let's move on. The next one is 549, it's the People's Deputy Papiev. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u221	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I still urge my colleagues to endure somehow, yes. I'm not going to comment on some of those over there, some of the comments about where modern Ukrainian science is, and where this modern Ukrainian science, which was at the same level as 1991, in the Soviet Union, is already a question for historians. But I would like to remind everyone here that, honourable colleagues, there is article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which stipulates that state officials -- they only do it in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Irina Volodymyrna, my head!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u222	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u223	I'd like you to hear it. When you give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, show me the rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which would provide for action in the manner prescribed by law. The difference between us and the citizens of Ukraine: citizens can do things that are not contrary to the law, and we can do things that are consistent with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Papiev, for the trailer for the work of our session, thank you very much. And I would also like to point out that the Deputy Prime Minister's line was given in connection with what you asked him to comment on and, of course, I did. Yes, there were statements from the opposition block faction demanding that we comment on "Europe." I couldn't say no to you, because the opposition would then say we're sorry, please don't hear your voice screaming in the desert. So, of course, I gave the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, who you're grieving about today, you've been mentioning him all along. And now we're asking the People's Deputy to amend 549 completely. The committee counted it in part, Papiev asked for it in its entirety. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:36]] For -6 The next amendment is 550. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u225	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, if confirmed, say that there is a complement in the regiment of doctors of science of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the national deputy of Yemen, our colleague, as far as I know, has received and protected the degree, the scientific degree of the doctor of science, so I welcome him. I would like him to be the kind of person who has the freshest sense of where to go and how to deal with the issues of language, scientific language in Ukraine today, would like to hear his opinion. But with all this I want to draw your attention, hear me out. Give a scientist the right to determine his own scientific language. Science is not a language of public communication. I want to be heard again, and I want you to understand the decision of the Constitutional Court in general. You want to put these people back into some kind of framework that nobody needs that violates European constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u226	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u227	Dear colleague, we're talking about the 550th draft of the People's Deputies of Zhevago. This amendment simply brings the terminology of the Language Act into line with the valid Education Act. Obviously, a scientist has the right to choose for himself the language of research and writing articles and publications, and no one is setting him up here. Thank you. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u228	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next amendment is 551, the people's representative of Kremen. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u229	I want to thank the committee for taking part in my editing. In fact, it was the dissertation of persons who acquired a degree in Ph.D. philosophy, the dissertation of persons who acquired a degree in doctoral science. Finally, I agree with the comments made by the committee members, so thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u230	Thank you. We're moving on. The next amendment is 552. People's MP Papiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, let's still define this, because here, when I read in the terminology of this law, "the languages of the European Union," then the proposals of the people's deputies say "English and the languages of the European Union." We still have different languages in our globalized world today. I would like very much to have our scientists defend themselves in Chinese and write scientific articles in Chinese and Russian. And to this day you're actually limiting the constitutional rights of citizens who understand language, know language, you're forbidding them to use it even in scientific work. Is it not clear that Russian is a language that is understood today by 100 percent of the people's deputies in the Hall, and that today's situation of relations between Ukraine and Russia and the war can't be translated into the language that Pushkin wrote, both Dostoyevsky and Gogol?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u232	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head or our scientists will be able to write their scientific papers in Chinese, Japanese, Russian, and Russian as well. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I wonder how many languages: Chinese, Korean, Japanese, other respected languages -- how many dissertations were protected in Ukraine in these languages? To be honest, none of them, since there are no experts in Ukraine who could fully defend the dissertation in these languages, could protect the dissertation of scientific subjects. Apparently, there were dissertations in Chinese, Japanese -- philological. Such dissertations are yes, and the law in this part of no language limits that. By the way, Pushkin's native language, I'll tell you, was French because that's what he was taught to speak. And when it comes to English, this law simply expands, this law simply expands the ability to defend itself in English. He really doesn't regulate the rights of the Nazis, because we don't have the language of the Nazis, but the language of the aggressor state, as you said correctly, we've excluded it from here. First of all, because we're convinced that we're going to win. It can't be an eternal term. And secondly, because Russian is, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u234	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u235	Countries such as Belarus and Kazakhstan Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u236	Thank you for your clarification. We're moving on. And the next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] For confirmation. Excuse me for confirmation. So, at the request of the People's Deputy Papieva, I'm putting amendment 552 on full-scale confirmation, and the committee has taken it into account in part. Please make up your mind. [[12:53:04]] For-13. Your amendment. Your offer is denied, Mr. Papiev. 553 amendment, national deputy of Oksana Bilozer. The amendment was partially taken into account. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u237	Mr. Mikola, you know, I basically support the logic of the entire bill. And I understand why we're doing this, and we're doing it right. The only thing that's partly taken into account is, I thank you for this, which is exactly what I wanted to introduce the language of the indigenous people. Because our law, the bill, is a basic bill. I understand that we're talking about, and you're drafting an alternative bill that will apply exclusively to indigenous peoples and exclusively to national minorities. But I have a question: If we do not prescribe in the body of our law today, let us say, though the language of the indigenous people, what will then be the reference to the auxiliary law that will help us to develop the standards of our law? That's why I actually have a question for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u238	Thank you very much. I ask you to clarify the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u239	Thank you. Well, first of all, another law will refer to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which refers to the protection of the languages of other and indigenous peoples. And secondly, articles in Ukrainian have to be translated from other languages, including indigenous languages. Thus, this translation is, in fact, set up for the dissertation reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u240	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm worried because the next amendment to 554 is Germano, Shufrich. And there's no German and Shufrich in the hall. 554th. We're moving on, aren't we? Okay. Please, the next one is 555. National MP Musai, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u241	Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokolščina, Czervonograd, Kamyanecina. The honourable head of the committee, well, it's very difficult to speak an aggressor's language -- it's just an amendment -- to agree with you. Why are you tying it, the language of the aggressor, specifically to Russian? In fact, the aggressor country can be any country at any time. And leaving the "aggressor country" rule will be mandatory as soon as any other country in the world becomes an aggressor in relation to Ukraine. So when the aggression of the Russian Federation ends, then, well, it's not going to be an aggressor country and then there's no way to ignore Russian. So this is a very weak argument, as in my view. And I'll tell Chinese and Japanese conservationists that there's no problem with the right of protection in Chinese. Please, if you are a great Chinese scientist, take the permission and protect this dissertation you want in China or Japan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u242	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u243	Thank you, colleague. Well, by the way, Chinese science can also be protected in Ukraine because it's Chinese science. And from physics or chemistry, really, as you say, you have to protect yourself in China or in Japan. And I don't remember the Ukrainian language being used to protect the dissertation, in China or in Japan, among other things. There must be some general principles of the existence of every country and the development of science in every country, they finally are. As far as you're concerned, I want to say that, you see, the language of the aggressor is, indeed, now it's Russia. But other hypothetical situations are difficult to come up with. The law cannot regulate hypothetical situations. And it may be that these languages will be defined as official or national in other countries, such as the English language defined in Ireland. So if we write hypothetically, like with Russian, which is official in Belarus and Kazakhstan, we can still get into a legally uncertain situation. That's why we've given it up so far. Although we actually support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u244	Thank you, Your Honor. And we're moving on. Next amendment. Now, now, my dear fellow, you know that we will never limit you to your constitutional and regulatory right to speak on amendment 556. Please, the People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal that our colleague Oksana Biozor has said about what is necessary in this law today, if we are talking about codifying legislation, to predict that if another is not included in the Ukrainian Law on Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. I represent the Bukovina today. That is, today the right of the Romanian population to learn Romanian is also required. Just like those colleagues who say today that the language of the aggressor country should be provided for in the law, do not write laws under any circumstances. The aggressor is here today, he's gone tomorrow. And today no particular language of the individual nation is allowed to be recorded in any forbidden language. This is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u246	Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for amendment 556. Let me remind you that she was part of the committee. Mr. Papiev insists on taking full account. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:59:00]] For-9 Thank you, colleagues. 9 only supported Mr. Papiev's position. Next up is 557th. Please, the People's Deputy of Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u247	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. 557 the same law as 547 law, aimed at ensuring that the status of the Ukrainian language is respected as a state law in science itself. At the same time, the project does not take into account the first reading of this specification and the basic principles of the publication of the protection of the dissertation, in the course of which it asks the question of the right not only members of the specialized scientific council, but also everyone else who understands the foreign language. My editorial says that it is necessary to duplicate, to translate, in fact, the language of the European Union, in which scientific dissertation is protected in our national language. And if we don't accept this today, there's actually going to be a limitation on the rights of the audience that can actually participate in the protection of scientific dissertation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u248	Please comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u249	Well, this amendment was rejected. We are indeed gradually moving, whatever we say, to our integration into European space, where English, the languages of the European Union are important and key. And the right to provide simultaneous translation during the protection of the dissertation in English, in our view, will simply complicate this protection and force it to be spent on scientific and consistent translation. This is not a simple translation, for it is often a scientific translation. This, in principle, can damage science and slow down the whole process, because those who are now in line with current legislation should have publications in international journals, publications in English, as well as their reviewers, and participants in this process of scientific protection, are generally already in the modern world all speak European languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u250	Thank you, Your Honor. Please be determined by this amendment 557. [[13:01:19]] For the 18th. Let's move on, fellows. Brenzowicz correction next – 558. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u251	Thank you. Article 18 is proposed to complement part five of the following content: “The application of regional or minority languages in science is established by the law (laws) of Ukraine governing the rights of national or linguistic minorities and indigenous peoples of Ukraine.” The committee's proposed editorial means that languages are effectively excluded from the science sphere, which is essentially a violation of the constitutional principle of the free use of minority languages and relevant international legal acts. With a view to avoiding this proposal, we leave this problem to the future National Minorities Act in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u252	Thank you for explaining your correction. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u253	Dear colleague, we have therefore included in this law the need for the adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Languages of National Minorities, which will provide for this issue to be regulated by that law. And to refer to a law in law that does not yet exist will also be legally wrong. But in that law we will certainly have to foresee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u254	Please identify yourself after the amendment of colleague Brenzowicz. That's, let me remind you, my friends, 558 amendments. Please. [[13:02:51]] For-13. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 559th. Please, Papiev. This is Mrs. Hopko's amendment. Papieuve requires a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u255	Thank you, Your Honor. What a colleague of the people's MP Brenzovich says is absolutely right things that somehow, somehow consciously you don't want to hear. You don't want to hear that there are more than 200,000 Ukrainian citizens living on Bukovin who speak Romanian, which are protected in Romanian at the National University of Chernobyl named Yuri Fedeković. You want to ban the use of your native language by these Ukrainian citizens today. And you say, softly speaking, it is not true when you say that you cannot refer to a framework law that regulates languages, regional languages, and languages of national minorities. Don't lie. You are bound by this law to clearly and clearly state that this rule of law applies to those lands that are not governed by another law and, more precisely, by the Law on Regional Languages and Languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u256	Thank you. Please comment, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u257	Thank you. Well, colleague Papiev was talking about a past amendment that had already been voted on. offered to place 559 amendments on full confirmation. Obviously, we're talking about Ukrainian science. In Ukrainian science, dissertation is protected in Ukrainian. Apparently in Cherniv, we care for the Romanian minority. I'll tell you more, we don't only care about the Romanian minority in Chernović but in Kiev and wherever these people live. And that's why, obviously, these people can do scientific research on Romanian language, Romanian literature, and no one is limiting it. If they want to do physics research in any other language, they can do it in their countries. Another will be provided for by the Law on National Minorities and Indigenous Nations. So all of this will certainly be taken into account in this law and I hope for the same fruitful work you have done under this law, perhaps also for co-authority in this law, because, as I would like to say, my colleague Papiev has made no claim to this law, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u258	Mr. Papiev insists that we put the amendment to the vote in full. I'll remind you that the committee partly counted her. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:05:39]] For the 10th. Next up is 560. Please, National MP Papiev, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u259	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, you will listen to the rapporteur as to what he has agreed. In fact, he is a citizen of Ukraine in the Chernobyl region, who is engaged in scientific activities in Romanian, he wants to push, as he said, into other states. You're out of your mind, aren't you? How so? You Ukrainian citizens who are currently entitled to conduct scientific activities in Romanian, do you want to limit this right to engage in this activity? You can't do that. You are deliberately violating the Constitution of Ukraine and we will certainly submit and submit to the Constitutional Court that this law absolutely violates the constitutional rights of citizens, the right of people to speak in a regional language, the language of national minorities. Do not disrespect Ukrainian citizens whose native language is different. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u260	Thank you. Please comment to the honourable chairman of the committee. At the same time, colleagues, I think we all appreciate a proper discussion of the bill without such. I address it to all of them now: both those in the rostrum and those in the session hall. Please, head of the committee, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u261	Dear colleague, I see you and I see your face, perhaps your favorite Putin politician, because in one word you speak. He said yesterday, "You're out of your mind in Ukraine." I'm sorry that part is Russian, that's a quote. And you're here today repeating this quote, you're bidding in the Ukrainian Parliament, you're humiliating Ukrainian citizens of Romanian origin. Aren't you ashamed? You yourself are a man of the Black people, you are lying, you are misleading Ukrainian citizens, because under this law publications can be made in any language, including Romanian. Research can be done in any language, including Romanian. Science can be done in any language. Science can be done in any language. Yes, the dissertations should be Ukrainian and English, of course, that's perfectly normal, if this isn't about the dissertations that apply to the culture or language of indigenous peoples and national minorities. And that's what happens in every country. And be careful with the quotes from your favorite Russian politician, perhaps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u262	Thank you, colleagues. I think this room is united as to what Putin is worth studying in Ukrainian: He will need it in The Hague. But I'm asking Putin not to quote here, it's nothing to us. We're moving. At the request of the People's Deputy Papiev, I am putting amendment 560 to the full vote. I'm reminding you that the committee considered her in part. Please be sure. [[13:08:54]] For the four of us. Let's move on. 561 repairs. Please, People's Deputy Papiev, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u263	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Leonidovich, it has been revealed to me that you are such a big fan of Vladimir Vladimirovich, look at him, quote him, you know every phrase, every sentence he says. I can't compete with you because that's the least of my interests. I'm interested in something else. The subject of this law is of interest when you violate the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens in this law. That is why we have been elected, and according to the Constitution, the Ukrainian People's Deputy is a representative of the Ukrainian people. I represent those voters, and I stand for the rights of those voters who trusted me to be in the highest legislative body in Ukraine. I'm going to stand up constantly for the right-wing Ukrainians who live in the Montenegrin region, in the Odessa region, and the Hungarians who live in Zakarpatta, and other languages, regional languages and languages of national minorities, these are their constitutional rights. Today, as an elephant in a porcelain bench, you are trampling on the constitutional rights of people. Please put it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u264	I would like to make a determination on this amendment, and I would like to remind you that this is an amendment by the national deputy Eutushka, and the committee has considered it in part. Mr. Papiew insists that the hall support her fully. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:37]] For-9 Next amendment. People's Deputies, please have a word. That's 562 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u265	Victor Yelensky, People's Front. I thank the committee colleagues for taking this amendment into account, but I would like to talk about serious matters. In fact, our bill does not prohibit anyone from conducting scientific activities in any language. But I want to remind you that 92 percent of all scientific production in today's world is in English. English is essentially a ticket to the scientific world. Therefore, dissertations can and should be protected, including in English, because not only citizens of Ukraine are protected in English but also citizens who come from different countries to defend themselves in Ukraine. And that's very important, and that's what the scientific community asked us to do, and it asked us not to do dissertation offshores and offshors for plagiarists, extending the right to defend ourselves against.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u266	Thank you for your clarification. You don't insist on voting. Thank you for your contribution to the bill. Next up is 570 revisions, national. Excuse me. Excuse me. 560, please. What? Please, National Deputy Suslov Irina, I beg your pardon, 569 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to discuss in more detail the position of the people’s deputies regarding the content of article 18, paragraph 4, of the bill. So we see that the opinions of the Ukrainian national deputies regarding the use of foreign languages in the protection of doctoral dissertations are divided. Some propose to allow the protection of the dissertation in English; others, one of the official languages of the European Union. Please comment on this amendment and explain the position of the profiling committee on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u268	Please explain the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u269	Thank you. Among other things, a colleague of Ellen’s, who had just spoken, spoke about it and talked about it, for he, in addition to everything else, is also a member of our committee. And the point is, I quote my colleague Yelensky: "92 percent of the world's dissertations are protected in English, English becomes the language of science." We can't separate ourselves from this process, obviously. Instead, if we allowed all languages to be protected here, we would be visited by those who are not strong enough in their countries to protect a dissertation where we can defend ourselves in another language. But I'm sorry, we haven't completely overcome corruption, for bribes or arrangements, we'd be trying to defend ourselves here in all languages, and then we'd actually turn into such a dissertationary offshore. Obviously, when we discussed this issue with the language of science, we consulted with the Ministry of Education and Science, with the representatives of the scientific councils, with scientists, and very deeply approached it. My colleague's amendment to the list you've been talking about is taken into account editorially. The only difference is that instead of "speaking the EU," we have allowed for the protection of the English language from the points I have just mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u270	Thank you. Let's move on. Mrs. Irina Suslova does not insist on voting. 570 revisions. People's deputy, Germany, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u271	I would like to read a Constitution that should be kept by a reporter instead of bringing to society what he carries here, demeaning our multinational country! "Everyone is guaranteed the right to freedom of thought and expression, to freedom of opinion and belief. Everyone has the right to collect, store, use, disseminate information freely." Science is a search, science is a study. What are you doing, reverend? You ask the scientists! Not at the ideological level, but ask the practitioners, not those who refer to the veneer. Ask me what science is, who worked in it. You've heard your colleagues say, well, how can you ignore the search and write in a language?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u272	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u273	We humiliate, discriminate against all national minorities and Russian-speaking groups. Why are we doing this? And why can we spit on the Constitution -- 22nd and 34th? This is an absolute natural right of citizens! Why are you getting in your brain? You're in your pocket, now you're in your brain! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u274	Please comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u275	Well, first of all, there's no point in this law that forbids the collection or dissemination of information. More to the point, the authors of this law have taken care of and made it mandatory to prepare for a limited period the Law on the Protection of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities. I even know that colleague Podowak started working on such a bill. The people who are most here yelling for the protection of nations, indigenous peoples, and national minorities have not done a word for their real protection: neither has the law passed the law, nor has it done anything else. Because the law is not a declaration. We have to have a separate Language Act, like in every country, separately -- the Minority Protection Act. Report to this, protect minorities in action, as do representatives of the democratic majority, coalitions, democratic factions that are not part of the coalition. And do not speculate about what might ruin the country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u276	I'd like to make a determination for 570 amendments, colleagues. Please. [[13:17:12]] For -6 Thank you. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 571. National MP Musai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u277	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th constituency, Sokoland, Red Town. Thank you for taking this into account in part and completing it in a wider English version, because everyone knows that the sciences themselves quoted throughout the world and on the Internet are done in English, so that's absolutely appropriate. And I want to go to the debate with that judge of the Constitutional Court who is still talking about what someone is carrying, someone has a language. Excuse me, if, in the 27th year of independent Ukraine, the former judge of the Constitutional Court doesn't know the Ukrainian language, it's only one testimony that this law is late, it needs to be adopted immediately. Because such officials, who once held positions, had just squandered the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian state and brought the aggressor here. That's why it's the law. Please listen to my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u278	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u279	Thank you, colleague, Musai. Believe me, I'm not going to argue with you, because I agree with what you're saying. Indeed, this law is too late because we have been using the law all the time, or we have been using the law, which has no real mechanisms of application, although in some paragraphs it was more severe than that, and then we were forced to impose the Law of Koleschenka-Kivalova, which the Constitutional Court repealed. So it's really not what's in time, it's time, first of all, it's gone; second of all, it's going to last; third of all, it's time in the future, we're going to adopt this law for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u280	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, you just presented your position on this amendment. We thank you very much. Next up, 572nd. Please, People's Deputy Papiev, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u281	Thank you. Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, despite what we call for both the rapporteur and the session hall, to respect the Constitution of Ukraine somehow. The rule of law in Ukraine stipulates that those laws under consideration are adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, to comply with the international instruments ratified by Ukraine. And I want to remind the report that Ukraine has ratified the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities, which is the body of our national legislation. Your law violates at least 11 standards of the Constitution of Ukraine and the European Charter. What kind of European integration are you talking about? Be honest. And, honourable colleagues, these standards, they violate the 20th article. 22 The Constitution of Ukraine, Part Three. They narrow down the constitutional rights of citizens. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u282	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u283	Dear colleague, the Charter on Rights as a Minority does require the adoption of a separate Law on the Protection of Minorities, as a minority, and we are already working on it. We hope that your empty words and speculation on the interests of the national minorities in order not to allow the Ukrainian language to be approved by the State will experience a fiasco like all your other anti-Ukrainian initiatives. Instead, I would like to say that the article you put in support offered to allow foreigners to defend Ukraine in English. The Committee believes that the English language can protect dissertations not only by foreigners but also by citizens of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u284	Thank you for your clarification. National MP Papiev asks that the 572 People’s Deputy Screepnik be amended in full. I'd like to point out that the committee considered it partially, editorially. I'm betting on confirmation, in full measure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:36]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. The next is 573 revisions. Please, National MP Papiev, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u285	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, who are looking at the process of discussion in the second reading of the bill. Notice, the Deputy Prime Minister, who, by the way, is also the Minister of Culture, is not in the government's bed. Before that he was present, something was interfering with the legislative work of the Ukrainian national deputies, and just when it came to the amendment of my colleague of the People's Chamber of State Pisarenko, which is about encouraging the use of national language in culture, something that we don't have in the government's bed of culture. It's, well, ignoring its direct functions and ignoring its direct functional responsibilities, and ignoring in general the essence of this bill, which is supposed to improve people's lives rather than make things worse, and which could use the native language in which they communicate both in the family and in the family. I'm asking you to put this amendment of the People's Deputy Pisarenko in full measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u286	Thank you, Sir Michael. I have to say, we have a culture minister named Destroyer Eugene. Mr. Kirilenko, with all due respect and your love, and your love special to Mr. Kirilenko, he's only Vice Prime Minister. Of course, he's the whole Deputy Prime Minister, I'm being tipped off by the front lines. But, at the same time, we will surely convey to the Deputy Prime Minister that you miss him and you find it difficult to consider amendments without him, amendments to the bill. And I'm making the full amendment of 573 People's Deputies Pisarenko. I would like to point out that the committee took her in part. Partly. I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Mikola, I'm sorry, I didn't give you my word. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[13:23:54]] For the 10th. 10 supported this initiative by Mr. Papiev. The next amendment is 574, the German People's Deputy. Mr. Vasile, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, what is proposed? It's called "public language in culture." Well, the philosophers were watching, reading, maybe I don't know much Ukrainian. We say, "Speak in the field of culture." What are we imposing here? And that's why we have to say that in this word "language," we guarantee national minorities, ethnic minorities, to use their mother tongue. It's about culture, or it's going to be like the colonials under the Fifths: if you sing in German, you're going to be judged in the morning. So let's not get to that. That's what this is about. And that's why we're asking to satisfy our suggestions for the correct spelling of the title, "Speak in the field of culture." It's polymaniacism.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u288	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u289	We need to go back to article 11 of the Constitution. You are bound by your law to ensure identity, customary law, religious law, if you will. This is already a spiritual and cultural style. And that's why we're going to call these words in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u290	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u291	Obviously, current legislation in the field of culture regulates the free provision of all languages in the field of culture. And we're all normal people, we're great, we understand. We all understand very well that a colleague allows Russia to have the Russian Language Act, allows Poland to have the Polish Language Act that he quoted here, but wants to ban Ukraine from having the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language. So where we say "Ukrainian language in culture," a colleague writes, "speaking in culture," so that, God forbid, the word "Ukrainen" doesn't sound like it. That's what annoys the critics of this law, the so-called opposition factions, because it's not opposition, it's anti-Ukrainian factions that they want to erase the Ukrainian language from the law at all. Well, that's not gonna happen, my colleague. We're going to pass this law. You see, we're discussing everything democratically with you, and now you're going to have your next amendment. We're going to talk again, but we're going to accept and defend the Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u292	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking for 574 amendments. [[13:27:00]] For the 10th. The correction is being rejected. The next is the same thing, 575th National Deputy German. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u293	Dear colleagues, the proposal for a bill specifically stipulates, quote, "The State ensures the use of the national language in culture." Well, read it. Let our teachers, our teachers, sit down and read and say, conduct an expert study. We're proposing what culture is and what "state provides" is a question. The fact is that the whole bill is loaded – it obliges, obliges, obliges. How can a person who realizes his absolutely natural right be obliged to think differently, talk differently, and so forth? So we say, "The state cares about the development of Ukrainian-speaking forms of cultural life, guarantees the free use of regional languages or minority languages in the sphere of culture, non-interference in the creative activities of cultural actors." And us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u294	Finish 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u295	And we predict at party meetings and concerts the presence of representatives authorized to report to the police and to hold them accountable. This is where you run this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u296	Thank you. You're all such horror stories, sir, Germany. The police will certainly not beat the crap out of anyone. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u297	Thank you. Well, first of all, my colleague Germanko quoted the bill in the first reading, which was changed to the second, and it's given to you. But it is very interesting to quote the offer of a colleague of Germany and a colleague of Shufrich. Listen, "The state cares about the development of Ukrainian forms of cultural life and guarantees the free use of regional languages." Explain what it means to say: "Ukrainological forms of cultural life"? This is how these Ukrainians should be, sorry, not loved to mold and write about our culture! Obviously, the committee could not support such an amendment. Please reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u298	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I ask you to identify yourself as to Ukrainian forms of cultural life. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:29:52]] For-7. Seven deputies supported Ukrainian forms of cultural life. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 576th. National Deputy Brenzovich. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u299	Thank you. My edit is taken into account editorially. I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u300	Let's move on then. 577th. Please, People's Deputies Papiev, we'll pick you up with a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u301	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Nevertheless, the use of the national language in culture should, well, be introduced in a balanced way. The region of Chernobyl. For example, on March 1, Mercishor was a festival. This is a celebration of our Ukrainian citizens who refer to the Romanian - speaking Ukrainians. And you are now planning to enter into their celebration, which is to be treated only with respect and respect, and to start telling them on the day when it's Mercishor, in which language they can speak and conduct this holiday. We have 200,000 Ukrainian citizens in the Montenegrin region who respect other languages of national minorities, regional languages that speak Ukrainian as a national language. I would suggest that the reporter do what we did in our time, write a dictator.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u302	Thank you, Your Honor. I think in this room everyone's a dictator, let's write. Immediately after the vote, we'll write a dictator. We can speak both Russian and Ukrainian. I fear that the defence language will make more mistakes than those who advocate Ukrainian. Please comment, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u303	Thank you. I know the dictator is always, and with very good odds, writing the honourable Vice Speaker, we all know that. I suggest you and I go to the next Dictant, with our associate vice-speaker, and we write it together, and see who writes better. We can. No, no, let's go with you. Let's go with you. Because then someone won't come, and you'll say, "Well, you see, there wasn't a colleague of Brechenka, because he was in Santa Claus, so I'm not coming." Well, that's not fair! Let's go together! I'll be waiting for you! Now, let's talk about this adjustment. Dear colleague, this is my job. It's this right here that says that part of the word, "The Ukrainian Act on National Minorities." It should be amended by the words "special law regulating the implementation of the rights of national minorities." This is this new law that we have to write down to take into account the rights of those Romanian citizens of Ukraine. If you cared so much about them as you say in this room, if you cared so much about them as about Ukrainians and all the other Ukrainian citizens, I think they would vote differently for you as they vote now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u304	I'd like to make a determination for 577 amendments. It was taken into account by the committee in part. Our national MP, Michael Papiev, asks to be taken fully into account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:33:20]] For-16 Let's move on. 578th. Please, Musa's National Deputy, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u305	The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th District. One of the fundamentals of my rights, and especially not as much of an edit as the one you left in the second reading in the editor, this column is the last one. Please note that if you, in the second sentence of "use other languages" and "design," replace the word "other languages" with Russian. What will you leave behind? Let's do it. So what's going on? That you're allowing this law for the creative purpose of not knowing who, the kind of artists we hear here in the hall, they're going to have a million creative designs tomorrow, and then the Russian language will be left behind at all cultural events. That's the string I've been talking about. Please, please, so that the Ukrainian patriots can vote with a clear conscience in favour of this law, remove this opportunity for the creative design of Russian to do anything. And tomorrow, there's gonna be carrots, carrots and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u306	Thank you for your clarification. Let's move on. And the next amendment is 580. People's deputy Timish. You have the floor, my dear fellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u307	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come to my task. It is a pleasure to have a lively discussion. Do you know what I felt in this room? That there are a lot of activists who are hiding in Romanian but who are actually protecting completely different goals. I can see so much that I would like these people to write a dictator in Romanian because I understand that they were somewhere the heads of the district administration in those countries. For the respect of the people they so quote, they are so fiercely protected. But I'm going to protect this people because I represent this unity, I represent this country. I'm not going to bet the editing on confirmation. But I ask you very much, Princess, would you please explain to me that you are sending for European legislation? So this rule that is passed is not in parallel with the National Minorities Language Act, the Ukrainian Language Protection Act, well, I support it. But please explain why. And what countries do you send and take, experience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u308	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u309	Thank you. Well, first of all, we have the National Minority Protection Act. It's just a framework, a general one. We say that there are laws on national language in each country. They took the lead everywhere. Because the State Language Act is in fact the basis of the statehood of the country on which the statehood of the country is based. At the same time, I share your concern that very many people, including Ukraine's enemies, will speculate on the rights of national minorities, both inside and outside Ukraine. And we have to do everything. That's why we wrote the six-month term here. And we don't want to drag it away. We have to do everything with you, along with the MPs who represent other national minorities and indigenous peoples who are in this room, who care about and care for the rights of these national minorities, to do everything they can to prevent any pressure on national minorities. You know, one of the Poles famous for Stanislaw Vincenzo used to say, "Honor your own people." Yes, we love our native Ukrainian language, but this means that we should treat it with little respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u310	Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u311	to the Romanian, Hungarian, Crimean Tatar and all other languages of the national minorities who live in Ukraine. We'll do it in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u312	Thank you, Your Honor. The next amendment is 581. People's deputy, Oksana Bilozer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u313	Thank you. Although it's an editorial bill, but I would like to raise the subject right now, and remind all of us that our bill, which we are now considering and becoming the law, is undoubtedly the key to creating the only cultural and information space in our country, where the national language, the Ukrainian language, as the constitutional norm is being developed by this bill. My amendment applied, but now there's a whole series of amendments to mine that are edited, but it's related to a simultaneous translation. Because the key position is for every citizen in Ukraine to understand what's going on. If he's going to some cultural event that's going on there, like in Zakartat or in Bukovin, he can't understand the language of either Romanian or Hungarian, for example, for example, for example, for example, or Polish, but he has a right to understand what it's about, because it's happening in his native territory. That's why, actually, my right, it sounds like, "between villages, villages, cities, which, according to the law of Ukraine, are places."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u314	Finish up, please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u315	Thank you. "Besides villages, villages, cities which, in accordance with Ukrainian law, are places of residence of indigenous peoples or national minorities in Ukraine, to accompany (or comment) mass cultural activities may also use appropriate indigenous languages with a simultaneous translation of the Ukrainian language." It seems to me that this simultaneous translation, if we introduce it and it will be in the body of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Oksano. I ask you to move on because you have explained the point of your amendment. 582nd. People's deputy Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u317	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens! It is very interesting to hear some of the fellow Ukrainian national deputies who say that they represent national minorities are of interest. But when you look at their vote, they actually vote like mancures, which is absolutely contrary. And this is true of religious issues when a person betrays that canonic church, where most of the population goes to many other things. That's why we advocate the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to speak the language they want to go to the church where they want to. And to respect the constitutional rights of citizens today, this is the Constitution of Ukraine, which protects Ukrainian citizens. And we will necessarily repeal this law through the Constitutional Court, because this law is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u318	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u319	Thank you. Dear colleague, I want to tell you that when, at the request of the MEPs and at their request, we organized a meeting with representatives of national minorities, colleague Timish, colleague Branzovich, other national deputies who really care about matters of national minorities, were there. We discussed, not all agreed, but we were in dialogue. And there were usually no colleagues here who speculated on the topic of national minorities. And I want to tell you, my colleague Papiev, there are several canonic churches in our country, there is freedom of religion and there is democracy. And it is time for us to impose a canonic church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u320	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is the 583rd Amendment, Konstankevich. It was partially accounted for. And the People’s Deputy Papiew insists on taking full account. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:32]] For-9 The correction, the offer is more faithful, Mr. Papiev, does not count. Next up is 584th, Germany. Your amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u321	Dear colleagues, we are simply proposing that all acquisitions, all acquisitions in the culture or direction system, spirituality should be brought to all people, including people of national minorities, whose millions are their own tongue. And now that some people here are turning this into an event, I want to say, first of all, the judge of the Constitutional Court -- the word "ex" is not that it's not literate, it's just not basic. And secondly, there's this, you know, in Ukraine, if you don't know what to say on the market to a woman who sells pies or what, she gives duli. So the approach to the image, to the other, let's say you don't do that rhetoric. If you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u322	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u323	We can do that, too. And the second. There's a family here, as it were, that's where the irony is used. It's normal, Mr. Reporter, it's normal, you can apply irony and everything else. But let's essentially, if this is a discussion, I have the right to answer if you're pointing out my family. Is that clear to you? I'd like you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u324	I give my word to the head of the committee. And I want to remind you that when you talk about the right hand side, you can't do that, because talking to each other isn't the basis for a lineup. If there is an offense, then there may be a reason for the repulsion. Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u325	Yeah, buddy, you're talking to me, I'm talking to you, we're having a discussion. You're going to have your next update, and you can answer that. You and I are political people, but normal people understand each other. As for your amendment, it was evidently rejected, since translation of literature into regional languages and minority languages is not subject to the regulations of the Law on State Language. We once discussed, for example, the Book Institute Act and there, in this law, you could talk about it and write about it, it's just another subject of regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u326	So I'm voting on amendment 584. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:44:31]] For-12. The decision is not made. 585th. For confirmation? Colleagues, three deputies, written by Papiev. Please, Papiev. He's listed the rights he's after.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u327	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, honourable colleagues, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens who are watching closely the course of events in the Supreme Council in the Plenary Hall, as discussed. And I absolutely support what all Ukrainian citizens are saying, that a lot of us now have politicians who speak good words, but when the vote comes, they vote absolutely, absolutely against their own words, in spite of the interests of the citizens who chose them, despite the national minorities who chose them. And this bill, let's see, let's see how it's voted for. I think that enough Ukrainian national MPs will be ashamed before their electorate come and look them in the eye. And I want to borrow my eyes from Syrka to explain something. So please place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u328	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u329	My dear colleague, I think it would be a shame to look at the voters who do not vote for this bill because it is quality enough, it is serious. And in addition to protecting the Ukrainian language, he commits himself to drafting a law for the protection of minority languages, which we have been talking about for a long time. Because you haven't been able to do that when you're in power, and we're going to protect Ukrainian as a national language, and we're going to protect minority rights as well. Because the law of Khivalova Koleschenka did not protect the rights of minorities, it destroyed the Ukrainian. Period. And he had that goal. And to protect the language of national minorities, the culture of national minorities is also our responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u330	So I'm betting on the 585 vote. Please vote. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[13:46:48]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I want to clarify a situation. If there's an adjustment and a few people pick up at the same time. I have the same Pisarenka, written, both in one, and in the other. First of all, the author of this amendment is invited to speak. If the author refuses, then I'll give it to the other national MPs. So the next line is brenzovich, 586th. I give him my word, not Pisarenko's, not Papia's. Please, Branzovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u331	Thank you. My amendment is edited, I don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u332	So who's in charge of taking 586's license completely into account, please vote. Vote. The head knows what he's doing. [[13:47:53]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 587. I'll take a look at the notes. 87's not on the list. And there's no list in that list. My colleagues, I can honestly tell you, this could get mixed up in all the notes I've been given. They've already passed it. 88th, Illenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u333	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. This amendment suggests that part two of article 19 of the bill should be drafted as follows: "The language of cultural and artistic, entertainment and spectacular action is the national language. The position of this part is not extended to the use of languages in performing and playing word works." We think that this is the kind of editorial that will provide maximum guarantees to protect Ukrainian as a national language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u334	Will you comment, Mr. Mikolo? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u335	Dear colleagues, this amendment is intended to exclude an article that allows other languages to be used. The committee agreed with many of the authors of the amendments that disfellowshipping is important, but it must be clearly limited. In particular, exceptions may be established by a special Law on the Rights of Minorities and Indigenous Peoples, which we have already discussed so that, for example, a Romani wedding can be held in Romani language. The committee also decided to use the approach already adopted by the Supreme Council, which is reflected in the Act adopted in 2017, "On Cinematography", there is a definition of the term "national film", which allows the use of other languages in cases where this is justified by the artistic design of the organizer of the event. So in the performance, actors play, well, for example, Germans, they can speak German, if it's creatively necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u336	So I'm voting on amendment 588. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:50:14]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'd like to inform you that I'm continuing this morning's meeting. But in view of the opening of an exhibition in Parliament’s living room at two o’clock, I am able to make an announcement to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u337	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew. Dear colleagues, today is the 115th day that the Russian Federation unlawfully keeps war-torn Ukrainian sailors, 24 of our prisoners of war, three of them wounded, and they still refuse international doctors, none of our sailors are allowed into our Human Rights Commissioner or their family. And in fact, today, the families of sailors came to the Ukrainian Parliament in the same way, and they are taking the initiative to do an exhibition called "Homecoming." This is not just an exhibition, and this is such a charity event, a charity auction: you can buy work from this exhibition to support sailors and their families. The exhibition will take place on the second floor of Parliament. And I sincerely invite all my colleagues during the break to visit this exhibition, to communicate with the families of our wartime sailors. The exhibition opens at two o’clock and will last for a few days in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much and please support the families of our prisoners of war.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u338	Thank you. I'm inviting everyone to the show. 589, Lassiek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u339	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that what you're saying about 588 seems like Mr. Illenko, yes, that's pretty important and smart was the thing. I don't understand what this is all about, formally speaking. Now on the 589th. You write either a serial translation. And this is called the leadership of cultural and artistic, entertainment and spectacular activities in Ukraine. It could be on TV and in a particular room. How do you imagine that we have a time of successive translation during an action like this? Why is that word? That's what I'm talking about. Or separate separately, some singing fields. It's nonsense, you know? Who's going to be on TV with a series, the conference? Then why do you have to do a conference like this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u340	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u341	If we, my colleague, rule out your words "sequential," then the law's obligation is the word "synchronous." Instead, we suggested that we soften it, make it a simultaneous or consistent translation. If we take away the words "sequential translation," it's just the obligation to do a simultaneous translation. And it seems to me that it is not for us to impose the method of translation on the organizers, whether it is a simultaneous or a consistent translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u342	So I'm betting on a vote of 589. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:53:33]] For the 15th. The decision is not made. 590th, Lassiek. Don't insist. 591st, Bilozer. Please, Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u343	Yes, thank you. I want to make a follow-up comment, because we have some more subtitles. So if there's some kind of action going on, it can do some subtitles in the national language, but a consistent translation of the art measures that can take two or three hours, it's just really impossible to do it. Not enough, they'll do it, they'll tell you at this event, "And we can't provide a consistent translation. Then let's do it without a translation, because everyone understands it anyway." You understand perfectly what this can lead to. That's the first question. I would still like us to then, if we technically produce our bill before it's finished, to take this position into account. And the second. Here is the European language community, which we have also proposed by our permission to remove. I would like you to explain to our listeners and viewers today and to the members of the Hall what commitments are in Ukraine regarding the European Language Society and why it is important to implement it today in our law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u344	Thank you. I'll tell you before I give my word to Mr. Mikola. Colleagues, before the law is passed, I'll give the order. I am sure that the committee itself is interested, the committee will gather to consider all the remedies that have been broken, which have been rejected, and will propose to return to a whole series of rights, because the law is very large. And I'm sure that this process should be as public as possible. This document, as a decision of the committee that will be proposed to the Supreme Council, I will propose that it be posted in advance on the site, distributed to the National Deputies, so that, when we vote on the law in the Hall, everyone very firmly and clearly knows which rights we are going back to and what will be the final and final drafting of the law. So I'm sure you'll just be participating actively in this committee. During this discussion, if we find moments that make the law more perfect, I'm sure the committee will support them and count them. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u345	Thank you. Well, first of all, I want to emphasize once again that the authors of this law are very many people's deputies, and that the committee has been working on it in its entirety, and I, in upholding some of the elements of this law, have very often expressed, not my own position, but the position of the committee, as it should do according to the legislation in force. When it comes to translation. Well, if it works out, I don't know, "Scorpions" musician and he says, "Hello, everyone," and they don't translate it in sync, and then someone says, "Hey, guys," it's not going to be a big break. Do you understand? The same is true of the European language community. There's essentially one exception to the Euroworking exercise, because there are certain standards, so we've fixed it here. But then, of course, we'll discuss all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u346	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 591. Whoever's supporting her, please. Okay. I'm taking a vote. 592nd, Germany. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u347	I want to take another look at the direction that goes consistently, well, physically, ethically and practically. Imagine this cultural mission going on, how to do it. We're proposing a further inconsequential translation, we're proposing, let's give the language that the audience understands, that's what we do. And that's all. As far as I'm concerned. I'd like to tell you, Mrs. Irina, I'd like to tell you, twice, that you've done, so I'd like to say, read the rules of the law, and you'll find that you're definitely attracted to police records, to extract documents to get people to be held accountable for not speaking Ukrainian. Do you understand that? And the second. Mrs. Irina, I respect you very much, but I'd like you to bet on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u348	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u349	So that you can understand, you're bickering -- not known, leading, so that we want to, well, let's do it in a way that we can and wits, wits or whatever, but so that it's in ethics and not allow, so to speak, to translate the discussion into a laugh. This is about a very important issue, about the protection of the natural rights of citizens. That's it. Here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u350	Thank you. I'm just saying, let me tell you that "stupid" in Ukrainian will be as funny as a minimum. I'm asking Mrs. Irina, she had a phone call, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u351	Thank you. You know, I think with great respect to all the authors of the amendments in this session hall, I think I am the very national deputy of Ukraine who is most responsible for discussing the amendments and studying them. And I'm convinced that this law will help us to apply, not the penal function of learning Ukrainian, but the incentive. This is his purpose and philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u352	Thank you. Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u353	I would also like to emphasize to everyone present in the audience, the police, the FSB, the aliens, the people of Alpha Centauri under this law have no authority to uphold the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u354	I'm betting on the vote amendment 592, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:59:36]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 593. Musi, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u355	Dear Head, I absolutely share your wise decision and support it, which you have just expressed about what we must gather on the committee and work on, and give the editorial that unites the hall, as you always insist on. I totally support it. Now, let's do this. Mr. Head, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, I've asked you for two corrections before. Please give a second paragraph, under number two of this article, an explanation of "creational design" and "allowable in other languages". Well, isn't it clear to us that there's a hidden Russian language under the "creational design"? We cannot allow any of the creative intentions of the Fifth Column to be implemented here further by the Russianization of Ukraine. Please take this seriously during the process. Or comment on why you left this terrible norm to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u356	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u357	Thank you. Well, you know, we often have shows where some of the replicas sound foreign, some percent of the replica. Whether it's the Germans or whether it's right now we're all talking about Hutsuk Xenu, and there's this beautiful Sharika opera about Hungary, for example. There are Ukrainians and Hungarians. And if the Hungarians say a few words in the exhibition in Hungarian -- as they say, as the Ukrainian author wrote -- I don't see much trouble in that. Because that's what the classic wrote. If John Frank has a quote when he writes "Borislav laughs" or some other piece, and they want to put it on stage -- I don't see any trouble here either. The other thing is that we really have to control it. So that it doesn't become a ruse, as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u358	Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm betting on a vote of 593. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[14:01:44]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. Thank you. 594th. It also has the offer of Papiev and the offer of Pisarenko, but there is the author of Vasjunik in the hall. Then I'll have to give it to them. Please, Vasjunik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u359	The committee editorially took into account the law on what is permitted in the publication of posters for the use of other languages alongside the national language. That's why I don't insist on voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u360	Who's to take full account of Amendment 594, please vote. [[2:02:33]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I've moved on to the 15 minutes of the morning session. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, good, 10 minutes. Five more minutes. Guys, wait a few more minutes. So 595th. Don't insist. He insists. All right, Pisarenko. Let's do that. He gave a letter to Pisarenko and noted the amendment. Attention, fellows, once more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u361	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable colleagues who are the authors of this law, you know, a model is still in place. Nevertheless, I hoped that a model of popularizing Ukrainian national language would be established to unite both the hall and the country. And clearly, when we're talking about government official things, there's got to be a national language. But why do you want to ban everything or limit everything even at the level of non-state exhibits, cultural and artistic actions and so forth? So what we're talking about right now is that we're limiting and we're only running within a certain framework where we're using a limited set of languages. Well, why do it in culture, in science, in education, where people should have more opportunities? So please consider the promotion, not the imposition and limitations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u362	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u363	This is an amendment that is designed for publicity and allows tickets and posters to use languages other than Ukrainian. It's got to be Ukrainian, it's a popularization of Ukrainian. But the law clearly allows other languages to be used. So I think that's going to contribute to the goal that you're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u364	Do you insist on voting? So 595 was included partially. Who's in charge of taking it all into account, please vote. [[14:04:43]] For the five of us. The decision is not made. And, colleagues, there's probably going to be a final amendment by lunch -- 596th, Timish. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u365	Part of it. 596 revisions. In part three after the words, I quote, "In advertisements, posters, other information materials, other languages are allowed to be used to mark the names of creative groups and performers if they duplicate such names in phonetic transcription in Ukrainian." Please add the words "The action of this part does not apply to cultural and entertainment activities of national minorities." Please confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u366	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u367	Thank you. Well, we didn't support it just because it didn't apply, because we decided here about national minorities that we would regulate it by a separate law. And I think that if we do it, we will definitely consult you and think about how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-19-m0.u368	Thank you. I really want to look to our friends, who represent minorities and indigenous peoples. This law is only to regulate the use of Ukrainian national language. The law on the language of national minorities is another legislative act, there is no desire to humiliate anyone and somehow limit rights. It's just this law on the use of Ukrainian, which unfortunately also needs protection in a country called Ukraine. And I'm voting on amendment 596. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[14:06:28]] For the 10th. The decision is not made. My colleagues, I would like to emphasize once again to all right-wing authors that only one person can speak on one side. It can't be 5, 7. Then we'll go endlessly. The first right is given to the author if he is in the room. If the author doesn't speak, of course, anyone can put her on confirmation, only if she's not rejected. Because if it's rejected, you can't put it on confirmation. But then I will have to choose subjectively whether to give either one or the other. In turn, I do, you see. To feel comfortable, I give in turn. So, colleagues, we stopped at 597th. It's a German correction. And I would like to point out to you that at 4:00, we're going to start with your 16-hour shift. So 597th. Let's not forget, the camera is the right one. We call every amendment to make sure there's no reason to question the procedure for considering such an important law. So 597 a is 16 hours. This morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And I remind you, and I invite everyone to participate in the exhibition. At 4 p.m., I invite everyone to the hall. And thank you very much to the head of the committee for a very competent and very professional discussion. At 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall.
