ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u1	Colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, take up jobs, and prepare for registration. Ready? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:39]] 343 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on Saturday and Sunday, Ukraine will honor the two tragic dates of our nation’s history, the two burning wounds left by the Russian Communist colonial regime. Saturday, May 18, is 75 years old from Stalin’s criminal order to deport Crimean Tatars from their land, the Ukrainian Crimea. In fact, it was an order for destruction, a genocide of the entire nation. Only in times of independence. Ukraine’s independent Crimean Tatars were able to return to their homes and return to their homeland. But now Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians are being persecuted again in Crimea. Dear compatriots, I'm sure we'll release Crimea, bring you peace and tranquillity, and you will return home forever. Dear colleagues, I also call on all Ukrainians to mention this Sunday all innocent martyrs, victims of political repression. And to those who oppose decommunization and advocate the resurgence of the Soviet Empire, I recommend that this day we go to the Bykownian Forest near Kiev to see for ourselves a bloody and shot range where thousands of victims of mass crimes against humanity are buried. We will never forget or forgive! Please honor the memory of the victims of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people and the victims of political repression by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] So, colleagues, before we go to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to inform you that we have today the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government. Welcome to our government! [[Applause]] But before we start "the hour of questions to the government," I want to report that two factions from two factions have come to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a break that they are willing to replace by a speech. It's from the faction, the deputy faction of the People's Front and the Radical Party. And I invite the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, new circumstances require the maximum consolidation of state forces in Parliament. The new president, the new agenda, the new coalition. The People's Front faction states that the coalition that was formed in 2014 and operated to date has carried out its tasks. A low number of key decisions were taken by the constitutional majority of the Supreme Council. In five years, this parliament, two governments, and Ukrainian authorities in general have made more changes in Ukraine than in the previous two decades. But it's a story. The foundation of a strong and successful Ukraine is laid. And this is the future. We need to build further. It is necessary to involve all the political powers of the State and of the newly elected President. That's why we're claiming the exit of an active coalition, its cessation on May 17, 2019, and the initiative to form a new coalition with a new agenda. A new coalition will be formed within 30 days according to the Constitution. The People's Front urges the factions of State ideology to begin consultations immediately on the preparation of a new coalition agreement with a new action plan. On the basis of this plan, a new majority is to be united. During the next six months, Ukrainians expect the newly elected President and Parliament to take decisive steps, actions and changes. There's no time for delay. Our proposals for action plan. The government must be accountable to its citizens, so Parliament and the President must amend the Constitution to reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council. Simultaneous withdrawal of immunity from the President, the deputies and the judges. A clear distribution of responsibilities between branches of government. Disposal of local government administrations, completion of the process of decentralization. The adoption of a new law on national will is a law on referendum of all levels. Establishment of an institution of impeachment for the President and responsibility for the people's judges. The adoption of a package of economic laws, including tax amnesty. A fair market for the earth. Competitive privatisation. Availability of cheap long loans. Ensuring Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. Restoration of territorial integrity: the return of Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to Ukrainian conditions We are ready to consider all of the President's initiatives, including his personnel submissions, which have been made in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. We're sure he's new.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u3	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u4	propose new decisive steps for change in the country and demonstrate high standards of cooperation with society, the Supreme Council, the government and the Prime Minister for the success of every Ukrainian family in our country. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, a new coalition is formed in Parliament, Parliament is working for the October 27, 2019 elections, and the Government and Prime Minister of Ukraine are working to elect a new Supreme Council call. I'm passing on a corresponding statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of the People's Front. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u5	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, sad news. In view of the statement made by the head of the political faction of the People's Front on the withdrawal of the faction from the coalition, and in view of this suspension of the coalition's activities, I report that today the Coalition of Deputies of the "European Ukraine" factions in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council has ceased its activities. According to the provisions of part seven of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine for one month from today, a new coalition must be formed from the date of the end of the coalition of MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, I urge all factions and groups to start consultations on the formation of a new coalition. And let's face it, it was a good coalition. Congratulations, colleagues, all with the work together. [[Applause]] And now we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to the address of Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u6	Good afternoon, Reverend Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! When you talk to me, I always try to pay attention to each of you. Today, I would also like to ask your attention because I'm going to say, in my opinion, enough serious things. Not only about the economy and the parliamentary support for the necessary initiatives that enable Ukraine to be more successful. And I'm going to talk about the future and the challenges we face as the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government. Just now, the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, announced the faction's decision to stop the coalition. I think it's a difficult decision. Like the decision that was made five years ago, the creation of a coalition that was in charge of making absolutely necessary but extremely difficult and unpopular decisions. What choice was there in the coalition? Or to make decisions that will ensure the stability of the state, to make decisions that will change the old, broken system, to ensure that our soldiers protect our state, or to give up their responsibility and turn to opposition, and look from the side, and what will happen to Ukraine. The decision was taken in full responsibility. And today I want to thank the coalition that was created and the factions of the Peter Prashenko Block, the People's Front faction. [[Applause]] And separately, I want to thank the leader of the People's Front, Arsenia Yatzenyuk, and I'll explain why. Under the conditions in which the country became a country in 2014, it takes strong will and spirit to assume responsibility in the most difficult times of our independence, more than that, to save the country from the many challenges that have put Ukraine on the verge of ever being a country. He may have paid a high price for this, but he did everything as a public figure to ensure stability and a foundation for further development in Ukraine today. So thank you, Arsenia, for everything. [[Applause]] I also want to thank today both individual factions and groups and non-fractional deputies. You know, as the Prime Minister, it must have been difficult for me to make a number of important decisions for the country, but at the right times, I felt on some issues, perhaps a situational one, but support for both the parliamentary factions and the parliamentary groups and the independent deputies. Someone can talk about it and criticize any decision we make, and there were probably mistakes that we can talk about today. But when it comes to the need to approve the budget, we need to make new decisions that change the governance system of the state in the decentralization part, in the economy, in the infrastructure, in many areas, we have found your understanding. And I want to thank you today for all of you who supported the initiatives, for making new initiatives that brought us together. I realize that today there is a difference of attitude toward the Ukrainian Parliament as a whole toward power. There are those who criticize Parliament today. I think that if people criticize, they do it right, they have the right to evaluate our actions. Along with a lot of good decisions, but there was much we could not do. And I think that's the basic reprimand of a society that's completely just, and we all have to accept it. And today we have to ask the question: What next? What will we continue to do to vindicate people’s trust? And I can say that in the decision-making system in the country, it happens that you are the key -- the Ukrainian Parliament, the 226 people's deputies that change the system. I've talked about this more than once, and today I want to say from this rostrum: we have to change the decision-making system, we have to be fast, mobile and as high as possible. We can't spend years adopting one of these laws, we have, in the end, a change in the decision-making system in Parliament and in the government. But once again, this is based on what needs to be changed law. And I think that the agenda that we have to set for the medium term, for the next 5-6 months, before the elections to the Ukrainian Parliament should be realistic, it should be effective and it should be strong. Strong enough to speed up a number of processes that are taking place in our country. And so it's obvious that the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian government will work until the next parliamentary elections. Let us work with you, together with the newly elected President, the entire Ukrainian Parliament, to define the order of the day that unites us today. For example, if we're talking about the electoral system, I know today both public debates on this subject and culinary discussions on this subject, as you know. But I think our most unproductive, unconstructive quality, Ukrainian politics, is that there's a lot of culture. We need to talk about what the electoral system should be to give new quality to Ukrainian politics in the next Ukrainian Parliament. And in my opinion, it doesn't matter whether anyone stays behind these parties or not. Political life does not begin or end with the Ukrainian Parliament, political life begins when we have an idea and we believe in it and we fight for it. And so maybe it's time for us to unite and finally decide that the election system has to be changed, to have a serious discussion, but to allow competition in the political arena of the country, not to preserve the system. The second question is: MP's integrity. You have a man standing before you, I've had one and a half years of immunity as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, today three years as Prime Minister, I have no immunity, and believe me, life is in no way different. But what is the main thing? What's important is that I think more about how to abide by the law, not break it. And I think that the inviolability of the Ukrainian Parliament and other officials, it eats them up from the inside, it allows them to extend the scope and break the law for which they are to be held accountable. So let's now make a decision and take off the touchiness. I am deeply convinced that this is right, honest, and dignified. The question of decentralization. We're with you. We've approved this Parliament with you, and I'm glad the idea that I came to work with in Ukrainian. In central power, it's implemented, it's decentralization. But if we ask ourselves, have we fully implemented this reform? No, it's not. Is she still at risk? Yes. We need changes to the Constitution and the implementation of other laws that enable us to fundamentally consolidate the right to decentralization. What Is Decentralization? It's people's authority, we're handing over power, they're better at managing areas. And today we have hundreds and thousands of such examples, this is our task with you. We're talking about European integration. It's important to you and me, it's very important for Ukraine, it's important for the Ukrainians, because it's the European standards that will make the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens better. We have the top of the laws passed today to Parliament, approved as a road map of integration into the European Union, harmonisation of our legislation. Are we going to harmonise them for five more years? So maybe we'll create a whole package, we'll define and we'll make a decision about changes to Ukrainian work. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I can afford to say it because I worked in this system. And then we're going to change this system, we're going to come here, and in one week we're going to adopt all the laws. Top-35 economics, because in order for the economy to grow and grow, you need the support of Parliament, and you understand that very much. But on many issues, it was not easy for me to conduct them through Parliament, because the different possibilities of influence did not allow it. So let's do it today. We have five months to pass the laws and give the jettison to the Ukrainian economy. It's possible! Let's do it! We're talking about the Ukrainian Parliament. The head of Parliament, I was still the head of Parliament, we worked with you on a joint reform of the Ukrainian Parliament, which brings the decision-making system into line, improves democracy in the Ukrainian Parliament, guarantees rights and power, and opposition. But, finally, never once did these bills find much support in the Ukrainian Parliament! So what do we want to do today? Going to the old system elections, choosing a new parliament, forming a new coalition -- and working in the old decision-making system? You know what's gonna happen? It's gonna be the same! It's gonna be cheating, it's gonna be disrespectful. And each of you, each of you in power, will always be criticized for its inefficiency. Why can I be criticized today? For the speed of making decisions. I agree with that, but in order for this speed to be reactive, we need the power of the Ukrainian Parliament, the support of the Ukrainian President, and we will do our job as a Ukrainian government. Maybe we'll make mistakes, maybe we'll be more successful in some processes, and in others we won't, but we'll do the holidays that will make Ukraine stronger. I want to emphasize that we now have an opportunity, a window of opportunity. We have to believe that, and this is a chance for us: either we do and implement these opportunities to strengthen Ukraine, or it will once again become a phase of the missed possibilities. We've been through this more than once. And I want to call on the Ukrainian Parliament, each of the people here that has a mandate: let's unite, let's define a common agenda, let's change the decision-making system, let's change the country over these five months. We can do this, we have experience. And we fully understand how to do this, because we need to be involved in making decisions, not just walking on television, slapping our tongues, rubbing dirt on everyone else, and doing everything we can to make the country weak. I want to say one more thing. Thanks to the Ukrainian Parliament, we have adopted a completely fundamental, such an internal, moral, yes, expression, "Glory to Ukraine! - A hero's glory!".. "Glory to Ukraine!" –it's something anyone can think about, and for every Ukrainian citizen, "Glory to Ukraine!" – it's a celebration of your country, your home country. We have no other country in the world, Ukraine is our home, Ukraine is a strong country. But by making effective decisions, "Glory to Ukraine!" will be heard in every corner of the world as the strongest economy, a strong democracy, as a prosperous country. That's the chance we have with you today, and I suggest we use it. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u7	Thank you. Now, I remind you, we have questions from factions and groups. And I ask you to record a question to the government of factions and groups, and then there will be MPs. Please. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Kurilo Vitaly Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! Honorable Head of Government! Today, the head of Parliament has untied our hands, and we have no majority, we have no coalition, but we have a government. And even today we can ask the government not the most satisfying questions. Volodymyr Borisovich! Volodymyr Borisovich, may I help you? Volodymyr Borisovich! People's MP Kurilo, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u9	Colleagues, here comes a question to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u10	I want to draw your attention to Lugansk. The Luhansk region today is stricken between the so-called LNR and Russia and is in a very difficult socio-economic situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u11	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u12	And the election results, they're not random. Volodymyr Borisovich, question number one is the road. Give the order to stealtodore. Why is less money allocated for roads in the Lugansk region, and why has no tender been conducted in the Lugansk region to date, and nothing has begun to be repaired? There is no square mile of normal road in the area. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u13	Omelian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, next week we'll invite you to the Stork House, where we'll take a closer look at the situation in the Luhansk region. At the same time, I would like to point out to you that after the approval of the road fund that was voted in this room, and also the decentralization of Ukraine, each area of Ukraine receives its own separate funding in the exact proportion to the number of kilometers of roads that are at the local level. So all areas are financed in the same way. In the case of the construction of roads, Lugansk is not exactly at the end of the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Sazek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u17	Good afternoon. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich, 59 constituency, opposition block faction. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, payments were made this week to miners, but these were the last money planned in the budget. Please tell me, what steps are you planning to take to ensure that the salary is paid by the end of the year? And what will happen next to the coal industry? As far as we're concerned, there are no fundamental decisions. And the miners are back on the verge of hunger riots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u18	Thank you for asking. As far as the coal sector is concerned. In fact, there are many systemic problems. There are very limited opportunities for the state, including financial ones, to restructure, reorganize the whole sector. So we make decisions that support the sector through State support. In fact, on a large scale, the main task is to keep the Ukrainian mines working without subsidies, and we need investment to do that. We need financial resources for investments. And there's a whole circle closed about the sources of these resources. What will be done in the coming week? We will address the Ukrainian Parliament with a draft law on changes to the State budget and the reallocation of resources towards payments to Ukrainian miners. We'll ask you to support this immediately. I know these decisions have never been controversial for the Ukrainian Parliament, and I will thank you for your support. This will open up opportunities for further financial support for Ukrainian miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u19	Thank you. The Kugel of Alexander Volodymyr is from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u20	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Vladimir Borisovich, you know, was so annoying after you did that. I realize that I would like to emphasize the need for unity, quality work. But I'm telling you frankly, you know, I've supported and supported many ministers in many cases, but I want to say, more inequitable laws than these in five years, and the government of the previous, and yours, unfortunately, I haven't seen. Sadly, none of the ministers worked with the committees. Our Industrial Policy Committee has never been able to reach Cuba, anyone who works in industrial politics. Mr. Prime Minister, not only do we need to change, I support you, making decisions in Parliament, but we need to prepare, work with the branches. How can you do that? Yesterday, they made decisions, they looked at the destruction of the space industry, and there was no vice-premier, there was no head of the space agency, who didn't care what Parliament could take. We have no right to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u21	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u22	No branches. Mr. Prime Minister, pay attention. Take a step, you don't need a parliament, you make a decision, you give out all the wagons that go to the solstice through ProZorro -- and there'll be no corruption, there'll be a transparent system, and there'll be no parliament here. And show us an example of a transparent work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u23	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyrical, for your question. When I talk about how we can make decisions with you, it means that we need to unite around making these decisions. And I think that the main beneficiary of these decisions should be the Ukrainians. What I'm stressing is that I know the work of Parliament and the inside and the outside, as you like, and I understand all the processes that are going on, and sometimes when you come out with a nice initiative and you need to do it, this is where the real underground political game starts, about. That you can't handle. Yes, the majority is not enough to deal with it. So I say that we can unite and make these decisions. In terms of industrial policy and economics in general. Economics is number one priority. Whatever we say from this rostrum or from the rostrum of the Ukrainian government, a strong economy will provide us with a new quality of life. We have two key tasks: this is the quality of people's lives and the second question is the safety of people. But this is all possible when the economy is developing steadily and steadily. Now, we've been able to achieve this in the last period -- just look closely -- inflation is going down, you know, absolutely. If someone denies it from economists, he either doesn't understand it or he's lying. That's the first one. Thank you for agreeing to this. Second position. We've reduced the debt, the government debt, which was equal to 80 to 14 years, more, the percentage of GDP, to 59 percent of GDP, which means that Ukraine comes out of countries at risk, of countries at risk for government debt. The national currency is stable. Speeding up the decision-making that stimulates economic development will give us an opportunity, market economic development, to grow faster. We need to increase not by 3 percent, but by 5 percent, we need investment. And there are a number of other tasks that I haven't even mentioned from this rostrum, but including the task of reforming the judicial system that inhibits economic development, and that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u24	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u25	You also need to put confidence in the judicial system, which sometimes makes decisions and stops economic development, and that is absolutely true. And I think it's obvious. I created, the government created the National Industrial Committee, it's working on a series of programs to support the industrial complex. But I'm sure that I agree with you that we need to improve the mechanisms for stimulating and supporting the Ukrainian industry. We do. 100 percent. We made a deal with the Employers' Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u26	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u27	We agreed that in the next few weeks we would hold a meeting with Natzkom and make the necessary decisions to revive our industrial policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u28	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Deputy Ostrikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u29	Aunt Ostrikova, Self-help. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, was your good speech, your new order of the day, but it was not the Prime Minister's speech, but the beginning of the election campaign of the new political power. Meanwhile, the government has to work independently of intrigue and political change. Yesterday, there were entrepreneurs under the walls of Parliament, for whom, within four years, the idea of a tax on the resulting capital became a national idea. It's an increase in investment and it's an increase in the economy. Is this today in the top-30 priorities of the government that you're talking about? Are there top-30 priorities for a government to create a strong customs administration today? Who's in charge of customs in Minfin and the DFS today? Because it's made up of the impression that everything: both the footage, and the premises, and the IT, and the server equipment, goes to the tax office, not the customs office. And in the meantime, at the customs office of the hole. And I'm asking you to answer the question: where are the shadow offices that are sitting today from smuggling if they're not in the budget? We're going to direct the Ukrainian people to these shadow offices where these currents are sitting today. And I'm asking you not to contact me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u31	And I'm asking you not to refer now to the fact that the competition is blocked by individual people's deputies. Because you have my firm support for unlocking the competition and securing customs all necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u32	Thank you for your firm support. That's the first thing I wanted to say. Look, I'd like us to, in principle, distinguish the essence from maybe other things. From this rostrum was a speech by Prime Minister Groysman of Ukraine. And I said in my speech, "Five months before the next election, we can make a series of strong, unconventional, correct, effective, swift decisions that will make our economy stronger." And that's what I said and I call it. I don't have the right to vote, you have the right to vote. So, 226 is a magic figure that, without dividing into different factions, can be able to change the system in the country. And second, about the start of a political campaign. You'll find out more. And me, if so. When the decision is made, I'll talk about it very quickly. Next. As for PNVK, I was talking about it. And you know that there is an international obligation that the tax law on the capital outsourced must be fully aligned, its editors, with our international partners. This is Ukraine’s obligation, and we must do so. We will be trusted only if we fulfill our obligations as a nation. And this is very important. As far as customs is concerned. I want to tell you this: that no shadow bracelet enters the Prime Minister's office. And I think you know that. And I'm deeply convinced of that, because I know that clearly. And I stress that our reform and change in tax and customs systems is precisely about making it open, digital. And that's what I was talking about at the last government meeting. And I stress that it is very important for us to unlock the process of rebooting, creating a new tax, customs system that will enable us to build quality digital services for all exporters by importing goods. And we can do it very quickly. The only one, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u33	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u34	In fact, one of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I think it's not without reconciliation with those whose offices are leaking shadow bracelets, as you said, accepted, sued and formally suspended today. But we're going to look for legal solutions to unlock this. I am publicly addressing the Ukrainian courts today. I very much ask you to look at publicly, to consider, as far as possible, in accordance with Ukrainian law, all those lawsuits that differ.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u35	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u36	To consider all the lawsuits that multifaceted plots in various areas are made using courts to undermine trust in the courts to achieve their mercantile, bribed, dirty monetary interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u37	He's the People's Front faction, Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u38	Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, I have a question for you. But first thing I want to say. Today's the law I am. Which, you say, when you change your budget, I've registered, unfortunately, a number I can't say yet because it's not published. But join us, analyze the numbers that are there. And we're going to search together for a source of funding and change. But the second question is that miners themselves have the cost of producing coal. One question is, why doesn't Centrenerego, Centrenerego, who's under the Holding Fund, buy coal from state coal companies? Please put an order in there from Centrenerego, with the Maintenance Fund, and then everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Mikhail, for your question. I've just been instructed by the Minister of Finance to work with you, with your law. We have no objection here. The only question is, we need to find the right source, the source from which we're going to take this money and pass it on to the miners. We are ready to join this law and make effective decisions. So please work with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Energy. As far as the holding fund is concerned. Today, it will be the responsibility of the Holding and Mineconomy Foundation to consider the issue that you have pointed out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u40	From the Rebirth Party, Shipko Andry Fedorovich. Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u41	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, I have a question for the minister of justice, Paul Petrenko. Dear Minister, as early as 2016, I had passed and initiated a law that dealt with the issue of a dead inheritance. This enabled local communities to transfer land that had been used in the shadows for years, thus allowing local budgets to be filled. But until now, the question at the level of "subvention" has never been settled. The point is that there is still no right of local self - government authorities to receive information from the Ministry of Succession and a certificate of the right to an inheritance. As a result, denials that are not justified by the Minsk authorities of local self - government in obtaining this information are very common. So please take this matter under personal control, settle it and ensure that the necessary changes are made to the Succession Register. I've already sent a proper request for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u42	Please, Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u43	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the issue of ownership of Ukrainians is very important. And I want to remind you that when you've taken those changes in your initiative to address the issues of a dead inheritance, we've also given local self-governance to local authorities, in fact in the territorial communities, to teach and connect our experts to the Heritage Register to perform functions and notaries, in fact, of rural notaries. Unfortunately, this initiative, which was adopted in the 16th year, did not receive the support of our heads of local self-government, in fact 16 village notaries were initiated by local self-government authorities. We do a lot of work with our community representatives, and we encourage them to give their experts who will have access to this register. I offer you to unite all efforts. And we need to work with our local self - government authorities in order to give more activity to professionals who will learn and gain access to this register. There are no other problems. And I'm really going to look at this question and give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u44	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u45	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team is ready to participate in the debate on the formation of a new coalition in Parliament. We feel that no day should be lost and no elections taken. Parliament will still go to the elections. We must not lose a day in order not to make the decisions that the Ukrainians are waiting for. The era of theft ended on April 21, when Dusty lost. We need different decisions right now. We are ready to discuss the issue of participation in the coalition, taking into account our proposals: a radical change in economic policy, such as changes to the Constitution, so that the land belongs to Ukrainian peasants; no sale of land; a radical change in policy, such as the budget review; the clearing of corruption schemes; a rise in wages and pensions; fair prices for gas; and a review of the International Monetary Agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u46	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u47	the trade part of the Association Agreement. As a result of limited quotas, Ukrainian producers lose at least $8 billion a year. We believe that Parliament must now use a unique window of opportunity to make the decisions for which the Ukrainians have elected all the deputies here and then go to the elections. Nothing to hold onto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u48	And a final question from groups and factions. It's from the Shahov People's Will Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u49	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I have invited the whole of Kabul to the Luhansk region on several occasions, we are salty. But there is nowhere to invite today. Vitaly Kurilo rightly said that today the Luhansk region -- all roads turned into a cancer tumor. So I invite all of Kabmin to come, see what's happening in the Luhansk region with roads, do analysis, audit, where billions of dollars have gone, and five governors who have changed, who will be responsible for it. Secondly, I've been paying attention to the district city of Severodonetsk, where there's a bloody gang of MPs who are "crushed" by Grigorov's attorney, Judge Kurdzukov, and also the deputy general of Radak Police, who is completely in charge of the theft of 700 million dollars in five years. Note this and answer the population. And the third. Where the national MP went.?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u50	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u51	I'm calling the police chief. Please do not send a search party, for five years there was no national deputy from Severodonetsk, he did not appear in the district or in the Supreme Council, so he must be sent away, made extinct, in general from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. I want to say the first thing about the roads. About the roads. First. I'll give the commission, by Wednesday we'll have an assignment, and if necessary, it'll be a government commission on Wednesday, to send the State Audit Service to check out the entire Luhansk region road economy. That's the first one. The other one. What I can tell you when you say that a series of roads are broken. Any road we start repairing hasn't been repaired in 20, 30, 40 years. Sometimes I get the impression, colleagues, that we've come with you to repair and rebuild the roads -- and we've opened a completely new page of history in our country. Because I feel like the last time we made roads in Ukraine is systematically to the 80th Olympics. Here we have life on the road to the 1980 Olympics and since 2017, which we have begun to repair. At times, as there is, roads were built in separate regions. We started to solve this problem systematically. Well, all of you, if this system has been destroyed for 20 to 30 years, the roads haven't been repaired, they haven't looked at it, then, really, there's no roads there after that time of nomadicity -- there's no roads there's no roads. So we need to restore all of this. But you will agree that a number of roads in the country are being built today, on the highways and on the towns. These are all the mechanisms we've created. Time, time, and only time will allow us to break this trend. So more repaired roads and fewer roads that are broken down. We need time. And how do we make new roads, we'll build, we'll build roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u53	Thank you. So now it's 20 minutes of questions from the national MPs. I'm asking you to record a question from the people's deputies. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u54	It's a stick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u55	It's a stick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u56	Kisses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u57	Please, Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Borisovich! I have a question on the road. First of all, we are grateful that we have completed the construction of the Odessa-Rani road. But I'm focusing on the question of the Sarata-Arciz road, Arciz-Torutine. Already 30 percent of this road has been made, and I have already spoken five times from this place and from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. I very much ask that the remaining funds from the Odessa-Rani road consider and decide on the construction of the road to Tarutin and to the Serpneva Point with the Republic of Moldova, the checkpoint. And I hope you'll give the task of stealing the Todor to compete for the construction and repair of the road of Bolgrad, the New Trojans. I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u59	Anton Ivanovich, thank you for your question. We and this road have taken into account, I don’t remember, there are several tens of millions this year heading for this road. But just like we promised, even before the last question, Odessa-Rani was a completely broken road, made a commitment, and we completely fixed it, today it's in a beautiful state. This is how we will repair all Ukrainian roads. I'll point it out again. We need an hour. I know your energy and that you need more, and today, now and in every direction, I absolutely agree with you that you do. But all that we can do will support, including the roads of the Odessa region. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u60	Please, the next question. People's MP Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u61	Thank you. Please pass the word to my colleague Valery Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u62	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, you've been to Kharkiv recently, and I understand you've been associating with experts who today actually make up the so-called Ukrainian aviation cluster. They expect your support, and you promised that the Cabinet of Ministers would perform all the tasks that could restore the full construction of aviation technology in the country. I would very much like for the time that the Cabinet of Ministers will still be working in the parliamentary elections, the formation of a new Cabinet of Ministers, so that you can pay attention, because the aviation sector could become one of the drivers of the growth of our economy. And we're still one of the ten countries in the world that can still fly planes. Please take control of yourself and, look, nothing is yet being done from your assignments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u64	Thank you so much for your question. In fact, Kharkushkin is a fairly serious, powerful industrial region, and including everything about airplane construction, we have formed order of decisions that should be adopted in support. This included decisions by the Ukrainian Parliament, changes to laws. It must be said and duly said that these decisions were adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament, and the government has made a number of decisions to support this approach. If you have information that some processes need to be speeded up, please put them in my name, I will assign them to consider them, and all that depends on the Ukrainian government, I can assure you that we will support aircraft builders, including industry, including the Harkushchen industry. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, the next question. Mrs. Konstanovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u66	Irina Konstankevich, 23rd constituency, Volin. I'd like to speak to Mrs. Minister of Education and Science, Lilia Greenevich. Dear Lilia Mikhailovna, I wanted to ask you first when an educational ombudsman will be appointed? The second question is, how does the question of the treatment and approval of the teacher's tariff network move? Because it is known that wages for all educators are very low and their growth depends on the tariff grid. And the third question. Please tell me, can we resolve a positive question about the appointment of the students of Kivertz College of Medicine, the four boys who saved an elderly man's life on a train last week? We went to the Ministry of Health, but unfortunately in this ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u67	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u68	There are no marks and encouragements for talented, capable students. I know what much is done in the Ministry of Education and Science, can we and this issue be resolved in the Ministry of Education and Science? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u69	Mrs. Greenevich, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. First of all, an educational ombudsman. We've decided to select an educational ombudsman at a competition, and it's already announced by the Ministry of Education and Science that there's a competition not to do, monopolistically assigning a person to choose a better one, because, indeed, the position of the educational ombudsman is very important to us. It's about the teachers' salary. I want to report that we are now thinking and working on a new solution to how to raise the salaries of teachers. But when this decision matures, then we will represent it in Parliament, for as long as we have the proper work to do. And finally, I would appreciate it if you would give a presentation from the National MP on the subject and a description of this situation, with the participation of four students, and accordingly we will consider this submission, and we will find a way to celebrate and encourage these young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u71	Thank you, Madam Minister. Please, the next question. People's MP, Halasyuk Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u72	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, our team insists on reviewing the trade part of the deal with the European Union. Because those quotas that are set today are totally scarce, they run out in months, and some in tens of days. Ukrainian producers, especially the agricultural sector, are losing billions of dollars, and that's the loss of every Ukrainian because the budget is failing because the money is weakening. Moreover, today the United States and China are waging the biggest trade war ever fought against each other. In the world's economy, tectonic changes are taking place, Ukraine can win a substantial amount of the world's economic pie in case it is not an observer, and it will introduce an active industrial policy: industrial parks, "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians", free networking. That's what our Radical Party team is offering. What you're going to do to make it work and make the Ukrainians earn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u73	Victor Valeriovich, thank you for your question. As for some of the legislative initiatives that you mentioned, particularly industrial parks. You know they support government and are included in top-35 economic laws, and we support that. What's more, the question of joining the energy networks of the business I think should be considered very quickly, almost immediately, because building a small enterprise: a cafe, a restaurant, a factory, anything, a store, is impossible because monopolies who own networks create artificial restrictions on such connections. So what the government could do, we did, but it's not effective, we need the law. Again, what I said in my speech. That's why we fully support it. See what happens when you look at the conditions. You have to be clear that the agreement, it has two sides: the side of Ukraine and the European Union. Today, our exports, reoriented from Soviet, well, post - Soviet markets, are refocused on European and world markets. To that end, we are implementing free trade mechanisms with countries: Israel, Canada, we are now working with Turkey. The European Union. 43 percent of Ukrainian production today is present in the markets of the European Union. So this means the only thing that's going to happen is that you look at duty-free import, quota or quota increases, and we're constantly fighting for it, and I want you to know that. And on Monday, I'm going to meet with the European Commissioner for Trade, and we're going to talk about it. We're constantly fighting for it, and the view, it has two sides. That is, one commitment and another country. So given that this is for us, one of our biggest trading partners, we need to be very careful. And now it's about the view itself. I invite you personally to a group of negotiators to negotiate in advance that you see more effective, then you'll understand from the inside out. A complex of this question, because there are a lot of nuances, mutually exclusive things and binding things. I realize it's not your job and function directly, but if you have that desire, I'd be happy to offer it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Sverke Grigory Aronovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u76	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Vladimir Borisovich, I have such a small question. We always say that your government really does pay attention to farming. And every time I do, I say that this is really a return for the reconstruction of animal farms, for the construction, it's being done. Unfortunately, in 2018 some small farms did not receive a penny. I'm asking you to pay attention to this. We didn't get a lot of government problems out there and stuff. And the second question. And the second question is: The Chernobyl region, human resources are buried in the ground, under the obligation of gasification, 50 million human, nonstate funds. There's only 5 or 6 kilometers left to attach an oil pipeline that's only 5 kilometers away. Well, look at that! I know you can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u77	Thank you very much. There are two sources of gas: through socio-economic development mechanisms or the State Regional Development Fund. So work with the area or as a national MP, and if there's any suggestions, we'll support that. With regard to the support program. Indeed, the support program has already been in operation for the second year following the construction of new farms, processing enterprises, farm support, and so forth, including increased headquartering, that is, subsidies for both private farms and legal persons. This program continues this year. I'll be right there. For the first time in my life, I have information that someone didn't get anything. I will now assign the acting minister of agrarian politics to study with the Ministry of Finance. If you have detailed information that you have not received, I ask you to provide it so that we do not look all over the country for one case, and then we will react quickly. Thank you so much for your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u79	Vladimir Borisovich, very good sleep was yours from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. And what I'm saying is, you're proposing to change the rules of the political game over the last six months. I don't see why this wasn't done in the 4.5 years that were in the coalition before. But if you want, start now, for example, from the gaming business that flooded the streets of Ukraine. Because it's the writing and interpretation of your Minfin that can't be closed, because they say, while there are no other licenses, let these work. And that's why the police can't shut down these facilities, so. That's what the police are referring to, start with that. And the main question. You're proposing new rules of the political game -- I support it. So I see that now all the ministers of the People's Front who stepped out of the coalition will resign. I understand this is going to happen? Thank you. Because political culture begins with itself. Give an example, and we will believe that all of this is truly an honest desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u80	Thank you for your megacreative. It's about the game business. First. No letter, no letter. First of all, this letter. First of all, I don't know anything about this letter. This is the first one. Secondly, no letter (well, I'm talking about this as a person with legal education), no letter can be higher than Ukrainian legislation, law or other legal acts, so to refer to it as a minimum, it would be absolutely legal illiteracy. Illiteracy on the part of those who refer to it. This is the first position. So please give it to me. I'll be in charge of the Minister of Finance. I asked the Minister of Finance. She looked at it like that -- it's for her too, I think, the news. It's about changing the rules. Look, I think we've tried to change the rules, but you're not in Parliament for one day either, and you know that there are initiatives that want to take them, but when I don't come in at that door, at that and that, I can't get 226 votes to make decisions. And that, of course, requires consolidation. Today, there is a unique possibility, a unique possibility to reboot the system for a new political period. Why is this important? But only because I don't care what Ukraine will be like for the next five years. I'm sure you don't care what Ukraine's gonna be. So let's do this. Under different circumstances, such a window of opportunity opened up, opened up, and we can use it today. As far as reformatting the government's work is concerned. Once a new coalition is created, then the new coalition will be able to offer other options. And today, the government of Ukraine is fulfilling its responsibilities in its entirety, and I believe that this is absolutely logical, especially in five months before the next election. If this was about the coalition there a few years before the election changing the format there three, four years before the election, two years before the election, even in a year, one and a half years before the election, then I think what you said is true.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u82	What you said would be practically appropriate. You see, in the event of a minister’s application or failure, he continues to carry out his duties. That's why it's pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u83	Thank you. Sporish conveys the word to Horcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u84	Alexei Hotcharenko, Peter Dustenk's Block, Odeshkina. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I have the next question. On 1 July, a very important step is to be taken in the reform of Ukrainian energy, namely the introduction of a competitive electricity market built on the principles of the Third Energy Package of the European Union. This is what was adopted by the Law of Ukraine, which is our obligation to our European partners. And we've all been expecting this, but now a month and a half before that, we're starting to hear statements that we need to put it off for a year, for two or maybe forever. And what's particularly disturbing is that we hear these statements, including from representatives of the so-called Green Command, the newly elected President. I'd like your position on this. Is the government ready to introduce a competitive electricity market since July 1, 2019, as provided by law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. As far as the electricity market is concerned. In accordance with the law passed by the Ukrainian Parliament, you determined and obliged the government to enter the market from July 1, 2019. And this bill has been done with our European partners, international partners, and it fully corresponds to the same markets that are in Europe. And all of this law has been upheld. So about the transfer, there is absolutely no such option. There is a clearly defined date – July 1, 2019. And the government is obliged to introduce all necessary normative documents. But it introduces the market, including the National Market Regulation Commission, which is independent of government. I want to inform you that we are coordinating this work so that there will be no malfunctions. Now for the calls. First, creating a market, essentially a full market of demonopolized, that's good, that's good, that's competitive, that's new quality of services, and it's actually lowering the price. But there may be different price fluctuations at the market introduction stage. And so for me, as Prime Minister, it's extremely important that, at the time of the market launch, there is no increase in the price of electricity for both the population and industry, that's what I'm thinking about today and what I'm working on today. So the problem is two. The first is to prepare the country to enter the market according to the law you passed. And the second is to create mechanisms that would not be able to raise the price at the very point in the introduction of the electricity market. These are the two tasks that I now face as Prime Minister and Government. These are the tasks assigned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I mean the introduction of the market. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u86	Thank you. And there's only two minutes left. And Dludenkov and Sisoyenko, two questions, we won't be able to make it anymore. Debenko's handing it to Galchenkov. Please. And then Sisoyenka. That will be the final question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u87	Andrew Galchenko, 32 constituency, the city of Curve Rig. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I see you inspecting the roads and talking about their quality. It's really, probably, but there's a city of Curve Rig on the map and I invite you personally to go in the direction: Mikolai, Kropivnicki, Herson of the city of Curve Rig, and you'll realize that there's a path, not a road. Why? Because people don't choose the road, they choose the ground cover, because it's better to go there. Carriers refuse to drive people because buses sit on the belly. I'm asking you to intervene in this situation and solve the road repair issue, because these five answers that the Ministry infrastructure gives me say, "No money, but you stick to it."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u88	Mr. People's Honourable Deputy, thank you very much for your question. In fact, it is an objective reality that roads are built for money, not for calling, not for fasting on Facebook or for swearing on social networks. That's how it happened. We are very grateful to the National Deputies for the voted road fund, which was allocated 32 billion dollars from the fuel excise fund for the first time in the budget last year. This year, more than 50 billion. And in the next, we believe that over 70 billion dollars will be directed to Ukrainian roads. We're taking an additional initiative to the MPs to put an additional 50 billion dollars into the budget next year so that we can repair all the roads that connect the district centers, the so-called "heaviest", over 10,000 kilometers over one year, and that can be done. In the fall of your path you refer to. In fact, she is in a bad condition. But I would like to make you happy that this year, as part of an experiment across Ukraine, the Dnipropetrovsk region has passed on to private companies such roads. The road that connects Dnipro and Curve Rig has already been repaired and is still on its way to Mikolai. That's why the job's coming. But once again, I stress: financing. Neighbouring Poland: 200 billion dollars in cash to finance roads plus 80 billion euros from the European Union budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u89	Thank you. And a final question. Sissyenko Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u90	Vladimir Borisovich, I address you. Vladimir Borisovich, last question, please. In Ukraine there are two children's highly specialized hospitals -- OHMATDIT and the Institute of Obstetrics, Pediatrics, Gynecology of the Academy of Medical Sciences. That's where they save the lives of children from all over Ukraine with the most complex pathology, and that's where they can survive pregnant women with heart defects, oncology and so on and so forth. And it's this medical facility that's in a catastrophic state right now that needs to be rehabilitated. Mothers with bicycles and children walk in the area in a state of emergency. Recently, a city of concrete collapsed, and, thankfully, no one died or suffered. I saw you driving, checking the quality of the roads. Vladimir Borisovich, as head of the PAG Supervisory Board, I invite you to come to this children's medical facility. And let's think together about how to save this hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. Motherhood, children are the most sacred. So, of course, as much as possible should be emphasized to create such conditions for mothers and children, mothers, and children to be born in normal, good, human conditions. Although I realize that there are many more. You know what kind of farm we got? In principle, it was not in one year that the hospital was so damaged or that it was not in one year that OHMATDIT was. By the way, OHMATDIT I promised a few years ago that we would finish it. We finished the first part, this year we're going to finish the second part, and we're going to do it. I'm going to hand over my equipment, I'm not going to assign any ministers and ministries to study and see how much it costs, whether we have the ability to fund something there to bring the order in. And if that is possible, I will certainly use it. I promise to take a close look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u92	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Thank you to the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, I want to report that there's been a break from two factions: the Opposition Block and the Rebirth. They're willing to trade it for a performance. And I give the floor to Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u93	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, we are now looking at this political farce that does the People's Front on the dissolution of the coalition. And we said earlier that there was no coalition. This data was constantly under seven such seals to prevent citizens from learning the truth. And the truth is that neither this coalition nor the authorities have legitimacy anymore. Besides their lack of legitimacy, they have long lost confidence. The Prime Minister spoke of that. I thanked the coalition members for what they did a lot. What did they really do? They destroyed industry, destroyed aviation, bought American locomotives, and purchased French helicopters. We've got it. We're just turning into an agrarian country. We admire, more specifically, the government boasts that now the largest revenue coming from the agrarian industry. And because metallurgy and chemistry have already gone to bed, you don't support metallurgy or chemicals. That was the driver of economic growth. What energy stimulus for economic development are we now talking about if we can't reach the macroeconomic level in 2013, when GDP was $183 billion, and now a little over $110 billion, when the minimum pension is now less than $80? It used to be twice. Minimum wage, devaluation three times. The standard of living of the population has deteriorated. This raised the tariff level. Why do you applaud? You didn't deserve any ovation. You deserve to leave this Hall of the Supreme Council as soon as possible. The results of the presidential election have already shown that the anti-reating of power is critical, that the people have lost confidence in you. I don't understand why we should applaud the government of Groysman, who effectively blocked Donbas, who introduced the pension verification procedure, thereby saving the pension payments of hundreds of thousands of pensioners living in unsupervised areas. This is the result of this government, this coalition, and this coalition, so far, the President. When people began to divide by language, by religious preference, they lived in a controlled and uncontrollable territory. And this hysteria, this agony will continue until they're in power. We all understand that the exit of the coalition and the declaration of cessation of the coalition is an unsuccessful attempt to continue the political life of this power, which has devaluation, which has already lost confidence among Ukrainian citizens. But in the end, Ukrainian citizens in elections, whether it's another one or an extra one, will make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u94	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u95	They're going to make the right decision and say no to this power, to this authority, which, under the slogans of the European perspective, has destroyed the economy, has turned Ukraine into the poorest country. It is one of the largest European countries and, unfortunately, the poorest, the poorest European country. And we don't need that perspective. We have an external relationship with all our neighbors, including the SND countries, and we are reelecting this authority as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, now, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have time to announce the parliamentary requests. The Presidency received 221 requests from Ukrainian national deputies from the Supreme Council Secretariat. And I'm moving on to their announcements. So Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government for the allocation of funds for the rapid intervention and replacement of the knee joint to Sharikov Tetya, inhabitants of the village of Korochenka of the Zhitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir Observatories for the provision of material assistance to the village of Korczak in the Zitomir district of Kulikovsky Victoro for the conduct of an aortical bypass surgery. Yuri Babia to the Prime Minister for opening the laissez-pass in the region of Ivano-Frankow. Yuri Babia to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the R-24 highway within the Upper and Kosovo regions. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister for the purpose of building an airport between Zaporozhye and Dnipro. Vadim Krivohatka to the Prime Minister, Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine, for the verification of the use of subsidies for the treatment of patients with a nephrological profile in Zaporozhi region. Jacob Besbah to Kabmin, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Henprocuratorial Office on possible facts of land violations. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSB, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Henprocuratorial Service, the Dnipropetroval Authority for the long-term investigation into the criminal investigation of the murder of military officer Taras Goodima in the military area of A-0264 of the city of Chernivci. Igor Shurma to the Head of the State Information and Security Service, Deputy Prosecutor-General of the Military Prosecutor for opening criminal proceedings against government officials for violating legislation in part of the risks of the flow of medical and personal data from the database of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine and the electronic health system "eHealth", which may pose a threat to the vitality of Ukrainian citizens. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for the responsibility of officials of the Ministry of Health for violating the rights of the Ukrainian National Deputy in part of the failure to provide information in accordance with the requirements of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Michael Bondar to the Secretary of Defense for the provision of free food (during the evening) for military service under the contract of an officer. Michael Bondar to the Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Development for the submission to the Supreme Council of a draft decision on the establishment and change of the border of the city of Radehov Radehov City Council of the Radehiv Region of Lviv Region. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Head of the Supreme Council on Health, Prime Minister on the need for a 19th-year allocation of $6.4 million in funds from the State Budget to provide equipment and items for the long-term use of the Commonwealth City Council's Communiqué non-commercial enterprise, the Children's Hospital of St. Zinaida, for the purpose of setting up a child's surgical department. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council for Science and Education on the request of the Board of Directors of Higher Education Institutions of the First Levels of Accreditation of the Suma Region and the Public Organization of the All-Ukrainian Association of Higher Education Workers of the Levels of Accreditation of the Suma Region on the need for the speedy review and adoption of the Bill on Professional Higher Education No. 8321. Igor Goose to the temporary duty of the Head of State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to allocate land to participants in hostilities in the territory of the separate administrative and territorial units of the Volin region. Igor Goose to the Minister of Defense on terms of surrender in the operation of a 44-bedroom residence for military and building barracks for the 14th OMB in Volodymiri-Wolinski. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Žitomir Observatories for medical treatment and medical care at the expense of budgetary resources; and the provision of material assistance. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Žitomir Observatories for operational intervention, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources; provision of material assistance; and provision of sanitation. Igor Kotwiecki, until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Head of the Kharkiv Obral, Head of the City of Kharkiv, Head of the Kharkiv Authority for the provision of ambulances in the Kharkiv region and in the city of Kharkiv. Anna Romanova to the Attorney General on violations of the rights of children in residential institutions. Anna Romanov to Minister of Education and Science, Head of the State Service for the Quality of Education of Ukraine, Head of the Chernigev Observance, Montenegro City Head for the Conservation of the Chernigiv Professional Lifeline. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister for bringing the amount of education and medical subsidies for 2019 for the Losov City OTH in line with actual needs. Sergia Soboljeva to the Minister of Justice, Minister of Interior, Henprocuror for the illegal actions of the private notary of the Kyiv City Notarial District of Kobeljeva Alla on the registration of property rights in Zaporozhye, eligible citizens of Thessaloniki Irina and Thessaloniki Jaroslav, without the knowledge of legal owners and without sufficient grounds for the Society with limited liability of Key Collect. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister for raising the level of social protection of citizens who participated in the elimination of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl AES. Taras Kremen to the Prime Minister regarding the conduct of a non-planned service inspection of the activities of the Mikolai government. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister on the insufficient implementation of the State budget. Anatoly of Denisenka to the minister of youth and sport for the implementation of the State's Goal Social Program "The Young Ukraine" for 16-20 years. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the development of a comprehensive State strategy for the development of Ukrainian industry and the need to address the issue with a significant decline in industry in Ukraine. Romana Macola until the temporary duty of Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnicka Observatories for refusing to set up a disability group. Vasil Nimchenk to the Head of the National Police, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the attack on the leader of the Lviv Regional Political Party Organization "The Opposition Platform for Life" by Ivanochko Innu, which took place on May 9, 19th. Alexander Gerega, Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Nazcomsia, who regulates national energy and municipal services in the areas of monitoring, verification and response to violations of the rights of natural gas consumers. Alexander Gerega, Andrija Šinkovič, to the Prime Minister for the implementation of legislation in part of the financing of general secondary education in private colleges at the expense of the state budget. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to improve the regulation and funding of state programmes for the provision of youth housing. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the approval of the new State Programme for the Protection and Conservation of Forests. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the creation and operation of the Export Credit Agency. Igor Lapina, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health, to take urgent measures to provide medical care to a citizen named Linnick, who is sick of porphyria. Igora Lapina to the Minister of Education and Science on gaps in normative acts, which regulate the principle of territorial zoning of the boundaries of public education. Savchenko's hopes for the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the lack of appropriate response by the Ministry of Defence to investigate the causes of the massive explosion that took place on the night of March 23, 2017 at the military base, the largest ammunition depot in Ukraine (in A 1352, 65 KRAU military arsenal). Edward Matviychuk to the Human Rights Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Vinnitsky Oblast, the Odessa Observatories, the Odessa Region, the Ukrainian Railway Association, regarding the need for a comprehensive response to the appeal of the resident of Odessa Melnik Vladimir Vladimirovich on the provision of material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment and social protection. Romana Macola to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency, Head of the Road Service in the Hmelnicke District, on the unsatisfying state of road coverage on the section of the public road N-25 Town - Raven - Starocostins from the settlement of the village of Tzvitocha to the town of Slavuta Hmelnicke district. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Henprosecutor for causing serious injuries to Mary Grechusi, medical staff of T.O., the International Medical Clinic, the failure to pay for the damage done to her health, and the long-term investigation of criminal offences. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Prosecutor-General for the illegal activity of Onur Construction International in the mining of sand in the territory of Poltava region, the use of measures to halt its illegal activities and to hold officials responsible for the damage. Alexander Granowski to the Minister of Education and Science for the transfer of a multi-family residence at the address: the Gagarin Prospect, 52, the city of Kharkiv, to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kharkiv. Vassila Petěvka to the Prime Minister for the improvement of the allowance for teachers. Andrija Lopushanski to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, head of the Lviv Observatories on the need for a subsidy from the State Budget of Ukraine to the local budget for the capital repair of the utility block in the village of Turje Staro Samabibi district of Lviv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the need to allocate funds from the budget of the Kyiv Region to the capital repair of the central infirmary of the general practice of family medicine in the city of Tarosa Kyiv district. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repairs of educational facilities in the Stavishten district of Kiev. Savchenko's hopes for the BSS, Henprokuror, director of the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensics, are to provide information on the conduct of pre-trial investigations into the causes of the massive explosion on the night of March 23, 2017 at the military base, the largest ammunition depot in Ukraine (in A 1352, 65 CRAU Armory of Ukraine), located near the town of Balakley Kharkiv district. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Regional Development, Ministry of Land Administration for Permanent Use for Construction and Service of the new premises of the Berez educational and educational complex "General Education Institute I-II, Pre-Trial Institute" of the Rokitnov Region. Oksana Bilozer to the Attorney General on the use of appropriate measures to protect citizens’ rights to housing. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for taking appropriate measures to ensure compensation for the damage caused by the property of local residents as a result of a fire in a military warehouse near the city of Ichnya Chernigiv district. Alexander Kodola to the Head of the Management of the Ukrainian Railway Association, Minister of Infrastructure to ensure the proper conditions of movement and convenient access to platforms for passengers at the Lower Regional Branch "South-West Railway" PAT "Ukrasalznica". Vassil Janicko to head of the Ravenna Oblast, Vara's City Head of the Plain area, to ensure the proper functioning of the educational complex "Preschool Institute - Public Education School I Grade" No.10 of the Vara City Council of the Plain Region. Oksana Bilozer to the Minister of Justice about the inappropriate conditions of the convicts in the Cherka Correctional Colony No.62. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the conservation of the wine and wine sector in Ukraine, for the creation of a competitive environment in the wine production market and for the development strategy. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the continuation in 2019 of the financing of the current repair of the road to the general use of the state value T-16-27 CAT "Serpneve"-Tarutine-Arciz-Sarat" km 39+918-km 57+510. Sergey Dunaev to the Prime Minister, Minister of Energy, the first deputy head of the Luhansk observatories to prevent a change in the name of the State Industrial Union as a stage in changing the form of ownership and privatization without taking into account the interests of the labour force. Igor Kotwitsky to the deputy head of the State Forest Resources Agency, Minister of Ecology for the resistance to self-incineration and the destruction of vegetation, the littering of forests with waste. Alexia Honcharenko to the Attorney-General on the state of pretrial investigation of criminal conduct against the Ukrainian national deputy Mosiyczuk Igor, who was detained in September 2015 in the Supreme Council building for suspected bribery, as well as on the official response of the Attorney-General to the reasons for the lengthy investigation of this resonant criminal conduct. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister on the inaction of law enforcement authorities in investigating the looting of natural resources in the village of the Town of Cherniakhiv district. Paul Dziblik to the Minister of Interior for Fraud in the People’s Region of the Zitomir Region. Maxim Burbak to the Minister of Education and Science for the creation of a training and practical centre based on the Kelmenack Professional Professionals from the profession of "Agriculture Trucker". Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services for the protection of the rights of consumers who do not have a commercial accounting of natural gas and to deal with certain issues of natural gas consumption by consumers in the absence of gas counters. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister for the social protection of Ukrainian citizens in part of the real estate tax, other than land, by exempting citizens who receive incomes less than the fixed subsistence minimum. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration to ensure the safety of the road traffic of residents of the Rajdzny District in the Dniprovi district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the restoration of the asphalt cover of the roadside and sidewalk along the Lisov Avenue in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister to address the problem of disposal that is not suitable for use of chemical plant protection products (HRDs). Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister for compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas accounting devices for natural gas users (population). Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for taking action in connection with the unsatisfying condition of the construction of the South Bank (Barvarov) bridge across the South Bug River in Mikolayev. Sergey Rudik is under the responsibilities of the city head of Cerkas region for the state of implementation of the city target program "Citizen budget of Smilla for 18-19 years" and the immediate allocation of funding for projects selected by the braves. Sergei Rudika to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance to increase the amount of medical subsidies to prevent overdue payments to health workers in Smila Cherkas region, as well as to increase the amount of funding to inform health care establishments that are being converted into community non-profit enterprises. Roman Semenha to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre regarding the free transfer of land for private farming. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister for the verification of possible illegal actions by officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the liquidation of a limited-liability society called the Morshin sanatorium "Prolysok" for children with parents, located at: Ukraine, Lviv region, Morshin city, ul. How Can I Help You? Vladimir Parasuka, until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Attorney General, director of the Department of Health of the Lviv District State Administration, for the possible illegal reorganization of the only child’s cardiovascular ward in western Ukraine. Alexander Vilkula to the Minister of Social Policy on the social protection of families with half orphans who are incomplete as a result of the death of one of the parents (parent or mother) in May 2019 and the state of their pension. Irina Konstanovic to Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation into the beating of DP TRK "Avers". Irina Konstankevitch to the Minister of Defence, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the restoration of historical justice, the recognition of the fighting path of the 51 separate Guard Mechanized Brigade of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Paul Rizanenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the materials of State Bank inspections. Paul Rizanenka to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region on the use of prosecutorial measures to eliminate violations of environmental legislation. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for possible illegal construction, which impedes free access to the Obalone Metro Station. Alexander Briginz to Kiev’s Local Prosecutor’s Office No. 7 on the possible illegal construction of a large apartment building at the address of the city of Kiev, Podilski district, ul. High Town, 47-Z. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of the Attorney-General, head of the Chernigow District Council on gross violations of the rights of the child in the Ninja boarding house. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Education and Science, the head of the Barashiv Rural Council, the head of the Emylchin district government administration, the head of the District Council of Zitomir, the head of the District Office for the gross violation of the rights of children in defence of violence and Bulling in the Chinese Republic of I-II. The Emylchin region of the Gitomir region. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on speeding up the solution to the question of the creation of the Gathnian united territorial community, which includes the villages of Gatne, Vita Postova and Jurovka, with an administrative centre in the village of Hathne Kyiv-Svetoshin district of the Kyiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the issue of financing the repair of local roads in the Fastev region of Kyiv. Vassila Petovka to the Prime Minister for the consideration of the interests of forest workers in mountain areas and for the regulation of the holding of stock exchanges from the purchase of unprocessed wood. Sergija Vlasenka to the head of the President's Administration for the possible abuse of Ukrainian President Peter Prashenko's rights after losing the second round of presidential elections, which took place on 21 April 2019. Groups of Nardeps (Conditional, Pober and others, only the 4th) to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Euro-Atlantic Integration, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the Protection of the Rights of Persons of the Private and Chief Officials of Internal Affairs, who were released during their vacation in connection with pregnancy and childbirth, the child-care leave until she reaches the age of three. Ruslana Demczak to Deputy Prime Minister Paul Rosenk for the purpose of clarifying the calculation of retirement age for persons who were mobilized to serve in the ATO and when they were in the ATO zone. Ruslana Demczak to Prime Minister, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the recalculation of pensions for former military personnel. Jury Lewchenk to the utility company "The Managing Company of the Gaussian Housing Fund of Kiev", the municipal company "The Managing Company of the illegal housing fund of the Darnik district of Kiev", the management company "The Managing Company of the housing fund of the right district of Kiev", the utility "The leading company of the management company of the housing fund of the city of Kiev", the management company "The leading company of the management company of the housing fund of the city of Kiev", the management company "The management company of the housing fund of the city of Kiev", the management company "The management company of the housing foundation of Chewchenkow, the management company of the residential area of Kiev, the compendium of the district of Obollon". Jury Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for failure to execute a court decision that was declared illegal by the head of KMDA Klick for raising tariffs on maintenance services for buildings and buildings and instigating areas. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister on the issue of housing for individual categories of citizens. John Melniczuk, head of the Winnitsk Observatories, in charge of providing the necessary means to move the Kucher citizen. Jury Timoshenko to Henprocuror for the inappropriate and ineffective conduct of criminal investigations. Jury Timoshenko to Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs of the Head of the BSC for possible illegal pressure on the public body. Igor Alekseieva to the Kyiv City Head for the removal of the accident-threatening road-covering hole in the street of Kosenko, in the city of Kiev. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister to increase the safety of road traffic. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexander Gerega are responsible for the executive director of Pat "Hmelnickoblenergo" Kozachuku for improving the quality of electricity service for consumers in the Isiaslav district of Hmelnick. Andrija Shinkovič and Alexander Gerega to the Minister of Defence, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council for the allocation of the death penalty in the area of anti-terrorist operation, Matthew Roman Mikhailovich, is posthumously called Hero of Ukraine. Alexander Dubinin and Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister to strengthen the social support of families with children by improving the material status of multi-child families and creating the right conditions for raising children in multi-child families. Alexander Kirsch to the Prime Minister on the arrangements for the allocation of housing subsidies to residents of the city of Kharkiv. Alexander Kirsch to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, director of the municipal firm "Hark heat networks" on social standards and tariffs for the calculation of utility services. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need for the approval of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out a pilot project on the implementation of state health care guarantees under the medical guarantees programme for outpatient secondary (specialised) medical care for 2019. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to provide the Cabinet of Ministers with timely tariff development of a health guarantee programme for the introduction of a quality draft of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020, taking into account expenditure for the implementation of a health guarantee programme of at least 5 per cent of GDP. Jaroslava Markević to the Attorney General, Prosecutor General of the Cherkas region, on the order of the Directorate of State Registration of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Cherkas region No. 3809/5 of 5 December 2018 on the abolition of the right to use land for TOV "FG Kiselov". Jaroslava Markević to Henprokuror, Prosecutor of the Lozov Local Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region for the Legality of Criminal Conduct No. 12018220190000643 of 23 June 2018 in the Vodjanicka A. I. Sergia Leshchenka to the Prime Minister for the pollution of Lake Harjačka in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the city of Kiev for the creation of proper conditions for schoolchildren. Juriya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister on the need to allocate funds from the state budget reserve to remedy the consequences of the disaster that took place on May 1, 2019 and led to a shift along the coast of the Bistrica River, the collapse of part of the road and the damage to the bridge in the village of Pnej of the region of Ivano-Frankow. Valery Pisarenko to the Prime Minister to ensure the functioning of the Ukrainian Presidential Fund to support educational and scientific programmes for young people. Valérie Pisarenko to the head of the Court of Auditors on the need to conduct an audit of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory. Gregory of Times to the temporary duty of head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre to ensure the proper and purposeful use of land belonging to the State Enterprise "Chernovetske Research Enterprise" of the Bukovinska Institute of Agricultural Production of the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences" in the territory of the inhabited areas: the village of Tsuren, the village of Mamornica Vam and the village of Mamornica of the Hertzay region of Cherniewec. Mikhail Papiev and Yuria Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, the head of the board of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the conduct of the financial and economic audit of the PAT PAT branch. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, the head of the government of the public shareholders association of Naftogaz Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, to provide an official explanation of the situation with price fluctuations for natural gas for the population. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Culture, for the allocation of funds for the completion of the capital repair at the Kremenac School of Arts of Verikowské Ternopilsk Region. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the Pension Fund, the High Council of Justice, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office, the Odessa Ombudsman, the Odessa People's Republic of the Odessa Region on the review of the application of the work team of the Odessa Centrolite on the application of enforcement measures, the payment of salaries for work performed and the restoration of rights violated. Jurya Berezi to the Prime Minister for the violation of disciplinary conduct regarding the head of the Montenegrin State of Romana for the obstruction of the activities of the Public Council at the holding of custody. Jury Bereza to the Prime Minister on the underfunding of the Fifth Reichdore, which has led to the creation of debt from the wages of the company, as well as the non-use of the full capacity of the enterprise, which has a negative impact on the state of the roads and the development of the Fifth District of Dnipropetrov. Robert Gorvato to the minister of finance for the promotion of the creation and activities of family farms and the development of the production of terratorial wines. Dear colleagues, we have completed the announcement of 221 MPs' request with you. I would also like to point out that, according to the Rules, Ukrainian national MPs have the right to register their dissatisfaction, a statement of dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to their parliamentary requests, and to claim, to demand the right to speak. A number of statements from the Ukrainian national deputies came to the fore, asking such questions. Please, I'd like to have a word with you. National Deputy of Ukraine Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u97	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine. Today, I am dissatisfied with the response to the request I am sending for the interests of the Kiyeva city’s kyans, the inhabitants of the Podil district. It's so obvious that I'm even ashamed to talk about it from the rostrum of Parliament because it's about repairing underground passages, covering underground passages. Is this a question for the Supreme Council at all so that we can talk about it from the main rostrum of the country? Sadly, though, this has to be done because even in such basic things we see either sabotage or the inaction of the city of Kiev. With the community, we've sent dozens of appeals on a lot of issues, we've been to the mayor's office. We hear promises, we get write-offs, but unfortunately, the process stands. It is an underground crossing on the streets of Natalia, the Christmas tree and the avenue of truth in the Podilj district of Kiev. I appeal to the Kyiv authorities. Well, please, enough of this nonsense that we've even had to do basic things for the good of our capital! I'm not going to talk about the country's sinks, about what they're building that's made of multi-story across the city, the whole land mafia and all of this is going to be real estate, and then the political projects are going to be invested, washed away, and then, through political institutions, we get corrupt power again and again. I still have another one and a half minutes left that I want to give a different subject. It's about the cynical, absolutely unprincipled, dirty effort of Attorney General Lucenka to hold on to his position in order not to resign, because he's politically finished any credit of confidence. He's a political bankruptcy, he's a man who has to leave the Attorney General's office and not embarrass this chair. But in order to preserve this, he's going to play a totally sublime scenario, bringing all of Ukraine as a coin exchange into the American political campaign in the election of the President. He contacted one of the U.S. President Juliani's unofficial advisors, and he said, "You're hiding me here in Ukraine, you're backing me up, you're putting pressure on the Ukrainian new president of Zelensky, and I'm going to do everything for you here, anything you say to help you in the American elections." As a soccer ball, we were thrown into this field to play the Ukrainian card in America before the 2020 election. He and his deputy, the Cold Man, over the last two years, have violated two criminal cases against me, trying to get me involved in this fight. I demand that Parliament and Lucenka submit an application for my removal immediately. Call for questioning, but don't involve all of Ukraine in this disgraceful spectacle that you're playing so you don't leave positions that you don't belong to, because you've been hired by citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u98	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm still asking you to speak next time. 15 seconds to complete, but I'm asking for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u99	I was speaking on the subject. And I'm finishing my line. Don't play this cheap show, get out of your position. If necessary, please do all necessary follow-up, but you do not need to make Ukrainian citizens hostage to your ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u100	Please make the next statement. National MP Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the election is over. Monday at 10 a.m. will be the inauguration of the new president. But I think these elections are going to be in the interest of the law enforcement agencies for a long time, even though the President who's going told us that they were the fairest elections. Perhaps the second round was because it was impossible to falsify the difference of 50 percent between him and the newly elected president. But if we go back to the first round, we're going to see the use of the administrative resource, and the built-up powder grid, and the manipulation of the media, and the creation in Ukraine of "Russia Today," which somehow is called "Prime" channel, and the use of propagandists instead of journalists who don't understand exactly what journalist standards are. One element of counterfeiting and influence on Ukraine’s citizens was the first round, and on the first tour was the external advertising campaign by Peter Poroshenko. Unfortunately, Peter Alexiyovich’s caution prevented him from spending his own money when he was president on his election posters, and he launched these posters as social advertising. That is, posters signed by the name of Peter Poroshenko were considered to be social advertising and were placed free of charge for some reason. After I received the answer that some of the posters, the president's billboards, were not paid, I asked the Ukrainian President's Administration to explain who was paying for the powdery advertising boards during his election campaign. Of course, I was told of nothing, as always, that they did not know how it was going on, that they had nothing to do with it, that they did not understand at all what it was like when it came along, and so on. I emphasize once again, all of this proves that the first round of President of Ukraine's election was obviously unfair. The President's first round of election was obviously manipulated. By the way, I forgot to mention another outstanding program of modern times like the Turbot program that voters bought for Peter Alexiyovich. I forgot to mention, I forgot to mention mass surveys and mass collections of personal data signed by the President of Ukraine. I forgot to mention that a number of actions were being carried out by a presidential candidate, but somehow they were being branded as the President's actions, that is, free of charge. So the broadcast was free of charge. And as a result, we are told that the elections were fair. So I think the law enforcement authorities are going to give an honest assessment of the first round of presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u102	Please make the next statement. National MP Mustafa Nayem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of one thing that we wanted to spoil with the elections and call political technology, but which we have not forgotten. I'm talking about the murder of Catherine Gandzück. Many people throughout the country — activists, journalists, public figures, politicians — advocated her family's right to know who killed her. And this Saturday, the country will have the biggest action on the murder of activists, the attack on activists all over the country. 40 cities in Ukraine will rise in one row at 12 o'clock in your cities. People from New York, Berlin and other countries will also join us. Activists and journalists will come up with one question: Who kills activists in Ukraine? Who exerts pressure on them? It's not just in Herson, it's happening in Harkow, it's happening in Severodonetsky, it's happening in Kiev, it's happening in Odessa. In the Odessa region, called the criminal capital of the country, the Odessa People's Republic is still working and functioning freely, which under the cover of law enforcement and local authorities is exerting pressure on everything that concerns both the pro-Ukrainian and the district. The appeal to the Attorney General's Office resulted in the Office of the Attorney General sending our request to the Security Service. The Security Service sent the local police. And now local law enforcement agencies are investigating themselves. And we demand and ask everyone who hears this talk: on Saturday at 12:00 in your cities there will be a protest with the first question to Vladimir Zelensky. Because he will now answer who will be the Attorney General, who will be the prosecutors in the cities, who will run the Security Service, and who will lead the Security Service in all areas. It was those who allowed themselves to be killed, attacked, shot, threatened, including in cities where the pro-Russian forces still functioned. We will ask only one thing: show us the names of those who order the murder, even if they are under the cover of authority, former authority, or new authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I now announce a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. And I want to remind all the Ukrainian national deputies that after the break, the MPs will be able to take part in the performances during the traditional series of performances in the 'Variance'. I very much ask everyone to return on time to the session hall, all who want to sign up for the talk. And at 12:30, that's exactly what you're going to be able to do. And now we have a break of 12 hours for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u105	Colleagues, national deputies, we continue our work. Please, please, everyone willing to return to the hall to participate in the discussion at the Miscellaneous. Everyone remembers that only their buttons are pressed. Don't touch strangers. Please record. Recording, yes. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Sporish. He was given the word of a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u106	Ivan Sporish, Peter Prashenko's Block, Winnitzkin, not a coalition. First of all, I want to say that the way out of the People's Front today from the coalition is not bad. What is done is done for the better. And perhaps we will not be downhearted, but we will be fine. The Supreme Council has both worked, one of the best Supreme Councils, and it will work. But, again, my speech, and I would like all of us who are speaking today to start speaking or even to mention today for the deportation of Crimean Tatars. It's really a crime, it's a crime committed by the commies. And today, all of us in Ukraine, all of us speaking today should speak for it. Because I would very much like the Crimean Tatars on their own land to feel really masters. Unfortunately, there is no such thing today, because we can see that Putin's regime is doing everything to keep them out of it. So I think we should be very, very sympathetic to the Crimean Tatars and say everything so that they can be free as quickly as possible. The second thing I would very much like to pay attention to, and I'll say that today I've been asking questions to the Prime Minister, saying that, after all, they should, the Cabinet of Ministers, pay attention to simple farmers. We're not talking about big holdings today, we're not talking about big companies today, we're talking about simple farmers today. And that's why I had a question, and it was about that, in fact, the return on construction, on the reconstruction of animal farms, should happen, and first of all, it should be for small farms. But we see it all the other way around: big holdings get the money, and small farms get the rest. And that's why, on the other hand, many farms couldn't get the money. So I would like very much, I would like the Cabinet of Ministers, and today the Prime Minister himself has given the Ministry of Agropolitans the task of checking all of this out. And again, I wanted to pay a lot of attention to my district, and now we have to think for our people all the time, in my district there's the Chernivecki region, where again, I remind you where people put 50 million dollars into the land for the gasification of the Blacks, for the gasification of the village of Mazurovka. These funds, unfortunately, are lost today and I would very much like Naftogaz to pay attention to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u107	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u108	Well, to make sure that these costs are not invested in vain, so that this underwater pipe can still be helped by these 6 kilometers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, dear fellow citizens! Tomorrow, May 18, Ukraine, the Crimean Tatar people in the occupied Russia Crimea. The entire world, with Crimean Tatar and Ukrainian diaspora, will mark the 75th anniversary of the Soviet Union’s genocide of the Crimean Tatar people on May 18, 1944. On May 18, tomorrow, in Kiev, as well as in Kharkiv, Odessa, in Herson, and in the Hersonic regions, and elsewhere in the mainland of Ukraine, numerous memorial measures will take place to commemorate the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. Such measures will also take place in the temporarily occupied Crimea, and the Crimean Tatar community will meet with separate measures, without the control and care of the occupying authorities. Throughout the world, in dozens of countries, organizations of the Crimean Tatar and Ukrainian diaspora, Ukrainian diplomats will act as organizers of many sad measures. You know, on May 9, the Parliament of Latvia was the first foreign parliament to recognize the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people as genocide. Tomorrow at 12:00 a minute of silence will be announced throughout Ukraine, using electronic media. This minute will be shaped by the sound of a metronome. At 6 p.m. tomorrow in Kiev, the Mayan of Independence, there will be a sad rally to commemorate the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. I take this opportunity to speak out of the Supreme Council's rostrum and we are being listened to by fellow citizens, and I want to invite and invite everyone who can afford it to come to Kiev tomorrow at 6 p.m. to attend the Mayan Independence and be side by side with the Crimean Tatars, with the Ukrainians who were forced to leave Crimea as a result of the temporary occupation. It will not only be a tribute to the memory of the victims of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people, it will be a demonstration of our support for today's still occupied Crimea and hundreds of thousands of Crimean Tatars, and of the ethnic Ukrainians living in our Ukrainian Crimea. Tomorrow at 6 p.m. on the Main Independence Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u111	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Halasyuk, and he has been given the word of two of his colleagues, scheduled for six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u112	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, our team insists on a radical change in the country's economic policy. Economic policy must be pursued, not in the interests of foreign creditors or foreign ambassadors, but in the interests of every 43 million Ukrainians, and today’s energy policy is a powerful example. Gas tariffs in Ukraine, as a result, pay for utilities is significantly higher, and citizens are unable to pay such European tariffs at the lowest level of wages and pensions in Europe. Ukraine is extracting its own gas, which provides a lion’s share of the needs of both the population and industry. At the same time, under the IMF’s ruling, today’s authorities have increased Ukrainian gas prices to European levels, putting millions of Ukrainians in a difficult position. People can't pay these overpayments, as a result of the housing and utility debt, they've already reached 70 billion dollars. This is a huge sum, which is a judgment in the energy and economic policies of today's government. In general, energy should be a trampoline for economic development, not a burden on the neck of every Ukrainian. The Radical Party team is proposing a concrete plan to change this. A fair price for gas, extensive energy-generating, less energy-addictivities of Ukraine from ransom fuel, as well as an increase in Ukrainian gas production, pay to Ukrainian miners and gas generators, instead of counting billions of dollars annually to foreign countries. This is something that today simply requires a new authority to correct the mistakes of the previous one. What is more, we see today the biggest trade war in the United States and China. The world economy is undergoing tectonic changes that the world has never seen, new market niches, new opportunities. And it's only up to the Ukrainian authorities whether Ukraine will remain an observer, whether it will become a powerful player in this arena, and will be able to take a substantial amount of economic pie to increase the pensions and wages of Ukrainians and create millions of new jobs. In fact, this trade war between the United States and China is an opportunity to create hundreds of thousands and even millions of new jobs in Ukraine, as the Radical Party's plan foresees. But it is certainly not enough to observe that this requires immediate adoption of the industrial reform package proposed by our team, which we have been addressing this morning in our request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Very specific industrial initiatives supported by the Ukrainian Employers' Federation in the employer's manifesto, supported by the Ukrainian Association of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs in an anti-crisis way, supported by the Ukrainian Business Association. What are these initiatives about? On job creation, on investment, on production development and on wage increases, and on pensions in Ukraine. This is primarily a package of industrial park billings, these are powerful investment incentives that will allow Ukraine not only to participate, but to win competition for investment, for new jobs, for new exports and for production. And this package of bills has to be put on the next Thursday and adopted by Parliament, as required by Ukrainian employers and producers. There's a bill in Parliament on free integration into engineering networks. The Radical Party team proposes to rid itself of corruption, artificial investment barriers that have been built for decades in Ukraine. We want to make Ukrainian energy work, the infrastructure works, like in the United States and Israel. If a new one is being built: agricomplex, production, this, this, this is going to happen without any struggle, without any bureaucracy. The relevant bill has already been approved by the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship, which is central to its consideration, is ready for adoption in the Hall. We need to take it now. The next initiative is an absolutely revolutionary bill for Ukraine: "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." The United States has been living under the American Buy Act since 1933, and we're only now taking on their experience. Well, it's better to do it now than ever. We have to do everything to make Ukraine stop being a raw colony of successful and wealthy neighbours so that we can stop being donors of talented people, of working hands, of intelligence for other countries, so that we, the whole Ukrainian nation, and not a single bunch of people, are rich in industry, economy, enterprise and innovation. This is the plan proposed by the Radical Party team. In order for everything to happen quickly, not only tax incentives, but also radical change in monetary policy, not just preferences for Ukrainian producers. This is the draft amendments to the Constitution that we have tabled in Parliament, and it is already supported by the profiling committee, so that Ukrainian Nazbank, like the U.S. Federal Reserve System, is responsible, including for promoting long-term economic growth and overcoming unemployment. This is a real pro-Ukrainian economic policy. Support, regardless of your party membership.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u113	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency district, Brodivsky, Bussky, Kamyanka Buzhký and Radehov district Unfortunately, today it was not possible to ask Deputy Prime Minister Zubka about changing the boundaries of the city of Radehova. But when I approached him and spoke to him separately, he assured me that the submission was being handled in the Ministry and that it would soon be submitted to other ministries to agree and sign. So increasing the boundaries of the city of Radehova, I hope that by the end of this cadence the parliament will approve. Because, actually, for 4.5 years, I've been a deputy mayor of 119 constituencies, including the city council, trying to change those boundaries. And unfortunately, these circles of hell that are going through -- both the geocadastral and the various ministries, and the harmony, hopefully, will end, and will end logically for the Radehova. And I also want to go to the Ministry of Health: the issue of Radehov is hemodialysis. 15 people in the area are sick with this disease, and the problem is that to get to the procedure, you only have to travel in public transport about 70 kilometers, respectively, 140-150 on both sides, and it's like for people who have this problem -- hemodialysis, that's not very good, it's not very useful. And by working together with the city council, with the district district, we were able to find a room, partly to raise funds to repair the building. But there's a problem with the frame. Repeated visits to the central district hospital, meetings with doctors. Unfortunately, there is no such expert now, a nephrologist. And so I want to go to the Ministry of Health to get involved, to have an impact on this situation through advice, active participation, not just to find this doctor, but perhaps more programs to get more of them involved, because, believe me, the disease is very difficult, and we need to create as many positive conditions as possible for these people who are ill with it to be able to heal. Thank you. I hope for close cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u115	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u116	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! A few days ago we were in the country, celebrating Family Day. And today, I would like to dedicate my speech to this very issue. Well, I'm glad that there's our young future generation up there, our future parliaments, we have colleagues here. I think that everyone, in principle, has a direct bearing on that word, the charming, probably the word "family," and I would like to focus on that. In the village of Vojnovka, in the region of Alexandria, there is a children's house called the Pearl. I'd like to welcome the children from this great rostrum, the entire management unit, all the employees of this children's house, and welcome to their big holiday home: the 18-number children's house will be 20 years old. The children’s home is not large enough, but it is quite friendly and quite real in relation to one another, that is, they are a real family. And I would like to focus every Ukrainian's attention on the fact that, good people, respect family values, and consider how you feel about your family, loved ones, your friends. Because it's these kids who live in children's homes that understand it the most. Over the last three years, these kids and I have been through a lot of good and bad. We were traveling with them to Kiev. We visited the Pyrogovo Museum, visited the circus. But quite often they asked me the very question of treatment at the OHMATDIT Children’s Center. In particular, I would like to thank the director of OHMATDIT and thank those doctors who provide them with free medical assistance and support. That's probably all I'd like to say today. I wanted to pay attention once again to each one of you: take care of yourself, take care of your families. Because Ukraine must be a whole country, a single country, a large family of friends. Good luck to you all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u117	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u118	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Respectable squires! Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! There aren't many of you here, but the more you're valuable and expensive to Ukrainians as working deputies. In fact, there is a lot of talk today about Parliament’s fear of going to the early elections. I'm going to open up a terrible secret for all of our television viewers: here almost half the MPs dream of having Vladimir Zelensky announce the election now for the term, because it will allow them to be absolutely confident that they will turn to parliament again. Because they fed themselves to the districts because they fed themselves places on closed lists. Because they need no one to change the electoral system and remove them from it because of corruption over and over again for decades to the Ukrainian Parliament. Since they hide here from criminal responsibility, they need to preserve the integrity and immunity of the national MP. If it's a timely election now, they're saving it all. And we're losing the ability to force them to do what they promised by going to this Parliament: change electoral legislation, introduce open electoral lists, abolish parliamentary integrity. The question, then, is whether this Parliament should be dissolved or not? I'll tell you from my experience. I am the first deputy to the Committee on Legal Policy to consider a change in electoral legislation and this promise of open lists. Do you know how many of the 31 members of the committee attended a scheduled session of the committee, where there were more than 30 issues of the agenda to consider these issues and make a decision? I'm alone! Of the 31 members of the committee, I'm alone! I was with journalists, with assistants from the Secretariat for half an hour, waiting for anyone else to show up. No one showed up. I have the greatest desire to drive this Parliament and these deputies, because it is unprofessional, it is incompetent, it is inexplicable, it is unscrupulous, it is unscrupulous. It's not even about Parliament, it's about MPs who don't walk or work, but there's a lot of them. This is Friday, working day, sitting here from the 15-20 MPs of the 450s. Now, dear fellows, is this Parliament worth the effort? Of course, it is worth it, but will it change the situation so that we can make the next Parliament quality and professional? Only a change in electoral legislation before the next election – without this the quality of parliament is not changed. This is a promise and a requirement. I'm addressing the newly elected President of Vladimir Zelensky. You also have open election lists. I assure you today that you have the opportunity to force this Parliament to live up to its promises. You have social support -- 73 percent of voters. You have the opportunity today, a unique opportunity to force MPs to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u119	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u120	We have a unique opportunity to go to the next election for new electoral legislation. We have to use that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u121	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u122	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs, honourable Ukrainians! 117 constituency, city of Lviv, Oksana Jurinec. In fact, there's a lot to talk about, but you know, in the last period of time, it's very important that there is something to talk about. And as a major deputy, yes, of course I'm in favour of changing the electoral system. It should be more clear and transparent, but it should also be clear to those who should choose their representatives here. This means that this electoral system is definitely not closed electoral lists. This means that the one who chooses his deputy must have constant contact with him. They're supposed to hurt for their territory, and here, the entire geography of Ukraine is supposed to be gathered in the hall. There must be representatives from every territory so that every Ukrainian in the smallest, most distant area can think and worry. And I'll be honest with you: you know, today I can clearly talk about what's changed. As the head of the subcommittee for the regional development of cross-border cooperation of the Committee for European Integration, they used to say to me, "Why are you going? It's never going to be lame, it's never going to change." You know, we've shown clearly that 144 amendments, we can work them out and show that we're effective. When it was said that decentralization, going to the elections that everyone for decentralization would give nothing, it gave. The city of Lviv today has an opportunity to have a development budget of more than 3 billion. So there's another question -- the efficiency of spending and a number of programs that have to work for the city, and a number of strategic projects that have yet to be implemented, but only together, together is the result. And not to be turned around in paper, to be honest, that I failed, but to remember very well what I was able to do. And it is very important that in Ukraine there should be a certain legacy of what you do. Sometimes to be an effective MP, you have to work at 120-130 percent more. You know why? Because aside from the pressure you have from every voter, which could be, for example, the Centre for Reproductive Medicine, talking about what is now born in Ukraine, whether it's, for example, a question of prenatal center, or whether it's OHMATDIT. There's a lot of questions that you're supposed to raise here as a major every time. But there's something else. And what's very important is that we see a little bit further than the next election, than certain political ambitions. And it's very important that every time we make a decision, we clearly understand and measure every law we make here, because if it doesn't. You know, in ancient Rome, laws were passed a little differently. If someone was there and said that, in fact, this law could be more harmful than positive, this person was not coming out of the courtroom alive. This is dangerous, and we have probably already changed this tradition, but today it is vital that these chairs are not rocked to the detriment of the country. And with full responsibility to everyone who does.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u123	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u124	When it comes to education, medicine, and normal economic issues, every day of every Ukrainian, we need to look after and think and make decisions in this Parliament. That's why we're all here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u125	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u126	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Honorable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, unfortunately, today, through the electoral battalions and other political games, we forget the main thing, and we forget what is most important to the state, which is enshrined in the Constitution: life and the health of citizens. We forget that every ordinary citizen of Ukraine needs to be cared for. Today, there is a catastrophic environment situation, and the task of the Radical Party is to change not only the economic policy of the state, but the environmental policy of the state. Because today, unfortunately, the state has become an accomplice to what is growing statistics on diseases of different kinds: cardiovascular, oncological. The state collects a huge amount of environmental tax, which does not even go to a special fund for conservation, for modernisation, but goes to the general fund of the state budget. I'll get you some terrible statistics. In 2017, 4 billion dollars were collected and, unfortunately, less than 25 percent was used for environmental purposes. Where else was the money, we don't understand. And everyone suffers from it, we suffer, our children suffer, the environment is lost, and it's very difficult to get back. We declare European values here, so let's look at the leading experience of European countries. Let's make the state an initiator of change, because today we all well understand that there is no money in the budget to save the environment, but those are in industrial enterprises that are the main polluters of the environment. How can you motivate them to invest in hardware upgrades, make capital investments? The state has something to offer, because today it's just collecting taxes -- a dot without even reporting where that money is going. We have proposed two bills that will allow us to find some compromise that will benefit every citizen of Ukraine. We suggest that, first of all, the money go to the government budget target fund. Secondly, companies that invest, after they have done so, will receive tax benefits of up to 70 percent of the environmental tax. So we're going to give enterprises the opportunity to invest, and we're going to encourage them to do it in a transparent and clear way. We also want to reduce corruption in these bills, perhaps in the distribution of money, because we remember very well the VAT situation. We insist that compensation go automatically, so that everything is transparent, clear, and there are no sources of corruption, so that we don't do state institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u127	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u128	Instead of doing everything to preserve the health and life of Ukrainian citizens and to preserve a clean environment for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u129	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the people's MP Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u130	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, this statement about housing problems, which is currently at a loss for the majority of its citizens. The present state of this life - sustaining sector of our nation’s economy is characterized as an emergency. The country’s R & D is highly energy-intensive, and almost half of the major assets in businesses work ineffectively. One of the main problems of the HKG is the insufficient supply of services to consumers. Yes, nearly 60 percent of the networks are worn - down, and the end-user’s losses are more than 30 percent. In order to cover these costs, tariffs are increasing, with the technical status of the major foundations of the industry, which are both morally and physically outdated, unfortunately, not improving. The increase in tariffs does not stop the cost of businesses, which once again leads to an increase in tariffs. This eventually leads to a discrepancy between the quality of services and tariffs. The damage to HKG companies is not to the extent that it is not covered even by the help of the local companies. from the local budget. In order to deal with the situation, I think it is necessary to look for funds to finance the work involved in resupplying companies. A source of resupply to HKG companies may be the available credit resource, but large debts are not allowed to borrow credit. Debt receivables are subject to taxes on all levels of the budget, resulting in a tax mortgage on the entire property of residential and utility enterprises. For the sake of life - support, the city councils are prepared to provide financial support to the LHC to pay off tax debts for the withdrawal of property from the tax system. But tax laws in part pay fines and pennies for non-timely payment of taxes make it impossible to take measures to heal the entire HKG system. There is currently a bill registered in Parliament under number 10097 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce the tax burden on taxpayers. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code by cancelling a penny and reducing the amount of fines that are accrued when the controlling authority determines the amount of the tax liability. Therefore, according to the foregoing, I ask the National Deputies to support the adoption of amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code in part of the cancellation of the foam and the reduction in the amount of fines that are accrued in the case of the determination by the controlling authority of the amount of the tax liability. And finally. And yesterday and today, under the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers and under the walls of the Supreme Council, people are protected from working on dangerous and harmful conditions in businesses. Their questions are simple, they are concerned about the return of those who have been laid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u131	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u132	They are concerned about the return of their social security and payments. I have repeatedly addressed the Prime Minister, the authorities. I've already signed the decree on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u133	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u134	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. My colleagues, I would like to sum up the work of this Supreme Council. Why the Summaries? Because it is almost obvious to me that in the near future we will see the decree of the newly elected President to dissolve this Parliament. We can argue for a very long time whether it is legally balanced, correct, reasonable. But let us be objective with you that the political component, it completely overlaps the legal component. And from a political point of view, the parliament, which has 4, 3, 2 percent, is judged differently, by people and 73 percent of people's trust in the newly elected President, obviously predominates any legal argument we have with you. Why did this happen? I think it's very important that we always draw conclusions from our mistakes. If we draw conclusions, we become stronger and better. If we do not draw conclusions, we will again and again tread on the same rakes. What was the Dignity Revolution about? The Dignity Revolution was about justice, about justice, about the European vector of Europe in Ukraine. What really happened? Justice. Whether we have judicial reform today, an updated judiciary, punished judges who have made unjust decisions, the non-interference of the state, the President, the President's Administration and all of these. Call policy? No, we don't. To this day, the complete architecture of the courts has been subordinated to Poroshenko, under Bankovo, so that illegal actions can continue to be covered up and directed to judges. We've seen it absolutely in both the administrative courts and the courts of general jurisdiction and, in principle, in the higher courts. Next. The D.A.'s office. The same applies to justice. Did the promises made by all the attorney generals who stood here and made promises to you and not to you make promises to people? No, they're not executed. To date, no prosecutor, the Attorney General who passed through this House, has fulfilled any of his promises, including Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. This means that the prosecutorial reform system has also failed. A law enforcement system. Yes, there were certain first steps, some successes. But the criminal part of the police, it doesn't work or work, people don't feel protected. And the last. European integration. Everyone is covered up by European integration. Everyone's talking about a European vector. And in fact, apart from the tape in the Constitution, neither the government nor the President, nor this Parliament really did anything. 20 percent of what we have today is an estimated amount of commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u135	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u136	We have 20 percent of our obligations under the Association Agreement. And this was the road map for turning Ukraine into Europe, creating Europe in Ukraine. That's why it's too big.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u137	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u138	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens who watch us on TV and listen on the radio! You know, here comes the end of this Supreme Council of Ukraine. I say that with pleasure, because in fact this Supreme Council of Ukraine has not accepted anything for our citizens, for our people. They fought against the church, then fought against the language, then fought against something else. Today we have the highest tariffs in the world and the lowest wages, the lowest pensions and the most vulnerable citizens of Ukraine. But I'd like to talk about, among other things, some very serious things that actually make it impossible for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today in accordance with the law. You know, there's the Basic Law of the country -- it's the Constitution of Ukraine. And there is the basic law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation. It is not even necessary to refer to the Constitutional Court today, but all Ukrainian national deputies can confirm that the Rules administered today by the Supreme Council of Ukraine do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Why? Because when they returned the Constitution of Ukraine from the Presidential Parliamentary to the parliamentary-presidential Republic, because of circumstances or ignorance, they forgot to return the Rules, which were approved in 2008, which corresponded to the Constitution of Ukraine which is fully in force today. And what do we have? We have today the Rules that correspond to the Constitution of the Presidential Parliament, and the Rules, which are not meant to be introduced, I have addressed the Head of the Supreme Council repeatedly, which contains all these things and all the procedures that have taken place today in violation of the Rules. There are, in the 2008 edition, and the order of formation of coalitions, and the order of changes in coalitions, and the order of dissolution of coalitions, the order of action of opposition. What happened today? What action took place in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without any rule of law, declared anything today. Well, actually today, I realized that the fact that I knew the entire Ukrainian people, that there was no coalition in the Supreme Council for more than two years now, was formalizing what I understood. Today, it has been said legally that there is no coalition. And today there is every reason for the newly elected President to do exactly what millions of Ukrainian citizens expect to do: disband this Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm pretty sure that the level of non-admission of this room and the fact that you didn't actually work for the people gives moral and legal reasons for the newly elected President of the 20th to declare a decree, the 21st decree will be published. Corresponding to 77 articles during the course of this series.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u139	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u140	During 60 days, elections will take place on July 14. And I welcome this to the Ukrainian people, and I'm sure the President will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u141	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u142	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today the government, responding to the question of the collapse of the coalition, told us about the new order of the day, about the new economic laws and about top-35 government priorities. And I want to ask the government, is there a tax issue at the top of this? Obviously, the government doesn't hear and the government doesn't understand that this has become a national idea of Ukrainian small, medium and large business. Yesterday, not only did AutoEuroSila stand under Parliament and not just a car on a foreign registration. Yesterday, there was a very modest presence of entrepreneurs who work, who fill the budget, and who don't require anything from the state, they don't ask for anything. But they hope that the national idea that has been taxed on capital in the last four years will be embodied by this Parliament. How is such taxation better for entrepreneurs and for the state, meaning, and for all Ukrainians? Money will stay in Ukraine, it won't come out of the country as a royality, it won't be a percentage of the non-residents, as it is now to avoid paying income taxes. This simplified tax administration, there will be no endless tax checks that prevent business from working. And today entrepreneurs are forced to prove that they are right, cost rather than focus on their activities. There's going to be capital for the next investment in production, which will lead to an increase in the economy, an increase in jobs, and Ukrainians won't have to go abroad looking for jobs. The tax on the capital outflow already in the third year will cause an additional increase of 1 percent of GDP and investment in at least 110 billion dollars each year. More money gets a government budget, which means extra pensions, new hospitals, schools, roads. And finally, Ukraine will be able to compete for an investor with other countries. Because today, in neighbouring Poland, an investor can get tax breaks for a profit of 10, 12 or even 15 years, depending on the size of investments and the level of unemployment in the region, and the number of jobs created. Hungary reduced its income tax to 9 percent. Latvia, Estonia, Georgia today have no income tax at all; there is now a tax on the capital. In this room, there is talk of trade wars and competition for an investor between the United States and China, where an investor will place his production and create jobs. So I want to ask you, my dear colleagues, what about the government: where is Ukraine in this competitive fight? What can we compete with an investor today, rather than creating a favourable tax environment, rather than cancelling the income tax and introducing the tax on the capital outlay? And so, I very much hope that, among that new order of the day government and among the top-35 priorities, there will be a vote and an introduction by our Parliament, at least in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u143	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u144	a bill amending the Tax Code, cancelling the income tax and introducing the tax on the capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u145	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national MP Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u146	In the days before, we heard and voted in favour of a decree that should save one district in the Gitomir region from the environmental disaster that the locals faced. It's very good that someone, in the end, decided to save some part of the country, but in saving one piece, somehow another authority is happy to kill another. I'm going to talk about Kiev, Kiev, and one of its districts, the Trinity. It's a very nice initiative from Kyivrada and KMDA that Kiev needs a new garbage disposal plant, a good idea, I support. But for some reason it was decided that he would be placed in the Trinity so that the locals could breathe all the things he would throw away. Then the stories started: but no, it's going to be environmentally clean, there's going to be filters. Look at these filters that are now on the Harkowsk Massive. When local residents breathe there, they say that the more polluted air is nowhere in the country, not only in Kiev. To the local government, the Kiev authorities can't be trusted, they change their positions every time: no, it's not a garbage factory, it's a garbage treatment plant, and then they say again, there's no factory, and they're spending money to develop documentation. Yes, they lie every time, and they don't tell us that there's going to be a big garbage dump in front of the plant that's going to be collecting garbage from all over Kiev. A trip to Trinity. No, it's not the subway to the Trinity, it's the landfill we're given. No, not new bridges and resting places, that's a garbage disposal plant that will do everything that the city needs, but all the negatives for the environment will be given to the Trinity itself. You want to see what it's like? Smell what Kharkiv's breathing is like in Kiev right now, or look at the Lviv landfill. They want to do the same with us. So I promise that as long as I am a national MP, I will protect the Trinity from trying to pollute it and try to make the Trinity a big Kiev dump. The trinity should be given new cities for recreation and work, not landfills or garbage dumps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u147	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u148	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. You know, a respected Ukrainian society, because I'm most likely addressing you, because there aren't many national deputies left in the hall, the last two months we've been discussing stadium issues, analysis issues, debates, inaugural issues. But as a national MP elected from the Majority District, I want to say that the real problems of the people and the real issues that they address their national MP are completely far from the question of stadium, or analysis, or debate, or inaugural. These are absolutely real questions about their daily activity. And probably in the rating of these issues, the question of roads is one of the key. I'm sorry, I've had to go to the Ministry of Education for the fifth time from this rostrum to go to the Ministry of Education immediately to address the problem of roads within the area of Verkhovinski, Kosovsky and Snitinski. If I used to refer to the unsatisfying state of affairs as the road of national importance, I am now forced to turn from this rostrum, and I ask the presiding officer and the apparatus to form my appeal in the form of a parliamentary address, on the roads of local importance. Today, we have the end of May, and the local roads do not even begin to repair. The road to Kosmach is in terrible condition today. There is absolutely no technique on the road to Roznev-Cut, there is no repair work on the road to Jurov – Ilinz, Stetsev-Tuluków or Zabolotov-Rožnev. The road service ends in May, and the district administration does not even start the elementary roads for the moment. basic road repairs with the aim of restoring their ability to travel at least. And when I started to figure out what the reason is, it turns out that the state of affairs of this moment is a list of roads that are subject to the current, average and capital repair of roads of local importance, a state that is not in line with the Ukrainianador for reasons I don't understand. That's why, today, from this high rostrum as a national deputy representing the Verkhovinsky, Kosovsky and Snitinski districts, I turn to the leadership of the "Skratodore" to consider immediately the list of local roads that need to be repaired in the current and medium and capital-repaired areas, and to agree on this list of jobs, allowing road services to access these vital roads of local importance as a matter of urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u149	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u150	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, you know, today, listening to the speakers from this rostrum, and here many today were speaking: both the Prime Minister and the faction leaders of the former coalition, and it's so simple that we're seeing some new stage of politics. This is a promise: we cancel the immunity of the MP, the Presidential, the judiciary, means the new election law, which is appropriate there. decrease in the number of deputies. I mean, well, it's just the impression that for 4.5 years, when there was full power in this coalition, you couldn't have done it all, you couldn't have made all these decisions. And it's only now that there's been a number of months left of the work of this Supreme Council, all of a sudden, this kind of passion, this desire, finally, to start doing something. You know, I think it's only related to the upcoming elections, and it doesn't really matter very much there, it's going to be a few months early, it's due there in July or August, or it's going to be in October. We're ready, Freedom is ready for early elections, and we're not afraid of that at all, because we talked about the fact that there is no coalition as early as 2016. But really, in my opinion, it's not a key story, but a key story is whether this Parliament can still adopt the new Electoral Code, whether it can adopt new electoral legislation, so that the next election will take place under new rules. Not according to Yanukovic's rules, because we still live by the election law adopted in Yanukovic's time, but by a new law that will cancel the majority, which will cancel the closed lists, which will allow Ukrainians to choose over open lists and allow parliament to update, update parliamentaryism. It seems to me that this is a key task, and today, and this is the convening of Parliament, and I am addressing every national MP, to mention those promises that were made because they were. a paragraph, including in the Coalition Agreement signed by more than 300 — the constitutional majority of the national deputies — in the first quarter of 2015 they made a commitment to adopt new electoral legislation. But it's not done yet. And we need to adopt this law in order to really get the next election, they're giving a chance to make a real renewal of the political system -- that's the main task today. And that's also what the new president, Greensky, is going to do, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, and he's going to do it, The legitimacy he got in the election, use it to really make these real changes. Then we have a chance of actually updating Parliament and updating our political system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u151	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u152	I'd like to use the parliamentary rostrum to draw attention to the fate of Vitalia Burban, an activist from Kamyanec-Podilski Hmelnicke District. A person who is known to the inhabitants of his area by many painful acts. He helped Ukraine fight for independence on the front. He advocates the interests of local farmers when they seek land or property. He was here with us, on the street of Gruszewski, when we were doing an action of pressure to pass anti-corruption laws. And now he's in trouble himself: the local police are manufacturing a third case where Vitali is acting as a witness, but in fact, they're trying to pressure him, restricting his ability to protect people, to represent them, to stop the saviour. I want to contact the local police chiefs. Vitaly is a very worthy citizen, to be encouraged, to be protected, to be multiplied, not, by God’s borons, to try to trample or close. Of course, we want every citizen to be the first example of law enforcement, but I'm sure that Vitaliy and many other people in the Kamyanec-Podil region want the police to turn their energy and enthusiasm into bandits, real crooks, to those who are trampling on the law, not to those who oppose the will. Vitaly is vulnerable to our social organization's "Protection" initiative. We created it specifically after dozens of attacks on public activists, on principled people who advocate law and justice throughout the country. Thank God, nothing has happened to any of the defendants so far. We warn the local police, all the other people who have bad plans, not to go to Vitalia with reprisals. We'll get rid of it. And we're going to turn it off so it's not going to happen. All the laws, all the people's interests, we've always advocated. That's what's gonna happen this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u153	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u154	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians! Dear friends! The presidential election ended with their fierce opposition and campaign for candidates, and the country returned to its daily life. Sadly, though, the challenges and problems facing the people and the state have not disappeared. What's more, they're like a snow coma, like a snow avalanche, they're getting more and more. It's also a budget deficit in part of its filling. This is also a debt for utilities. It's that crazy Ukrainian outflow that's happening today. It is also a death that far exceeds birth. All these challenges stand like a damocle sword over an active government, over an active government, and require a solution not later than once, but today and now. When we're told that we have a difficult economic situation now, we have a difficult political situation now, Oleg Láska's Radical Party team says that with the politics of an active government, we can never wait for better times, so we need to solve people's problems today and now, as the Radical Party team does: we fight land raids, we defend people's rights to affordable medicine, we defend the interests of domestic business and industry, we stand in defense of science and education, and of course we fight for a strong and healthy, successful nation. All of this is done to overcome poverty, stop migration, restore our industry and industrial potential, bring people back to the village and give our children a future goal. On behalf of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, I spoke on many occasions from this rostrum and addressed the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the current government, the ministers, on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to renew the financing of the government programme for the granting of extended government loans to young families and single young citizens for reconstruction, construction and housing. They listened to me, agreed with me, but unfortunately, the chariot was there now. No copies of the 2019 government budget were allocated to this program. So on another occasion, I turn to government officials and remind them that they are responsible for everything that is happening in the state today. But there is still time to correct your mistakes. Therefore, the “Radical Party ” of Oleg Láška urges that the budget for the second half of this year be revised and that the state-owned long - term loan scheme be renewed for young families and single young citizens for construction (renovation) and housing. Not with slogans and friendly hugs should our youth support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u155	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u156	but to do everything to ensure that the Ukrainians do not seek a better fate abroad, but to see the future here in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u157	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u158	Dear Ukrainians, the centuries-old history of our nation knows a lot of good, and not very much the victory and the black pages. It's wars, it's famines, it's deportations of entire nations, it's shooting people who don't share the political views of the former system that no longer exists. Weekends are approaching, the most tragic weekends in terms of national memory: May 18th, 75th, the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people, and the 19th, the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Political Repression. At the National Bank of New York, which has been identified today, there are 371 thousand names. You know that there were different ways to honor the memory of the fallen. God took away the festivities. Sadly, though, God did not divert others from the celebrations on May 18. Do you know that tomorrow will be a celebration in Ukraine? Not honoring Crimean Tatars with the memory that 191 thousand Crimean Tatars were deported in 3 days, each other became dead, and we will die tomorrow, because Kuchma signed a decree in 2003 saying that every third Saturday of May we celebrate Europe’s Day. We are the only country in the world celebrating Europe Day -- not Europe, not Europe. Do you know when Europe is celebrating? May 9th. The famous Shuman directive: On May 9, the minister of foreign affairs of France gave a speech calling for unification in the European Union. In fact, what we have in Europe today is the European Union and unification, which is the realisation of its idea. Why don't we do that on May 9th? Why? How long has our Parliament been there? A month, maybe two days. But this is true, especially since my colleagues Kiskkar, Markevich, Petrenk, Halasyuk and I have registered a draft decree to add to the Labour Code 73 articles, through which, besides the celebration of the Day of Victory over Nazism, there is also the Day of Europe. Aren't we inhumans? How can we celebrate on the bone? How can one do so on a day of memory, well, by doing something that is completely different? I don't know if we can do this in these few days, but we have to drop the flags tomorrow, we have to remember tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u159	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u160	Rephat Chubarov, head of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, said today: We must find the time tomorrow to come to Midan, who has the opportunity, who does not, to remember and place a candle of memory for every innocent man. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u161	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u162	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, for the second time, I take the word in this empty hall, but first of all, I would like this scream of the soul, first of all, this is the appeal of the territorial community of the limestone community, the heads of the territorial community, the deputies, that today, again, I am repeating the already intoxicated, sixth of all, from this rostrum, these are the roads that are today: The limestone, High-Crižopil. Well, it's road T 0233 that's not what Groissman said today, he said right, he said it's time and only time to build roads. I confirm that, and that's true: time and only time. And I'm going to say that the government is doing a lot today. And today, in the 18th year, more roads have been built in Ukraine than in the history of our country's independence. But again, we're not talking about the road that's bad today, because these roads that we're building today, we're going to be able to take them for a year or two. But unfortunately, the limestone is high, this road T 0233, you can't just go there, it's not there at all. And I turn to the rostrum one more time. I understand the territorial community of limestone, which today can be said both in the village council sessions, and others solve these problems, and it never solves them without the state. And, you know, if you participate in road construction, you can, and they don't mind. And it's not against our High Village Council to participate, and there's a part to doing this in order to repair these roads, not to repair them, but to build them. There's nothing to fix. There's nothing to fix. In fact, it's impossible to fly and repair roads, as Groisman said today from this rostrum. But at the same time, you can build new ones. If you're building a 20-25 km road today that you can still drive, you could reduce the construction there by two kilometers and build a road from scratch. Because we're building it from scratch. There's more. Today the road that was built by the Romanians during the Great Homeland War. So I'd love to, I've been talking to Novak, Novak. I thought that, after all, he was a foreigner, he would do anything and help, and he would listen, and at least someone would come and look. I was talking to Kingchuck, chief of the highway service, from this rostrum, and I'm talking again. But come on, we'll find these 5 liters or 10 tanners, gasoline, so you can come and look at this road, which one. This is really the road of national importance. They go to Odessa, they go to Moldova and stuff. That's the thought of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u163	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u164	So, I think, after my seventh time, I'm going to get out of the Supreme Council rostrum at least one of these five minutes, and I'm going to look at these roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u165	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u166	Dear citizens of Ukraine, there are a huge number of us who use diesel fuel to water it in their cars. Either it's a Ukrainian railway that uses diesel the same way, or it's a Ukrainian army that also uses diesel. And few people even know that every second liter of diesel in Ukraine is actually the personal active cow of one person who, thanks to Peter Dustenk, has gotten such a high status. I'm talking about Victor Medvedchuck. It was thanks to Medvedchuk that all necessary transfer operations were developed to control the related key asset structures in the energy market, a diesel pipeline called Prikarpatzadrans. Every second liter gets in our car from there, no matter what gas station we use. Why did this happen? Why did this become possible in the days of Dust? Because he was an associate of Medvedchuk. Porcelain and Medvedchuk were partners. And we have a dependence on Russia today because we've given our fates to this tandem. What happens next. At the end of President Poshenko’s office, in March months, the Antimonopoly Committee, the subordinate powder, led by his Deputy Chief of the President’s Administration, issues permission for Medvedchuk’s structure to transform this property into third parties so that it does not become a subject of re-examination, reprivatization, and so on. And the Antimonopoly Committee, without blinking its eyes, issues such a permit. And then the next day, after permission is granted, she asks the Security and Defence Council: and sometimes there's no Russian trace on all of this, doesn't this new Russian structure have any effect on the Ukrainian economy? And so on and so forth. That's what I got in my answer. The answer that was sent to me from the Security and Defence Council. So first they give permission, then they ask. Next comes the stretching of this whole story. And now the Antimonopoly Committee is asking if there were any connections. But that's it, the train's gone. They specifically designed this to give a specific asset to specific people. And what I'm going to say is that earlier, the same Belarusian structure that Putin's godfather formed is property, so this particular BSO company was clearly defined as Russia. And today, with the efforts of the previous President, we have a new monopoly. Because 40 percent of the market is already a monopoly that is covered by the Antimonopoly Committee, which is controlled by Dusty, but which goes into the pockets of every citizen of Ukraine. Because we all use diesel fuel in our everyday lives. And all of this now is an inheritance that Zelenski will receive as President, with which he will continue to live in office.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u167	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u168	And he's got to figure it out. It can't be normal that our economy is dependent on the godfather Putin. Just as it can't depend on Ahmutov, who controls the entire heat generation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u169	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u170	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm asking Ukrainian citizens to give you an answer. Today, there was a statement by our colleagues at the People's Front Parliament that they were coming out of the coalition because they believed that the main mission and the function of the coalition had been carried out and that they were proposing to reformat and create a new coalition. So, Ukrainian citizens, I have to tell you that there are now 10 deputies in this room. Is it that we, in our tens, have to form a coalition to help a government where three years of being a health minister can't find a candidate? I've been listening to these brats today, and I feel like we're back in 2014, and we're talking about inviolability again. And what prevented the European Ukraine coalition from resolving this issue in five years of parliamentary immunity? We're talking about an electoral system that needs to be changed. Why didn't they change it? I'll tell you why they didn't. You know, if you'll excuse my rudeness, because the five years and the coalition have drained the budget. In order to vote for this budget, they gave money to the districts. It was a hidden form of bribe. And now that the time has come, now, you see, let's change the system there because we fed our districts. Just before me was my colleague Sergei Leschchenko, whom I have long known, I respect his position. I may not agree with him at all. He says, "They gave away the monopoly." No, my friends, you didn't give up the monopoly, you gave the President the Ukraine he ran, and the people that you voted for, and who were in the positions of ministers that today are in the regions. And today we say, "Is there a coalition or not? Is the Kabin going to work or not?" And nobody in the room wants to talk about people's problems. Why did three-fourths of Ukrainian citizens say no to the current authority? Anyone, just not this active authority. And today the question should not be about creating a new coalition, whether there is legal law or not. We all applauded Tomosa, which means we're all believers. And as believing people, do we have the moral right to sit here in Parliament today? We've exhausted ourselves. You know, we could've gotten into history if we'd let ourselves go and set foot on new policies. People want not so much change, people want protection, protection from that power. That is why there is no future in this Parliament. And what a statement was made about creating a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u171	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u172	about creating a new coalition, it's just an attempt to get in, sit in that room, and the other one in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's a disgrace to Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u173	Thank you. We have the last statement of those who took part in the record, but there is one MP who has not been able to participate in the record. And because we do. Two deputies, I'm sorry. National Deputy Sauka and National Deputy Levchenko If there's no objection because we have time, colleagues, can we give them a chance to speak? We can. Okay. Please, National Deputy Kishkar. Rules - 6 minutes. Oh, People's Deputy Krivenko. He was given the word Kishkar. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u174	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Indeed, tomorrow is a very sad day. 75 years ago, three days ago, 191 thousand Crimean Tatars were loaded into trains and in inhuman conditions -- they were commercial trains, they were trains for the transport of cattle -- in inhumane conditions deported to Russia. It's a terrible crime. And there are dozens and hundreds of such crimes in the Russian, Soviet empire. Tomorrow I urge everyone to join in honoring the memory of the victims, the memory of the repressed. And I want to say that the People's Movement of Ukraine has always supported the Crimean Tatar people. As soon as the return to their homeland began, in Crimea, from the first days the motorists helped, the motorists helped to adopt the legislative base. I am glad that we have been with and many others are one - partyers. For example, Mustafa Dzemilev joined the lions of the Movement in 98. Our Kurultai-Ruh faction in the Supreme Council of Crimea is the only one who did not betray the Ukrainian people in the 14th year of the occupation. And I want to say that the only candidate for the Presidents in these elections was the presidential candidate for the People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Krivenko, who wrote in the program the position on Crimean Tatar national autonomy. On Monday, there will be the inauguration of the new President, and I would like to encourage him to see, if possible on Tuesday, new texts of his legislative initiatives: what he proposes to do in the energy field, including tariffs; what he proposes to do in the economic sphere; what his initiatives to develop our production, to protect domestic producers, how he will support and what initiatives he will make; his vision of electoral reform. We have the Electoral Codex, which is voted in the first reading. If there is political will and if the political factions call back their amendments, often designed, I remind you, there are over 4,000 of them, we can adopt new electoral legislation in two weeks. I want to say that it is very important for the President to show his position with regard to the Attorney-General: whether the procurator-General has reached an agreement as to how the auditoriums of the Supreme Council are spreading, whether there is any hope of re-launching, is the hope of justice. The National Movement of Ukraine is directly interested in justice and in the effective work of the Attorney General’s Office. Odessa is two attacks to kill motorists. Mikhailo Kulawis, head of a city organization whose truck drove away. And Alina Radchenko, my assistant, whose head was smashed with a trumpet. 15 criminal cases against criminal local authorities - and no response from the law enforcement system. A year ago, Truhanov's city head hid abroad for two months on a statement I signed (thank you to more than 30 fellow parliamentarians who also supported it) in the Krayan factory case. Zero response. We see that the courts don't work, we see the misunderstandings of the SAP. Irpine is an attack on a motorist, our young motorist, Artem, against a scandalous blockade. We see the total inaction of the prosecutor's office in dozens of criminal cases that have been violated since the scandalous deforestation of the forest. Just think about it: Two thousand children didn't go to gardens and schools because they're not there, because the city is being built, the population is growing, the social infrastructure is not being built. Yet, there are many questions. And it is important for us to see the position of the new President. It's important to us that today is actually the legal dissolution of the coalition. And I hope there's a chance that we can resign the government of Ukraine, which somehow allowed ourselves to be called the government of Groysman. And most cynically, I've repeatedly talked about the abuse of the holdingocadastres in subsidies to agrarian producers. Today, Mr. Sporish spoke about this when two agroholdings received all the grants and little farmers received nothing. And we don't have owners in every village. We have one or two oligarchs in the capital and in the district centers, and everyone else in the village is hired. And until there's no boss in the village, there's no host, there's no good life, he won't care about all the infrastructure that's needed for a normal life, so that young people don't leave. A bunch of complaints from the State Department: the woods are still being cut down. Customs: The same woods are smuggled out, and everything is back. But the top of cynicism is the information that has been published by the Czech movement, which, for its advertising, the acting prime minister has paid off our money. Where the word "decentralisation" was written, and at the bottom, "Grysman's government," it was actually an ad by an active prime minister. And we see this strategy going into his plan to go to the next election. And I'm not going to predict it, but I might be able to make a technical government with clear technical goals. Because still six months to work is a 6-month chance for the Ukrainian Parliament to do something better for the people. And so I urge that the negotiations begin after the creation of a new coalition. We should not allow another six months to rule the government that is headed by Mr. Groissman; he almost destroyed my native field of space. Last night, unfortunately, a two-pronged bill was broken that would destroy the state monopoly and start private investment, private business in this sector. But I hope we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u175	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u176	And we see more people shouting "The Cloud," which unfortunately there will be no temporary elections. We need to calm down: there will be no temporary elections and everything will be within the framework of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u177	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National MP, Savka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u178	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! During the current week, many bills have been passed that are necessary for our country of Ukraine and that are called historic bills. The most important bills are about protecting our territorial integrity in Ukraine. These bills relating to the Ukrainian Armed Forces were unfortunately not approved by our Parliament at this time. When the sixth year comes to war with Moscow aggression, where the occupations of Moscow are doing their best to break up our country of Ukraine, to detail our country of Ukraine into pieces, so that as a map, our nation, as such, can be wiped out, we must not allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you once again, today the People's Front has made a strong statement regarding the dissolution of the coalition. And in addition, the People's Front has made a strong statement and addressed every faction, party and group leader in order to cohesively renew the coalition and adopt these bills that are necessary for our, above all, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, for our Ukrainian citizens, and we need to know that. And we must do everything we can to ensure that these bills are adopted, first and foremost, to protect our territorial integrity of the State of Ukraine. Today, due to the nearness of my time, I was unable to ask a question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. But when it comes to the feeding of military personnel, and the officer's warehouse is the elite of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, yes, the feeding of officers in fixed dining rooms, places of permanent deployment where they have to be consistent with their subordinates, seniors, sergeants and soldiers, to take hot food, and at least once a day, at lunchtime. I have repeatedly raised this question and asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine this question. It's only in your personal decisions, Mr. Prime Minister. In addition, many questions arise regarding the construction of military towns where they are needed. It's a military part like A-0987, where it takes some funds to set up and make sure that the military personnel don't care about anything, so they don't look for funds, but they know one thing that there are certain funds allocated to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, is allocated to the military, and the commander of the military unit should know that by that time, by that time, all the military towns, all the buildings will be repaired.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u179	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u180	and the special warehouse will be provided with all necessary supplies. So, Your Honor, once again, I appeal to you, distinguished deputies of our Ukraine, let us gather together, do everything we can to make it happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u181	Thank you. And I invite you to the final address of the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u182	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Over the years, and especially over the last few weeks, we've been hearing statements from various national deputies, various factions about how MPs don't stick to their own chair. About how all the deputies are ready to go to the next election, which, please, we're not afraid of letting go and so on and so on and so forth. But today, from this rostrum, actually, there was a completely different thing, a completely different thought that clearly points to what, in particular, I haven't once said that unfortunately, this oligarchy Supreme Council is afraid to go to elections, afraid to face responsibility and to the Ukrainian people. When one of the oligarchic factions claimed that it was coming out of the coalition, it was said that the newly elected President could not dissolve this Supreme Council of Ukraine. But there is one "but": you can't get out of what you didn't. We can't get out of what didn't happen. And the point is, if we open the Constitution of Ukraine and not discuss any fantasies there, the Constitution of Ukraine clearly states that this is a coalition of MP factions. I'm addressing all of our constituents now: open the Constitution, search, and you'll notice that in the Constitution the word "coalition" is never mentioned without the word "deputy factions," only by such a term of association is always mentioned in the Constitution. This is consistent with the fact that the two MP factions that were left in the coalition in 2016, as soon as they lost 226 votes, as soon as the two MP factions received less than 226 votes, the coalition ceased to exist, and that's when it ceased to exist, not today. And there was no need for any statements from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because, again, the Constitution of Ukraine does not require such statements. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules the word "coalition" is never mentioned, we have a coalition mentioned exclusively in the Constitution, and once two factions had less than 226, the coalition lost its validity and it ceased to exist. So the newly elected president can dissolve the Supreme Council by June 16, which is the question: How should he do it, and should he do it? I'm convinced that this Supreme Council needs to be disbanded in the 15th year, because I've seen that it's not good for the Ukrainian people. I was talking about it in 16th, 17th and 18th years. Now I also think that it needs to be dissolved, but we have to try to do one thing. And I'm going to go to the new president from this rostrum, and I'm going to put this majority and this council's ultimatum right in the inaugural speech, right in the inaugural speech, you have to say, either open lists, or let go. This Supreme Council has two more plenary weeks until June 16, until the last date when it can be dissolved, and the newly elected President has to say: vote for those two plenary weeks of open lists -- and then I won't release you; you won't vote -- I'll let you go. It's the only chance. It's not a guarantee, but it's the only chance to get anything out of this criminal oligarchic majority, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u183	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u184	At least change the electoral system to at least get a chance for a better next parliament. There is no other benefit from this Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-17-m0.u185	Thank you. We've finished our work at the Vulnerable. I would like to remind both fellow MPs and Ukrainian citizens that, according to a decision adopted by Parliament, there will be a 10 o'clock ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the signing of an oath by the newly elected President of Ukraine. I also remind you that the following week the national deputies will be working on committees, commissions and factions, and the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will be held on Tuesday, May 28, 2019, at 10 a.m. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
