ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Good morning again, dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies are requested to prepare for registration. Please be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:05:01]] 379 Ukrainian national deputies registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our work. Opening the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, statements, messages. People's deputies would like to sign up for the speech. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u3	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u4	Victoria Sumar, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, I would like to recall the events of a five - year - old or even six - year - old age when the mid - class came out in Mayan in the middle of 2013. And they protested two fundamental things: the collapse of the Euro-Atlantic course by then President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine, the return of Ukraine to the Russian sphere of influence and protested against the usurpation of power by President Janukovic. What do we see today? To be honest, we are very concerned about the processes that are taking place in the sphere of European integration, especially Euro-Atlantic integration. Those statements we heard yesterday from the vice-premier of European integration that concern Ukraine's not going to insist on receiving the NATO Membership Action Plan, that means a certain degree of convergence of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic integration. And we're also seeing indirect signals of this folding. You know, there are signals that NATO instructors are already withdrawing from the delimitation zone. NATO for Ukraine is not just a security block, it's not just some, you know, long-term perspective, NATO for Ukraine is the only way to guarantee security for every Ukrainian in opposition and war with Ukraine's nuclear neighbour and an aggressor who annexed part of Ukrainian territory that occupied Ukrainian territories in the eastern part of the country, the Russian Federation. And if we move away from working with NATO today, and if we refuse to receive VAT, it will mean that Ukraine is ready to go back to the sphere of influence of Russia. The second aspect I was talking about is usurpation. Over the last five years, we've been creating a system of restraints and opposites. On every chain in the system of government, in the system of force organs, all of these reforms, they were really aligned with both the European Union and NATO, and with our international partners. Today, this system is collapsing. And worst of all, the system of parliamentaryism is being destroyed today. And you know why it's important? Because Parliament is not a simple, well, way of legalizing laws that have been put down, Parliament is an independent branch of power that has to guarantee democracy in Ukraine, and only democracy can protect human rights. I would like to say today that we saw things yesterday that were unacceptable in a democratic parliament. Sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u6	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u7	30 seconds. Mr. Head, I would like to remind you that you are the Head of the entire Supreme Council, not the representative of some political power here, and that it is unacceptable to exclude microphones from the representatives of a faction. I want to remind the MPs that in fact the task of the MP is not to push the buttons, but to draft legislation, and to limit the right of the legislative initiative of the national MP is to limit democracy. If we allow the destruction of parliamentaryism today, they will come by tomorrow. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u8	Victoria Petrovna, since you mentioned me, I would still like to take the right to a replica. Indeed, the Head of the Supreme Council is the Head of the entire Supreme Council. And I find it unacceptable to make statements that cannot be made in the Supreme Council in relation to any Ukrainian national deputy, regardless of which faction or party he belongs to or belongs to. That's it. I did it again, I talked about it yesterday, and I'm going to do it again today. If we're talking about democracy, democracy is equal rights for everyone and equal laws, and the enforcement of those laws for everyone. As for the Rules, I say once again, their chapter in article 51, part four: "If a national MP speaks abusively, and yesterday, in my personal opinion, and I think that most of the hall will agree with me, it was precisely such a statement from one of the Ukrainian national MPs, to the address of another national MP or MP, a parliamentary group, who presided at the plenary, warns this national MP of the inadmissibility of such statements or stops his speech." So yesterday, I moved exclusively within the framework of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and I think that all the national MPs in the rest of the world will also use this law. Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u9	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Distinguished Audiences! Of course, in the first steps of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the future government is being followed very carefully, the future -- I mean, potentially strong, successful, as everyone would like, citizens are being followed very carefully. And today, of course, fulfillment and election promises are required, but above all, they require the execution of social programs, guarantees, and obligations that the state has before each Ukrainian. Today, I would like to highlight one point that has to do with the social protection of a fairly large part of our society -- about two million Ukrainians today have the status of citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. Believe me, I'm also addressing committee leaders. Yesterday we discussed how important it would be in terms of work and the Committee on Social Policy and Health and Ecology and Environment, among other things, from which the moment associated with Chernobyl had been removed. So taking into account all of these issues, which today have a huge set of unresolved problems, both financial and moral, before, once again, I emphasize a huge number of people. Today, before the Office of the President, representatives of public organizations gathered, taking care of them. From what I have heard, there are even expressions of starvation. So the active position of the public organizations, they're not satisfied that there was no draft law in the list of drafts to be considered at this session that dealt with this complex of Chernobyl issues. This, I want to emphasize, applies to a large number of children who have that status. It's the feeding of children living in the third, second zone, it's the treatment of those people who have an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear station. So I now urge everyone who depends on the solution to this question to concentrate. We had a small, unfortunately, MP group in the past. Seven deputies formed the Chernobyl Association of People’s Deputies, which took care of the subject. I invite my colleagues to join us now so that there can be such a powerful organization. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u10	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u11	And so that we can work together to solve this very important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u12	Thank you. This is Zabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u13	I want to pass on the word to Solomia Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u14	Samantha Bobrowski is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u15	Good morning, everyone! I understand that we are all so set up by work, already by legislation in the Council, but there are some of the issues that remain in the society of our civil society colleagues and some of you have come out of this sector. In particular, I am talking about a series of attacks, the so - called Hansuk list, which consists of some 55 attacks on activists, five of which, unfortunately, ended in death. In this regard, thanks to the part of the deputies who were part of the interim eight - call investigation commission last year, and still have tried more or less to assist in investigating the law enforcement agencies, I think it is necessary in this call to repeat this activity and to create a TSC regarding attacks on our friends, colleagues and those who are actually struggling to make this voice of truth heard today. I'll remind you who doesn't. [[Applause]] I'll remind you who doesn't know that 15 out of 55 were actually using firearms, cold weapons, especially those mentioned yesterday, for us, many of us, comrade and friend Sergio Sternenka. During 2017-2018, however, there were three attacks, attacks on his life, and, in fact, none of the attackers, nor of the customers, were brought to account, almost unheard of. In addition, those who have carried out this commission are now abroad, in fact, without any history of attraction to responsibility. So my proposal today will go to all the factions' heads, to make your proposals for the TSC's composition on the Hansuk list, and, nevertheless, to move the matter out of the way by working together. Because at a time when we call for public activists to be active, we have to provide them with both security and respect. So I will be grateful for the support and real work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u16	Thank you. The word is given to Scorch Mikoli Leonidovich, the faction of "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u17	People's MP Skorik, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Dear citizens of Ukraine! In my previous vocation, I went out on this subject on a number of occasions on the Supreme Council rostrum, and unfortunately, the previous majority never listened to the suggestions on this issue. I mean, we have repeatedly, me and my colleagues, proposed in a previous call to create a real commission, a temporary commission of inquiry into the events of May 2, 2014 in Odessa. It has been nearly five and a half years since this tragedy, but no one has been punished by this tragedy. On the contrary, we have an example of people taking an active part in these events continuing to violate the law in both Odessa and Kiev and other cities of our nation. We've changed power, the majority has changed, I see a lot of new faces in this session room, and I'd really like this new authority to do a little bit differently than the previous one. If we're talking about civil reconciliation, we have to come to him solely because those people who were responsible for the resonance events of the 14th year are responsible. I mean the events in Maidan, and the events in Odessa, and the resonance killings of both Buzana and Sheremet, and so on, and the people who killed the National Guards under the Supreme Council building. None of these events have been investigated. Dear colleagues, our political force "The Opposition Platform for Life" has prepared an appropriate draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry. I am turning from this rostrum to all the political forces, to the national deputies of non-fractionals to join this temporary commission of inquiry. I believe that this will be a very serious meeting place for world society as well, and the events in Odessa on May 2 were considered both by the United Nations and the Council of Europe and by other influential world organizations. This is going to be a very serious messaging for Ukrainian society, for all the people that. To this day, the new authority is for a new authority. The main thing is the law, the main thing is man, the main thing is his rights. I look forward to your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u18	Thank you. Murmich Anatoly Petrovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u19	Please give the floor to Deputy Kacny.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u20	Ducky, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u21	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today, I wanted to draw your attention to the consequences of the laws adopted yesterday regarding entrepreneurs. And that's what microbusiness is all about. Unfortunately, there was no consultation with these people, with associations that unite small and medium-sized businesses, on these bills. What's going on? These laws were supposed to lead businesses out of the shadows, and in fact those higher taxes that are now imposed on small businesses are not allowing them to work today, as you said yesterday, "white." They said these bills were being submitted to protect the white business. You think big business today is white, and those who work in microbusiness today are "cheese" or "black". On the contrary, today we are taking away the opportunity to work in the tax system that allows them today to feed their family and to provide little or no development opportunities. Today I am approached by many entrepreneurs who say that they will be forced to go to Poland, to open up their business there, and to work in other countries. About 70,000 billings are needed by one entrepreneur to join the new RRO rules -- that's an accountant, that's both printers and that's another -- they've made a full calculation. So, dear colleagues, I would like you to pay attention to the consequences of these laws, and at the time of the adoption of Law 1210, which also increases fines many times, and today, the situation that will be adopted with so-called whistleblowers allows many apherists today to do everything possible to blackmail an entrepreneur with a check that will be planned to make or an honest or dishonest check. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that these are many thousands of families, many thousands of people today who expect the right decisions from us. We talked about taking down tax pressure, in fact, we're doing everything to make the entrepreneur feel less secure in this country today than before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u22	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomy Anatolyevna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u23	I give the word to Vakarczuk Svetoslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u24	Slavlav Ivanovich Vakarczuk, faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u25	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, Your Honor! You know, as I mentioned yesterday, the Supreme Council is shaping the principles of internal and external politics. The President and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do so. For many weeks the work of the new President has been under way in international negotiations, hostage exchange is taking place, and other important things are happening. But we never heard the strategy of the new executive power for our international policy and, above all, our relationship with the Russian Federation with the aggressor country. That's why we're calling for a special session, a closed session of the PIC committee to invite the vice-premier on European integration issues, to invite the foreign minister, to invite the representative of the President's Office to take care of these issues, as well as all the members of the PARIA delegation who have been delegated by the factions, to discuss these issues, to form a common position and finally to answer many questions of particular concern to us today. Are we forming, or are we not forming, a delegation to Paris, or are we participating in the next session? If we do, how we act, how we coordinate with colleagues from other countries who have supported us in the past session, who expect clear answers and clear declarations and commitments from us. It is also very important to understand before a potential meeting in the "normal" format, which is Ukraine's strategy there, that, to whom and how we promised, how politics will change in relation to that policy that was formerly in power, and if it does not change, what are the new approaches. And if the President calls the meeting a breakthrough, what is the breakthrough, and what compromises should we make? The Supreme Council is part of a team that forms the principles of foreign policy, and together, I emphasize, only together can we make balanced strategic decisions that will move the country forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u26	Thank you, Svoslav Ivanovich. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity. Sophia Fedina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u27	Dear Ukraine, today from the rostrum I have to talk about things that the President of Ukraine and every parliamentarian should be calling out to the world, but rather, there is a proud silence. On September 8, there was another election in the local authorities of the Moscow Federation in the occupied Crimea. I would like to remind you that the Moscow Federation uses every election to legitimize its presence in occupied areas and to show the loyalty of the population, particularly in this case of Crimean and Crimean Tatars. These elections condemned the civilized nations of the world, led by the European Union, the United States, which at the same time confirmed the support of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. But in the context of elections, we also have to talk about a few very important nuances. The first is that these so-called illegal elections in Crimea violate the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, while at the same time the fundamental norms of international law, starting with the Charter of the United Nations, the Geneva Convention, the Helsinki Final Act and many other resolutions. I understand that you are not interested, but with respect to Crimea, please listen. It's also a very important moment that we have an unprecedented situation in these elections, when the showdown was only 33 percent -- that's twice as much as it was in those elections in 2014, and we can view these elections as a demonstration of protest sentiments in Crimea. And in this context, it's important that we want to join the North Atlantic Alliance, because that will guarantee the security of the state. The third important point is that in recent times, in all of the negotiations, Crimea has somehow been put on the sidelines and many of the negotiations on Crimea are simply not even mentioned. And we demand that Crimea be placed in every position, because the fight for Crimea is the fight for Ukraine. Crime unites the Ukrainian state in its struggle. And we demand the full restoration of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. But in this context, I'm going to highlight another terrible event that happened yesterday that threatens the security of the Ukrainian state. Czech President Milos Zeman accepted the World Council of Russian Undercarpathians delegation, and they discussed the greater autonomy of Ukrainian Carpathians. This organization has direct contacts with the Moscow Federation, which uses this organization to destabilize the situation in western Ukraine. And I'm asking the Ukrainian Security Service, the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to do everything possible to prevent separatist sentiments in western Ukraine. And finally. Six soldiers were wounded that night. Isn't that a good truce? I'll remind you that you give Putin's hand, he'll bite his head off. So no, the aggressor's actions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u28	Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u29	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, honourable Ukrainians, today I would like to talk about the essence of parliamentaryism. On August 1, 1991, the president of the United States, George Bush, spoke on this rostrum, in the Parliament of the U.S. This speech came under the title "Kyivsky Cauldron." Three weeks later, the Ukrainian Parliament decided on the Ukrainian State Independence Act, and on December 1, 92 percent of Ukrainians voted in favour of an independent Ukraine. In 2004, the Ukrainian Parliament decided on a political crisis during the dramatic period of the Orange Revolution. In 2014, the Ukrainian Parliament, when Maydan was on fire, showed that there was parliamentaryism in Ukraine and remained the only legitimate body in the Ukrainian State at that time. Parliamentarianism is actually what Ukrainian statehood is based on. And so when we talk to you today about very fast changes, we, as Fatherland, support very fast changes. But so that we do not throw out and destroy parliamentaryism in Ukraine with these rapid changes. We have a few bills that apply to changes to the Rules. And I call on the presidency of the Supreme Council, and I urge all factions to assemble a task force and talk seriously about it. Because when the Ukrainian People's Deputy essentially has any rights in this sessional room, even to make an amendment to the bill, which is being considered, when Parliament turns into buttons, then at the crucial moment in the history of Ukraine, and it can happen, there will be no one to defend the Ukrainian state. So the question of protecting the status of the National MP, of everyone sitting here with the newly elected National Deputies, is our task with you. Yes, laws must be passed. But they must be accepted according to the Rules. Yes, there is no need for spam. But a national MP should have the right to speak out of the rostrum, to defend his law, to protect his amendments, and to be able to explain to the Ukrainian people why a law is harmful to the State. That's what parliamentaryism is all about. Our control function has to be saved. And regardless of whether a deputy in power or a deputy in opposition, he remains a representative of the Ukrainian people with all the powers vested in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. That's why, as the Fatherland faction, we claim to stand in the defense of parliamentaryism, we will defend the rights of the people's deputies. And we believe that we are obliged to make complex changes to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u30	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u31	complex changes to the Supreme Council Rules. To ensure that all rights and powers and minorities are fully preserved by the Law of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u33	Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Sir, dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I'd like to sound one of the most painful problems that exists in the country today on an on-line basis is the problem of our roads. This question has been raised repeatedly in the past call. Some things have been done. But there are still many problems. Parliament will soon enter into the budgetary process, and this issue is very relevant. If the roads of international and regional importance are more or less repaired, the roads of local importance, the roads of territorial importance, are in terrible shape. And if we don't pay proper attention to that question, we're just going to lose them and we're going to close them down, which we're already doing right now. I would like to remind you that our roads are financed by a road fund that is filled by excise duty on fuel produced and imported, but only 35 percent of the entire fund is going to finance roads of local importance. For example. For example, I take the Poltavsk region, and we have 8,000 kilometers of roads. For 2019, 800 million dollars were funded. At this cost, minimal technology can be used to make 150 kilometers of roads and 8,000 roads. What to do with this situation is that no one knows. These numbers tell us that we lose more each year than we build. The budgetary process is now starting, I think, and it's very important to give proper attention to funding right now on the roads of local importance in order to bring them to an absolutely normal state. My fellow majors and I have a lot of work to do since the last call, and we will definitely join the budget process, and we will be making proposals for the 2020 budget code. But what I would like is for Kabmin, especially Minfin, and the Ministry of Infrastructure to take control of this issue and think about a clear mechanism to increase the filling of the road fund and to fund the roads of local importance. Therefore, I ask you to consider my request to Prime Minister Alexia Honcharuk of Ukraine to take this matter under personal control and to give due attention to the financing of roads of local importance in the future for 2020. Because if we don't, we're going to lose our roads in the next few years and we're going to have huge, huge problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u34	Thank you. Showtime's up. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. In accordance with article 23 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a proposal is made for the inclusion in the agenda of the second session of the draft Law (Registration No. 1046). Is there a need for discussion? If not, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the draft Law registration number 1046 on the concession. Please support and vote. [[10:38:00]] For 272 Thank you. Decision taken. 272 versus 0, hold on to 33. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first question is. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government and penalties for obtaining such assets. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:38:47]] For 249 Thank you. Decision taken. For 249, versus 27, holding 41. Let's move on to the question. Rapporteur – Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u35	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenski, in line with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, brought to the attention the Supreme Council of Ukraine and defined as an immediate bill of amendment to some Ukrainian legislation on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government and penalties for the acquisition of such assets. What's in this bill under number 1031? This is about a few key points. The first key thing I'd like to pay attention to is that I'd like to listen to you. The point is that from the Criminal Code of Ukraine, by a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, an unconstitutional position on illicit wealth, which has little margin of criticism, I mean the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and as a result, very many criminal conducts have been halted for illegal enrichment. The point is that officials of public authorities, local self - government authorities, who have assets that, many times, are hundreds of thousands of times more than their legal income, are now legally able to declare them, including by electronic declaration. Because there is no negative legal effect on the acquisition of such assets. That's why this bill is called upon to ensure that those guilty persons who have illegally acquired assets in property that act as public authorities or local government authorities are drawn to criminal responsibility. The point is that the cost of such assets is 15 or more thousand times higher than the untaxed minimum income of citizens. It is also envisaged that, because of the decision in civil and procedural order, illegal assets will be collected in the revenue of the State following the calls of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and in cases provided for by law, as decided by the Attorney-General's Office when it comes to illegal assets for the employees of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. So in this case, it's about getting high crews.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u36	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u37	The owners of public authorities, who, using their official position, acquire assets, criminally, effectively, have legal responsibility in terms of criminal liability and civil and legal responsibility. That is, that these assets in civil law, even before the sentencing of the court, under the special procedure provided for in the Civil Code, the Civil Procedure Code, should be excluded from the State's income. So I propose to support on the basis of this bill as a whole and to return the constitutional, criminal, civil and legal regulation that the Ukrainian people long await. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u38	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The alternative bill 1031-1, Iris Irina Vasilovna, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, the bill of registration number 1031-1 has been submitted to you by our faction. It refers to what we propose, as decided by the Constitutional Court, that article 368-2 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be deleted in a way that is not in force and that is contrary to existing legislation. At the same time, we suggest that article 368-5 be edited as such. "To supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine with a new article recognizing the criminal punishment of acquisition by a person authorized to perform a function of state or local self-government, including indirectly, assets, as well as a reduction in its financial obligations, which exceed the incomes of such a person lawfully received, more than one thousand untaxed minimums of citizens." Above the proposed edition, it should be noted that a large circle of experts and public figures worked. In particular, representatives of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service, the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the NAB, the National Police, the DBD, representatives of the U.S. embassies, the EU in Ukraine, the IMF Representation in Ukraine, the World Bank in Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova, the European Union Advisory Mission, the EU Anti-Corruption Initiative in Ukraine. I want to point out that we are proposing an article that is more balanced and more professionally written, and we ask for our own bill to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u40	Thank you. The alternative bill 1031-2 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Ustinov Aleksandra Jurijovna is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, when it comes to alternative bills, there is only one difference: the sum, the threshold, which is set when the official is still criminally responsible, not just the confiscation of property. What's proposed is a bill that we're currently considering and that Mr. Venislavski just spoke about. It's suggested that up to 15 million dollars, 14.5, if you're right, all you've got is the maximum they can confiscate. No one can plant you. If you talk about such a threshold, I can call you at least the names of the two national deputies who are sitting in this room and who will not be criminally liable, even though we voted in favour of removing the parliamentary immunity because they will not be subject to the sum of this property, and the cases against them for their illegal enrichment were revealed to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. I looked at all the cases of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, 65 of them under the article "Illicit Enrichment." Of these, only 15 fall under the threshold, under the amount that we are now offered to vote on. All the other people would automatically get, excuse me, amnesty. Because, yes, maybe they would have taken the apartment, maybe they would have taken the car, but no one would take the cash that they keep, and then after the release, they would go and buy a few more apartments and cars. Excuse me, please, this cannot be called criminalization of illicit wealth, it can be called an amnesty of corrupts, when we now raise the threshold so high that we cannot bring these people to justice. Our bill suggests that we lower this threshold to 3,000 untaxed minimums or about 3 million dollars. Three million dollars is the order of $100-120,000. It's a good elite car, it's an apartment in Kiev, it can not only be confiscated, and then you can draw a person to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u42	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u43	We all recently saw films published by the National Anticorruption Bureau, and we heard the head of the Kyiv District Administration, Paul Wolfe, say a lot about them. So let me tell you, he's got a case for illegal enrichment by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. On that threshold that we are now asked to vote, he would not be brought to criminal responsibility as he is, for example, the head of the National Police, Sergey Princes. So the Voice faction supports the return of the criminalization of illicit wealth. But I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u44	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u45	Lowering the threshold is because 15 million is an amnesty. We will support in the first reading, but in the committee we still require compromise and lower the threshold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u46	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Krasnosilska Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to comment on the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u47	Good morning, madame! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy reviewed Bills 1031, 1031-1 and 1031-2 and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt Bill 1031 as a whole. This is a bill that returns criminal responsibility for illicit wealth and introduces a tool for the so-called civil confiscation of unwarranted high-equity assets. Why is this bill necessary? After the Constitutional Court's decision, we lost the opportunity to return at least 500 million dollars to Ukraine's budget, and that's just a sum for those cases that have already been investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Every day, when illicit wealth is not a crime, even at this particular moment, an official enjoys property purchased for money stolen from the Ukrainians and is completely unpunished. There is no excuse for such a situation, and we certainly have a criminal responsibility for illegal enrichment and a tool for civil confiscation. This is our commitment to the UN Convention against Corruption, our commitment to the International Monetary Fund. I would also like, colleagues, to dispel some myths about the instrument of civil confiscation of unwarranted high-owner assets. First. It's an instrument recognized by the world. It works in Britain, it works in the United States, it works in Georgia, Switzerland, it can continue. Second, my friends. This tool will be applied exclusively in court. Only the National Anti-Corruption Fight, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office and the Higher Anti-Corruption Court use this tool as an additional security. No corrupt old unreformed organs or abuse will be necessary. Next up, colleagues. The law enforcement authority itself will have to prove the illegal assets of the official. A violation of the presumption of innocence, which is in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u48	Let me finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u49	There is no such thing as a violation of the presumption of innocence. Finally, colleagues, such a tool is recognized by the European Court of Human Rights as one that corresponds to the European Convention on Human Rights. This is a decision of the European Court of Justice "Gogitide v. Georgia" in 2015. There is no reason not to implement this tool. Accordingly, we ask very much for the support of Bill 1031. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Pavluk Maxim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u51	Good morning! Please pass the word to Galina Yanchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u52	Galini Igorovni Yanchenko, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u53	Good day to you all! So let's remember what we're talking about when we're talking about illegal wealth. It's about getting the wrong kind of benefit from the service person on a large scale, which is that some person we first trusted to represent our interests, manage our resources, and so on, abuse our trust and steal from us, with you, with taxpayers, with money. This is one of the main manifestations of corruption in general. It is thanks to the illegal enrichment that a large number of high - income workers have benefited from high wealth, have not been held accountable, and today you and I have the opportunity to restore this justice at last. The Constitutional Court’s decision, adopted in February 2019, has already been noted. I would like to tell you a little bit more about this constitutional application. In February, according to the National Deputies, half of whom voted in the same room in 2015 for illegal enrichment, the Constitutional Court annulled this rule. So today I'm addressing all the national MPs, first of all, to support this norm, to support the return of this standard, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, also to show. Not putting political relevance above the challenge of overcoming such a shameful phenomenon in Ukraine as corruption. At the end of the day, he wanted to say that this bill, which is being submitted today as a bill from the President, is far more perfect than the bill that was passed in 2015, and besides being more balancedly prescribed and part of the burden of proof, it also reinforces. Reinforced by civil confiscation. So in fact, it's our job not to plant everyone in the world, but to return those stolen assets that were stolen by the service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u54	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u55	We have service with you. So our main task is to return the funds that are stolen from us with you, and secondly, to plant those who are to blame, but again from a higher threshold of responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u56	Thank you. The word is given to Julia Klimenko, Klimenko Julia Leonidini, the faction of the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u57	I give the floor to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u58	Jaroslav Jurchisin, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to thank public organizations such as the Anti-Corruption Centre, Transparency International and our international partners and the new political team, which has actively participated in correcting an illogical and unconstitutional decision, sorry for the tautology, the Constitutional Court for the lifting of illicit wealth, and we have found a civil confiscation mechanism. This is necessary and timely, including adoption. But actually, what I want to point out is that too high in criminal responsibility, starting with over 14 million, leads a lot of people out of responsibility. And in this case, given that such sums will remain suspected of crimes, there is a good chance that they will simply be redeemed in a banal way. And in this case, we're not going to be able to recover the money or even bring people to account. I want to remind you of one of the slogans of Vladimir Zelensky's presidential campaign "come spring, we'll plant." Thus, with such a tall plank of planting, it is likely that the springs will have to wait very long. The Voice faction will support it on the basis and, nevertheless, we will try to convince our colleagues to lower criminal responsibility. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u61	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar, "European Solidarity." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u62	Victoria Petrovna Sumar, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u63	Colleagues, an extremely important bill. He was accepted by the Supreme Council of the past calling, but, as you know, he was recognized by the Constitutional Court as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. And today, if we want to return the criminalization of illicit wealth, obviously this bill must be flawless and be consistent with the Ukrainian Constitution. At the same time, there's a whole bunch of things that clearly need clarification from our point of view. In particular, there are even differences in the table and in the text of the bill, where this threshold is defined by 15,000 non-taxable minimum citizens' incomes and 12,000, and these are unacceptable errors in such important documents. But there are other important nuances, especially how the court will evaluate the evidence. In cases of unwarranted asset recognition and revenue collection, the court decides in favour of the party whose evidence was more convincing than the evidence of the other party. So no one's going to prove whether you got it legally or illegally, just that the evidence is more convincing or less convincing. That's a pretty good judgment that we're bringing to trial. And I think we need to make it clear that there's no abuse here. Next, what's the term "legal income"? Legal revenue means income lawfully received by a person from legal sources, such as the sources defined in part one, part one, paragraph 7, of Article 46 on anti-corruption. We open this article, this is a list of what you're saying. And you'll see that paragraph 7 is just your income at the workplace -- pay and all that. But it does not include paragraph 8 — the available cash assets, or your savings. If you bought something out of the savings you got when you were an entrepreneur before you became, for example, a government official, it could no longer be considered a violation of the law and these assets could be confiscated. I think that's the kind of thing that needs to be clarified. And here, if it's legal revenue, it's got to be about all the income that's paid taxes, and also.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u64	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u65	And all income, including family members, if declared. There's also, you're missing this norm that the GNEU is paying attention to. So, look, the devil is in detail. It's a very good law and good intentions, but sometimes good intentions, good intentions, good intentions, paved the way to hell. Let's make this law work for justice, not open the door to raiding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u66	Thank you. The word is "Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich", the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u67	Thank you, Your Honor. Please pass the word to Slavicki Antonini, National Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u68	Please turn on Slavic Antonini's microphone. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u69	Please pass the word to Slavicki Antonini again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u70	Slavic Antonini, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Our faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support Presidential Bill 1031 in the first reading. But we believe that the provisions of this bill for second reading should be significantly worked out so that they do not conflict with the Constitution and take into account the substantive observations made by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council. We also think that this beautiful bill should not ultimately become a tool for selective persecution of political opponents. Thank you. We support on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u72	Thank you. The word is given to Vlasenko, Sergey Vlasenko, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u73	Thank you, Mr. Head. Now let's try talking about this bill without political slogans, and professionally. I stood in the same way on the Supreme Council's rostrum in February 15th and said that the Fatherland faction was unreservedly supporting the fight against corruption, including illegal enrichment. But then I said that, colleagues, in an editorial way, as that law was passed, it was recognized by the unconstitutional Constitutional Court. I was told then, no, it's not, it's different. Three years later, unfortunately, a short edition of that law helped corrupters escape responsibility. That's the first one. Now the second one. Nobody said that, this law is not just about corrupters, it's about everyone. Because there are thirds of us here who don't know what they're doing under some unknown instructions. Colleagues, I took part in a case about oral instructions, no one proved anything, man sat in prison for three years. What is it? So it's about everyone, not just the corrupts. Now what else is being proposed here? The reverse of the law in time is once. Transfer to the ARMA and realignment of property.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u74	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u75	Thank you. The disclosure of banking and any mystery to any person, not only by corrupts, without a court order, but only by written request from the head of the NAB or the leader of the DBD. It is a court for the arrest of property without the participation of a person whose property is arrested. It's a possibility, well, I'm not talking about the presumption of innocence anymore. And we're told that 14.4 million is a large sum, I agree, on one side. But, on the other hand, our colleagues, at our level of work, any house curve in the village can be estimated at 14 million, and rural deputies can become such great corrupters, and all the villagers will become third parties, because they all communicate with their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u76	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u77	Ten seconds to complete. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u78	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u79	So I am asking very much not to help corrupters, to avoid responsibility, and to adopt a normal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u80	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u81	Good afternoon, fellow officers, two minutes, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u82	With motive, one minute, Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u83	The MPs have the same rights as the faction. Let's just stand by this rule, the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u84	But two in a row, two in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u85	Dear friends, we've all come here to live and work by law. We understand the need for this law, it's in pain, and people are waiting for the punishment of corrupt people who are needed in any corridors and offices of power, including the parliamentary room in which we sit. And people are awaiting punishment, landings and arrests. However, we realize that good intentions should be pursued by an unreserved legal framework. We want to live by law. And in this situation, we don't understand many of the things that are laid down in this bill. We do not understand the norm regarding the extension of this law to the facts of illegal enrichment over the past four years before the law becomes effective. But we're violating the constitutional procedure. The law has no reverse power! This is one fact that is sufficient to send the bill for further work and to bring it into line with the Basic Law of Ukraine. We don't understand what legal methods are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u86	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u87	When his family’s income is not taken into account. We don't understand what the criterion of "convincion in courts" is? When a person goes to convince his or her right to an appropriate one. the property is acquired. And we understand what courts and who they can give this criterion of conviction. My friends, our country, unfortunately, are known for the fact that there are instances of persecution of the innocent and not persecution of the guilty. So let us live with you in the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u88	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. The bill will be put to the vote in the order of registration. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1031) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the confiscation of the illegal assets of persons authorized to perform the functions of the State or local self-government and the penalties for obtaining such assets. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the vote to the vote and I'm asking for your support. [[11:04:36]] For 316 Thank you. Decision taken. For -316 versus -0 held -38. Show me the factions, please. The "Serving of the People" faction – 237, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 20, non-fractional – 19. Thank you. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten by half the time of preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1031) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government, and to punish the acquisition of such assets. Please support and vote. [[11:05:40]] For 254 Decision taken. 254 – in favour – 26, held – 66. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on individual issues of haberdashery-weight control (registration number 1047). It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:06:24]] For 265 Two-six, two-six, versus nine, holding. Decision taken. The bill is being reviewed by a reduced procedure. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kubrakov Aleksandro Mikolaiovich. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u89	Good afternoon, colleagues! Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, you are invited to consider a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on specific issues of haberdashery and weight control (registration number 1047 of 29.08). The bill was defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine and at the first meeting of the Supreme Council from 29 to 30 August 2019. The bill is designed to preserve the roadways of general use and use them according to the technical conditions of operation, thus excluding the excessive cost of budgeting to address the consequences of such destruction. The introduction of automatic weight control of means of transport is part of road safety. The vast majority of Ukrainian highways were built in the 1960s and 1970s. As a result of the uncontrolled movement of means of transport, the weighting of which exceeds the permitted standards, the automobiles are experiencing significant premature damage, including the weakening of the defense of the state, we saw all of this in the 13th, 14th, 15th years. Road constructions are not able to absorb the loads of trucks, and 97 percent of the roadways have already lost their capacity. In 2014, an automatic weight control was installed on the Kiev-Chop road. As a result of this experiment, about 30 percent of vehicles have a significant excess of weight. The operating system, well, we can see that it's not able to provide the gabaric weight control at the right level. We all know how Crucial Security worked over the years. We all know who was covering up for the head of Cruise Security, and there are even people in this room who haven't let him go, yes, almost all the last years. That's the point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u90	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u91	The essence of the bill is to legislatively establish the possibility to fix infringements in automatic mode, to foresee the formation of sanctions, to specify the responsible persons who will be responsible for administrative responsibility for offences, to establish the responsibility for failure by drivers of vehicles carrying passengers and cargoes of the requirements of the authorized persons of Cruise Safety to stop the vehicle. Please correct the grammatical error, which is read under the stenogram: "In paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 of section 60, replace the figure 60 with the figure 48 due to the changes introduced in the bill with article 48 and not article 60 of the Ukrainian Automobile Law. Please support the adoption of Bill 1047 on the basis that our carriers, saving thousands of dollars on each flight, are destroying what billions of dollars are worth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u92	Thank you. But, Alexander Mikolaiovich, the request to comply. Thank you. The first deputy head of the Transport and Infrastructure Committee, Klimenko Yulia Leonidivni, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u93	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to start with statistics, with really scary statistics. 2018: We have 100,000 public transport adventures, of which 25,000 are affected. In 2018, 3,000,300 people were killed and 30,000 injured. This, including Ukraine, is probably one of the last places safe on the road. This is the result of an overload of freight transport, a convenient transport that travels our roads. And I think our colleagues in the southern and eastern regions see much more because there are roads that are just destroyed in fact. So I also want to say statistics that 10 percent of the extra stress on the road is destroying this road by 30 percent. So the depreciation of the road is reduced by 30 percent. So actually, from the State Road Fund, we're inefficiently spending our money repairing roads. Bill 1047 was considered by a committee, supported unanimously, independent of political affiliation, because we believe that the inefficient use of road fund money, overcrowding of cars and the corruption component that is currently in receipt, in fact, of transport permits should go into the past. And this bill, Bill 1047, provides for automatic fixation without human intervention. Such complexes will be installed all over Ukraine, on all roads of national importance. A human factor will also be removed and automatic weighing of cars will improve the quality of roads, which will result in the use of the road fund once again in quality and efficiency. And the third. The fines to be paid for the overload of cars will also be directed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u94	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u95	to repair roads. So we ask you very much to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. If there are any suggestions, requests to the committee, we will be happy. We'll support it as a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u96	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two for, two for, and two for the faction. Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u97	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, TV crews! Dear friends, this is really the first step towards building modern infrastructure. Our faction will support adoption in the first reading of this bill. But I want to point out that this bill proposes to build six of these complexes. But only the city of Kiev has the need to build such 10, at least, complexes. In Ukraine, at least 100 should be built. This issue needs to be addressed in an integrated way. And I think that by the second reading, perhaps the Ministry will be working with the relevant investors and will propose to expand this program. And yet to build, as soon as possible, 100 complexes. As I said before, our faction will support voting on the basis of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u98	Thank you. The word is Greenchuk Oksani Anatolyevna, faction of "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u99	Good day to you all! Please pass the word to Skipper Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u100	Alexander Skichko, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u101	Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! I'd like to fix my colleague up a little bit about six complexes. It's actually a pilot project, and it's not about the number absolutely, and the bill says that it will allow you to fine automatically. The complexes will be installed much more, and this is primarily done by the Cabinet of Ministers. We are talking today about the lack of roads in Ukraine, and we are talking about the need to spend money on repairs. Let's speak plainly, until we clear out of Ukraine's 200 tons furways, and I remind you that there's 202 tons of fur recorded at 40 tons, we're not going to have any roads in Ukraine. So I ask you very much to support this bill. Moreover, it is now vital not only for the development and repair of roads but also for the development of river transport and rail transport. Because today, if you have 200 tons of vans, it won't go to the river, because it's economically completely uncomfortably. So I urge everyone to support our faction. And it would be my wish that we would support it not only as a foundation but as a whole, because this bill is necessary today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u102	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, Future Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Mr. Dmitri Lubintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u104	Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u105	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The MPs will support this bill, we welcome it, but we have some comments. First. Why do you install only six in this automatic, as it were, and you say you have to install all over Ukraine? So we welcome, but we all understand clearly that big trucks crash roads when they take their products to port first. Why do we have the broken Odessa region, Mikolaiivska, Hersonska, Berdjansk, Mariupol? But because large trucks go there first. In fact, two years ago, we had a record of Ukraine’s antirequest when a 180 - ton car arrived at the Mikolai port and broke the weights right on the way into the port. Clearly, then, a bill is vital. We're spending more and more -- roads are getting worse and worse. We can do the same thing in Western Ukraine, the same problem in Lviv. So, of course, a very needed bill, we welcome it, we'll make our proposals for a second reading. We stand for cutting the deadline and making amendments to seven days, and so we will vote for it. And we want to show that really order in the road sector has to start with people who own large transport companies clearly understand: there's a law, there's no more than 20 tons per axis, and we need to stick to that. Thank you, we vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u106	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u107	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Would you please hand over to the member of the profile committee, Grand Chief Mikoli?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u108	Grandmaster Mikola, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The European Solidarity faction shares the idea of increasing the responsibility for transporting large-scale transport on our roads, which does not meet the standards. We share this position because we were in the previous call, many of our colleagues were among those who took part in the decision-making and the Road Fund Act, which is now funded by road works throughout the country, both of state importance and of regional importance. However, I would like to say that there are some points in this bill that need to be worked out in the second reading. And that's what the next position is about. First. The lack of a clear distinction of responsibility between the driver and the owner, when it may be both the owner and the driver, when there is no norm of responsibility for the fact that the cargo that exceeds the nominal weight that the vehicle can carry is not the owner of the cargo. There are also inconclusive rules that need to be worked out with regard to possible fines. These are the positions we have to consider. We will be, "European Solidarity" will support this bill in the first reading. Moreover, the bill's standards repeat the same bill, which was drafted in the eighth convocation. By the way, there's one of the authors here, he's a member of the current vocation, and a number of the deputies who took part in the drafting of that bill are part of the faction that is now a member of the European Solidarity Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, the question has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please take your seats in the hall, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1047). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:21:22]] For 323 Thank you. Decision taken. For 323, versus 0, hold on to 1. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you, there were some suggestions to support this bill today as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's just not push it. That's all they talked about. One minute, I'll make a deal. It was said that six complexes, colleagues say that there are not six complexes here, that it's just a pilot project. Is there any point in voting today as a whole? [[B in m in s a l in]] If you don't mind, I'll give the committee another word. Julia Klimenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u111	I would like to say that this bill does not determine the number of complexes. The seven complexes that are now being installed in Kiev and Kiev are a pilot project that is being implemented both by local authorities and by the Ministry of Infrastructure. Similarly, the number and location were determined by the executive body. You and I are legislators, we make a framework, then the executive body implements, sets up at the expense of international organizations. These will be the funds that the World Bank seems to have given us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u112	Give me your word, Big Mike. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We support the idea of this bill, but we believe that some adjustments are needed to avoid reading in some articles and others to make it even better to ensure that those responsible for this sector do not avoid responsibility. So I'd like to go to the committee before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u114	Look, our roads are in such a state today that every day is a problem. I'll give you my word. Alexander Skipper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry, Mr. Bigwig, well, we actually talked this out completely on the committee, and your proposal on what you need to draw to the responsibility of the cargo owners, it didn't support it because it's impossible. Today, the operator who took on the responsibility of transporting must be responsible. If there is a fine of more than two million dollars, no carrier today will take the responsibility of transporting such cargo, as we discussed. And the roads today are in a terrible state, and we are voting in general today to allow automatic traction and control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u116	Thank you. I would like to give our colleagues from the Cabinet of Ministers another minute to prove their position and perhaps this will convince the Hall not to retain this, indeed, important bill for our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u117	Thank you very much. Victor Dougan, Deputy Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for European Integration. Ladies and gentlemen, two of these. It's very important that I fully support the National MP, a member of the Transport Committee, to adopt this law as a whole. Very simple: what will this law do? Here are two visualizations, yes, two pictures. The security inspector standing in manual mode is the corruption risks, the human factor, and the framework. I think you've traveled by car on the roads of Europe, even Belarus, even Moldova. The frame is coming out on the police's remote or security protocol. Everything, that is, there is no human factor. The fines are very up-to-date, there's 5-10 percent, mostly. So it's really a system law, and it'll just open the way for us to implement the Agreement on Association in Transport, Infrastructure. So on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure, we ask you very much. There's going to be a lot more of them, 10 of them are just the World Bank's funds, that's the pilot around Kiev. We're just going to try how to put it. And in fact, we already have 5 percent of the road fund, next year it's 5 percent of 75 billion dollars, it's going to go to security, including the border. We have to replace the inspectors on the road with the frame, Weigh-in-motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u118	Thank you. After a minute, Victor Vasilovich Bondar and Basil Nimchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u119	Thank you. An extremely important bill, really absolutely. There are road problems in Ukraine, everyone knows that. And the only way to solve this is to put order on the roads, to reduce the weight of cars that drive our national roads. There's an offer to go more like this, you know, diplomatically. Dmitri Alexanderovich, there's a Rules. If there are no deputies in the room who have objections or are planning to make amendments, we can vote in general under the Rules. But if there is one person who denies it, the Rules require us to vote then, we can vote, shorten the deadline and vote in general next Tuesday. But if no one objects, the Rules can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u120	Victor Vasilovich, I'm not proposing to break the rules right now. I go to the hall, all of us go on our roads, and some of us don't even go where our voters go, and they know there's no roads. And they don't have these roads because they're destroyed by a 200-ton transport. So we can put it off for another seven days, but I think enough, well, great consolidation today is in the hall and we could support it in general today without delay. [[Applause]] Basil Nimchenko, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life", a minute, and let's decide, to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, as I understand it, what I have come up with is neither amendment nor addition to the bill. And there was not even a written submission on this subject, as required, by the way, of the Rules. Therefore, to speak that the statement in question is not a statement of principle or a change of substance or a change in the norm of the law. And so if the author is more and more, he doesn't insist on that, then I think that there were no other proposals, and we can put them to a full vote, and in general. The law really needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u122	Thank you. The last Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u123	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, it's a really important bill. We've already started setting up these complexes on the Kiev-Chop highway. What's the plus? In fact, we really see our roads being destroyed from refueling. Only in August, last month, Crucifixion has found, well, she's fined over 200 tons for refueling. In Kirovgrad, 115 tons of grain was caught. There's a little problem. We're ready to support it, but there's a little problem. He paid the fine and left, and the road breaks down. So we have to solve the problem of how this is done in Austria -- the slowness and overload to other means of transport and let them drive to the delivery point. It's important because raising money is one thing, and saving road cover is another. We're ready to support it, but consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u124	Come on, let's accept this bill. I'm addressing the faction of European Solidarity, please support. Well, look, the whole room I'm backing up this initiative, the only position is yours. If you block, well, fine, but, I think so. Me, me, no. "Paternity" said she'd support it, as far as I could tell. If you don't mind, I suggest we put this to a vote in general. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, can we vote in general? I therefore put to the vote a proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations a bill (registration number 1047). amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on specific issues of habilitating weight control. Please support and vote. [[11:30:42]] For 331 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. [[Applause]] 331 – against – 3, held – 13. Please show by factions. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 22, "European Solidarity" – 18, "Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 11, "non-fractional" – 23. Thank you all. And, dear fellows, it's an important law that will enable us to move it from the dead. Let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Law. You will have before you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property (registration No. 1037). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[11:31:50]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken. For 257. Please come back. Against - 4, held - 47. Let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. A national MP is invited to attend. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u125	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I would like to remind all the national deputies who are present in the Hall that during the work of the Preparatory Deputies Group until the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the issue of the Privatization Control Commission, which is foreseen by the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property, has become a matter of concern. It was said that this commission was entirely an organ that was not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Because article 89 of the Ukrainian Constitution explicitly provides that the Supreme Council for the preliminary preparation of matters, as well as for the exercise of control. The Supreme Council committees shall be set up to perform the control functions. The Supreme Council, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, acts on the basis of, within and on the basis of, the Constitution of Ukraine. No rule of the Constitution provides for the right of the Supreme Council to form a special temporary commission on privatization issues, as provided for by the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. The question therefore arose that this commission should be eliminated, and the authorization of this commission, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, would be carried out by an appropriate committee to which the question, including the administration of state property, was referred, of privatisation. I mean, the Committee on Economic Development. At the committee meeting, we considered this issue, and there were no objections to the need to eliminate this artificial creation. So, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you today to vote on the basis of this bill as a whole. In order not to complicate the work of the Supreme Council with another unnecessary issue of agenda at the next plenary meeting or at the next, more faithfully, weekly plenary meeting, since this makes no legal sense. So I suggest you support today and in general, and eliminate the body that no one needs, which is unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u126	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to speak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u127	Good day, dear fellows, Your Honor's Head, the Presidium! The Committee on Economic Development has indeed considered draft Law 1037 at its meeting, and my colleague Feder has quite thoroughly explained the reasons for its consideration. But I'm going to try to add a very simple thesis: the last time this committee met was in July 2018. The proper effectiveness of the work of this commission can be called into question as well as the fact that it exists, especially considering the fact that the Constitution does not provide for the possibility of creating such a commission. We're talking about optimizing processes, we're talking about more effective government regulation, we're talking about more efficient government bodies, we're talking about the outcome, not the endless processes of delaying it. The year the commission didn't meet without any results is definitely ineffective. Appropriately, the proposal to eliminate this commission has been made, and it is absolutely natural, more than that, it is backed up by the requirements of current legislation. Therefore, as a result of the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee decided in their majority to introduce the draft Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property (1037) for consideration by the Supreme Council and the results of the first reading to recommend acceptance as a basis and as a whole as a law with technical legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u128	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Seminian Oleg Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u129	Good afternoon! Seminsky, 205 District, Servant of the People. Please give me your word. Rocksolana floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u130	Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, the "Serial of the People" faction and I personally urge you to support exceptions to the legislation to mention the Special Commission on Privatization Control. Should there be parliamentary control over the privatization process? Absolutely, yes. Does the Supreme Council's Supervisory Commission on Privatization have sufficient authority to carry out this control? No, of course not. Let's stop fooling ourselves. The only one that has real implications for Mert and the Holding Fund is a professional parliamentary committee that depends on the passing of government bills in the field of economics, queries and letters to the commission. We had eight calls to see the total incompetence of this commission. In 2018 we finally had a little privatisation through ProZorro. Sales that brought $1.5 billion to Ukraine in one year. Did the commission put it this way? No, it's not. Did the commission help get the Ministry to transfer state-owned enterprises to privatization? No, I'm not. The report on the commission’s work states that in the sixth and seventh calls, the commission worked and developed a national privatization programme. And I want to ask, excuse me, does it take eight years to develop a government program? In eight years, ProZorro. Sales privatize government property for at least 12 billion dollars. And the commission drafted a bill on the holding fund. It's the same holding fund that doesn't do anything today except block privatization and transparent rent. And I have a question: why spend taxpayers' expenses on maintaining a commission that doesn't have any authority? So I also propose to vote on this bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u132	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues have certainly addressed this issue. But I had a point, and I'm asking him not to look at it. vote today exclusively in the first reading. Let me explain why. Of course, there is no doubt about the liquidation of the Privatization Commission. But my suggestion is that article 9 should be formulated, not by the Privatization Commission, but by the Supreme Council's control of privatization. And give the following text: that in order to ensure that the exercise of privatization is monitored, that Ukraine's legislation on privatization and the analysis of its consequences from the members of the Supreme Council's supervisory function on matters of privatization should be placed on the Preparatory Committee of the Supreme Council. Then we're in the law of this right now with 9 articles and we're writing a rule on control. And I'd like to ask a very important question about the date of elimination, the actual elimination of this standard. We know that the following questions that will be voted on are the abolition of the list of state and municipal property objects on privatization and restrictions in this direction. Therefore, we insist that if we are to maintain it, it is only in the first reading that we should go to the second reading with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u134	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur. Kubov Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Mr. Head, the prize! I would like to welcome the first Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Kuchtu, who is present. You know, I'd go first of all: you can't throw everything that was wrong. Because since 2016, when the Ministry of Economic Development was looking at trade, the Ministry of Finance, the whole government of the Holding Fund, has gradually changed the situation. On the other hand, the 1993 acts clearly do not match the spirit or the changes in time. But we have to do everything in a legal way and solve things in a way that's actually effective, not the efficiency of the process, and we have to talk things out. Privatization, which we started in the form of small privatization, has produced a good result since 2016. And the ProZorro site, and the ProZorro team, and the Ministry of Economic Development, have produced good results. If we're even talking in general and we're talking about 240 thousand suppliers or 3 million 400 purchases, this is the work that the team has done that should be positive. The substance of the bill on the alleged non-conformity of the position of the Constitution with the provisions of the Privatization Act. We've been counseling for a long time today and yesterday at the faction. We talked about special control functions. We talked about, of course, that the convening of parliament in the past should have done better. As a result, we want to transfer Parliament's control to the committee. And I want to say today that three or four men on the subcommittee can't get full functions. But this must be done and the issue must be adequately resolved for active privatization and effective privatization. Analysis of government acts, State Property Fund, National Bank, Deposit Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u136	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u137	requires professionalism, requires both the mechanism and requires parliamentary control at the level of the committee in a different quality. And we need to think about what kind of mechanism we're going to offer, except for the subcommittee. Because three men, when we're talking about hundreds of thousands of purchases, especially small privatizations that don't go into ProZorro, it's a big legal job that we have to do. And today we cannot deprive Parliament of control over privatization. And we have to say two things that we're going to develop a mechanism, we're going to develop a committee and a subcommittee, but we're going to propose this mechanism in the future. After today's position of our political party "European Solidarity" we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u138	Thank you. Voice. The Voice was the first to raise. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, "The Voice". Please turn on the microphone. A moment of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Look, the answer to this bill, whether you accept it or not, was given at the end of August by a preparatory parliamentary group in which I had the privilege of participating. And then no representative of this group was able to say at least one argument to leave this commission. It's rudimentary. This is the commission that actually had a couple of phone calls just to make someone have a better visit. And most importantly, it was in no way an effective control of privatization. And the very right decision was made by the preparatory group: to transfer the small powers and objects of knowledge to a professional committee that is concerned about privatization issues, directs the appointment of the head of the State Property Fund, and other matters related to privatization. So I urge all of us to just make Parliament a little bit more effective, get rid of this rudimentary, as was done in the vote on August 29th, and most importantly, it is to support this bill. I don't see the need for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u140	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u141	I'm sure this bill can be supported in that way, it's very short there, so it'll be an effective solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u143	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to remind you that during the work of the preparatory group that prepared the first meeting of the Supreme Council, it was my colleague’s offer to the faction of Andrija Kozemyakina that this Privatization Commission should be eliminated. Not because Parliament should have no control, but because the results of the commission's work in the past call were not there. Moreover, the past authorities have failed a full privatization programme and everything has been done to bankrupt Ukrainian businesses and then give them away for free. The privatisation of state property must take place in such a way as to prepare the enterprise for privatization, they had the highest price, and they could be sold at open auctions. The only honest privatisation that took place during the years of independence is when the government of Yulia Timoshenko returned to the state property of Creebrisstal and then the record amount that remains record-breaking at the open auction provided it with fair sales. That's how privatization is supposed to be done. That's why we, as Fatherland, support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u144	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u145	We support this decision regarding the cancellation of this commission, but at the same time we need to form a strong special commission to deal with veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u146	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u147	We must ensure the formation of a temporary special committee for veterans, and this is our duty to those who have defended Ukrainian independence and our borders. At the same time, the issue of a special privatisation control function should be referred to the relevant Economic Committee of Profiles. We'll be supporting the Fatherland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u148	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading of the draft Act (Registration No. 1037) amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. Please support and vote. [[11:47:32]] For 311 Thank you. Decision taken. To 311. Against it, 1 / 1 It's been held down to four. Ladies and gentlemen, as the head of the Preparatory Group, I had to be at a meeting where all the political forces and the already-deputy groups agreed that this commission should be eliminated. Please tell me, if there's no objection, maybe we'll vote on it all today, so we don't have to delay this process. [[Applause]] Okay, then, if there's no objection, I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act (registration No. 1037) amending the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property. Please support and vote. [[11:48:38]] For 313 Thank you. Decision taken. For 313. Against the 3rd. It's been held down to three. The law was passed in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Show by factions: "The Servant of the People" – 228, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherland" – 16, "For the Future" – 8, "The Voice" – 18, "the Non-Factional" – 22. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to stimulate investment in Ukraine (registration number 1059). I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[11:49:45.]] For 245 For 245, against 4, hold on to 56. Decision taken. Let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Schuljak Olena Alexiyevna. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u149	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Honorary Presidium, honourable members of the national parliament, you have before you a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to stimulate investment activities (registration number 1059). We all realize that today Ukraine is losing its fight to invest in our European neighbours. Even though we have tremendous potential, it's like a resource, it's like a human capital. Of course, things like war, occupied territories, they don't add up any points in these competitions. But we, as a country, have to work twice, no, probably tens of times more to make our country investment attractive. Bill 1059, which is logically recognized by the President as urgent, demonstrates these very first steps that will be taken by both external and internal investors as a positive signal. The areas covered by this bill are: protection of shareholders’ rights, enforcement of contractual obligations, justice, and construction. Literally a few words about the area of construction. The bill cancels a low, very corrupt tax, which is also referred to as "investment tax," and that's just a pie share. Almost all of Europe's countries (exclusion – a small town in Ireland) have refused to have such a mechanism, and today this is exactly the least bit of food contribution and is that obstacle to the involvement of many investments in Ukraine. Thank you. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u150	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich. Igor Marchuk. Igor Marchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u151	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr. Head! The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 6 September 2019 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Promotion of Investment Activities in Ukraine under Registration No. 1059, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Schuljak Oleniyevna. The purpose of the bill, as has already been pointed out and, by the way, in the Explanatory Note, is to improve the investment climate of Ukraine in a separate direction and chosen by a comprehensive assessment of the compliance of Ukraine's legislation with better world practices described by the World Bank Group in the Doing Business rating methodology. This is an increase in the protection of minority shareholders' rights; the liability for damages caused by rights of interest to decisions adopted by the majority shareholder; and the cancellation of the rations contribution, as we all know, is indeed a corrupt tax on construction and investment; and the cancellation of the need to make a monetary assessment of the land in the transfer of land to a private person. In addition, some innovations have been introduced in the area of contractual obligations, as well as in the field of limited liability for the activities of these companies on the basis of a model charter. Amendments to the code are being made to implement the purpose set out in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u152	Give me 10 seconds, I'm out of time, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u153	Okay. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies decided to draft the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Lawmakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u154	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u155	Let me finish, please. With regard to the promotion of investment activities for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the outcome of the first reading, recommend acceptance as a basis and as a whole as the Law of Technical Legal Processing for Registration Number 1059. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u156	Thank you. Please register the factions: two in, two in, two in. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u157	Good afternoon, colleagues. Before I became a national deputy, I was a substitute for the city’s head, and I understand very well what a pie is and where it is going. Although it is designed to ensure the development of infrastructure, in fact, this tax is almost never directed at these very objectives. Moreover, he is so corrupt that his cancelling does not have to upset anyone at all. So I argued with the Association of Ukrainian Cities for a very long time, and they couldn't convince me that this tax should be left behind. Therefore, I would like to support this bill and vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u158	Thank you. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolaiovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u159	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please give the word to Stepan Ivanovich Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u160	Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u161	Mr. Head, gentlemen of the Presidency, Deputy Minister, I want to say that this bill is very familiar to me because it was developed by the Ministry of Economic Development. We've submitted it to the Supreme Council of the past vocation. On the committee, we agreed that the Ministry of Economic Development had now confirmed the possibility of submitting the bill under a new issue, and we received a letter and a letter of good. The other one. We are amending the 5 codes of Ukraine and more than 4 laws. This bill is absolutely positive for international business ratings and potential investors. I would define four important positions here. This is, first of all, the protection of the rights of minority shareholders of societies. The second is the strengthening of the influence of the general congregations. The third is the extension of the creditor rights guarantee mechanism. And the fourth is the cancellation of excessive fiscal burden, for example, the cancellation of the payment of the rations contribution to the development of the infrastructure of the populated site or the cancellation of the monetary valuation of private property areas transferred to the mortgage. These are very positive symptoms and positive steps. It can really be accepted in general, but I would like to draw attention, Mr. Head, to the fact that the GNEU on the 5th page has given its comments and warnings. And these remarks, the warnings don't allow, because there are a few dozen laws. I propose: firstly, to support the first reading, secondly, a reduced procedure, this next week, we will confirm it, and work with GNEU on issues that are not about politics, but about purely legislative acts. Our political one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u162	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u163	The political faction, the European Solidarity Party, will support this bill on the basis. And the second. I propose a reduced procedure to vote for the following week as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u164	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u165	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I wanted to go directly to the majority. We've had elections, we've talked to people, they've given us assignments at every meeting. First-line projects are, of course, projects that will allow the index of pensions, wages to raise, reduce tariffs, make available medicine. And by no means did they give us the commission to make extremely lobbyist standards and to conduct them through a bill. Please tell me, how does this bill provide for the protection of the creditor? As we go around the Law on the Moratorium of the Recruitment of Citizens, we introduce the notion of "trustful property." And now without trial or investigation, a person can take away a house, land, property. Do we read such laws? Do we see that there is a certain lobbyism of financial institutions? Colleagues, this is the wrong approach. And let's be honest with you, and let's face it, there are two standards here that need to be discussed. And the second rule is pie. Believe me, local budgets need compensators. I'm not talking about big cities like Kiev right now, but believe me, for OTG budgets, it's a lot of money. These are significant costs, they're only 4 percent. Now let me give you an example. Today, the average cost of building around the country is 9,000 dollars. Four percent is 360 bucks. You think the builders who talk about myths, that they're going to reduce the cost of housing, they're going to do it, and it's going to affect people's purchasing ability? Colleagues, "Fatherland" supports in the first reading, if we take the lobbying rule by creditors here and we think about citizens, and we don't allow collectors to take the last out of the Law on the Moratorium on the acquisition of property from Ukrainian citizens. It's wrong, colleagues, to put in this way through trustful property the possibility of selling property without trial. Emphasis, no trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u166	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u167	Dear Sir, honourable deputies! Mr. Kubov and Mr. Yvchenko have certainly already been quoted. I would like to draw attention to the fact that our colleagues from the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development have just highlighted these problems. And we actually understand about the impact on local budgets, here is the question of further development. Given that the GNEU's conclusion at all was to reject, we still recommend that it be supported in the first reading and that it be further developed during the week. Because in fact, just considering the name goes "as far as stimulating investment," he went to the Committee on Economic Development. In fact, they have suggestions from a colleague from other committees. And they'll be ready in principle to solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u168	Thank you. Motives, but a minute. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u169	Colleagues, half of this room is a major MP. The MP Group "For the Future" is a major MP who is not accountable to any particular political party. We are accountable to the people who chose us. And I hope that other major MPs remember that they're accountable to people. People are waiting for money in themselves, for their infrastructure objects that haven't changed in years, the social and economic development costs that are stopped. Costs of the State Regional Development Fund that are now stopped. And we're waiting for them to leave or not to leave. And in this bill, we're putting in qualities. Please, half a minute. We lay down the characteristics of the cancellation of the obligation to pay the rations contribution to the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited area. So we're even more depriving ourselves of the opportunities for the development of the populace that we're responsible for. So, friends, the money is undercalculated by schools, kindergartens, clubs, and so on. Thus, in the absence of adequate public funding for the stated need to cancel additional sources of local budgets laid down in this bill, we find it unimportant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u170	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, for reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u171	Colleagues, I'm going to be very brief. This bill, it's not new. If I'm not mistaken, three years ago he was brought into the past call, he was actively supported, and we discussed with Mrs. Mary Ionova how many times he was put to the vote, 18-20, it doesn't matter, but the result was the same: he wasn't accepted, and we stayed on the doorsteps of various investment attractiveness ratings, including Doing Business. And today, we finally have a chance to show our results next fall. Is this bill perfect? Probably not. It can be amended, and there is a second reading procedure. But we have no way of not adopting this bill today. It's not just improving business in Ukraine, it's not just simplifying procedures, it's what we all want -- it's our call to a foreign national business that Ukraine is changing, and they can invest their money and build an economy here. So once again, I ask you to support this bill, quickly work it out with the Ministry of Economics and move it into the room already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u172	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1059) to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to encourage investment in Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. Please support and vote. [[12:05:43]] For 290 Against - 2, held - 34. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut in half the preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1059. Please support and vote. [[12:06:17]] For 279 Thank you. Decision taken. For 279, versus 10, held 29. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, recess is announced until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u173	Please invite the national deputies to the hall. the deputies to the hall. 12:30. Dear factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to take your seats, we'll continue our meeting. Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I understand that we work in the turbine, but we don't work in hyperlup mode and in time machines. So if you and I agree that we have a break until 12:30, it's 12:30, not 12:50. Since we have problems with punctuality, I hope that they will disappear in the near future, but if so, unfortunately I have to ask you to continue our work after 18, if this is necessary before we exhaust the agenda of today's session. So we continue our work. Please support and vote in favour of the above-mentioned proposal, just continue the meetings after 18 hours, if necessary. Yes, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I understand you can do anything, yes, if you have this number of votes. But I would still ask you to pay attention to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If you read in detail the 19th article, article 19 states in an imperative way that Tuesday and Friday are only morning meetings. That is, it does not provide for an ad hoc procedure for Wednesday. I said Tuesday, right? For Wednesday. Wednesday, according to the Rules, only. Although you may vote on the ad hoc procedure, there, the evening session. If it's legitimate enough, it's a question, let's say, not to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u177	Mikhail Mikolaiovich, with all due respect, but if I understand correctly, your faction is not in the hall yet. If we were working on time, I think we'd be done at 18, as it would be necessary. But if we have problems with punctuality so far, I think we can solve them. I'm sure if everyone were equal to you and were as punctual as you are, well, that's true, then we wouldn't have to continue our work. So I'm still asking you to come to the hall, and just in case we don't have any problems. Yes, Knyazevich. Ruslan Knyazevich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u178	Dear Mr. Head, I want to tell you that, in principle, not to allow this kind of situation, because they are really unacceptable, I would ask you for a future simply when the time is up, taken and installed by you for a break, you automatically started a session and didn't wait for the session room to come together. Because I'll remind you that we don't need a quorum right now to deal with the issues, and it will only be needed during the vote, as decided by the Constitutional Court. And by the time there is a vote, the room will be enough to make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u179	That's a fair offer, but unfortunately it's not entirely possible, because we have to vote in favour of a shorter procedure, and we need 150 votes. When I entered the hall, I entered the hall at 12:29 p.m., there were no 150 national deputies. So I think let's move on. Please support the proposal to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the 18th, if necessary, until issues of order are exhausted. [[12:53:17]] For 251 For -251, versus -0, held -21. Thank you. Decision taken. But I hope that we will work quickly and efficiently, that we will not be late and that we will end up as necessary by 18 hours. yesterday, September 10th, at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, during the vote for the presidential bill on impeachment by the civil movement "Honestly" recorded the first case of buttoning in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. What I greet you with, I'm sorry. I hope that once we have passed all the necessary laws that we have so promised the people of Ukraine, it will be unacceptable and impossible in the Supreme Hall. The requirement of article 84 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 37, 47 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was violated by the non-fractional national deputy of Ukraine Majority-Samoorist Alexander Kovalov. I want to point out that such actions are unacceptable, once again. And I hope that this will not happen on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on. Let's move on to the agenda. [[B in m in s a l in]] This should have been a vote if it were a constitutional decision, and that would have been the basis. And I'm sure if you count the number of votes that were devoted to this bill, then. I think that when you were closer to the people's deputies. I understand when it's convenient, everybody sees bad. I suggest we move on to the agenda. Let's move on to the next question. You have been handed over a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the legal protection of geographical indications. I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. [[12:55:42]] For 256 Thank you. For -256, versus -0, held - 0. Decision taken. The question will be considered by a simplified procedure. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolan Andriyev, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the main objective of Bill 1065 is to ensure that intellectual property rights are properly protected by geographical names, brands. What is it? Geographical references are the names of regions and areas where goods with special characteristics and reputation are traditionally produced. Usually it's food and alcoholic beverages, it's unique goods, and you hear about them often, and you know everyone. It is the wine of the bordeau and the kyanti or the cheese of the rockfort and the feta. Having signed the Association Agreement, Ukraine has undertaken to protect European geographical brands from counterfeiting. This means that, as a country, we agree that champagne can only be produced from grapes that grow in the French region of Champagne. This passage of Bill 1065 means that Ukrainian producers will no longer be able to produce Ukrainian champagne but will come to a world - wide practice and call their wines a gamer. This is the logical approach of civilized countries. If you have invested time and resources in the development of your geographical region and the geographical name of your brand, your right to commercialize this brand should be protected by the State. Ukrainian names, brands are also given legal protection in European Union countries. The government is already developing a list that will include the Gutsulian sheep brinch, the Melitopol cherry, the Carpathian wine, the Carpathian honey, and so forth. This will primarily contribute to the promotion of Ukrainian exports. So please support Bill 1065. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u181	Thank you. He is invited to report to the Economic Development Committee of Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u182	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Thank you. Roxanne Andriyevn, quite rightly pointed out why this law is extremely important. And at the Economic Development Committee on September 6, we really did consider draft Law 1065. But I would also like to point out that this is a law that has no one-sided movement, this is a law that will allow Ukrainian brands to be protected on an equal footing in trade with the countries of the European Union. It has already been noted that such geographically protected brands as cognac, parmesan, Spanish chamonos, and Istrian olives have undeniable protection. But the fact that we still don't have a protected lion's cobbler, a vineyard or an elementary Kiwi cake, that's the only question we have with you. And you and I have to give an incentive and support Ukrainian producers to compete on an equal footing with European goods in the European market. Therefore, the committee concluded the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on improving legal protection and geographical indications (No. 1065) to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and recommending that the first reading should be adopted as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u183	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Please sign up for two, two, against the factions. Kopanczuk Olena Eugenyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u184	Please pass the word to Sergio Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u185	Babak Sergey, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u186	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! After signing the Association Agreement, Ukraine assumed a number of obligations, including harmonization of legislation in the field of intellectual property rights. In the past, the international community has constantly criticised us for not making progress in reforming this area. Let's remember how in 2018 the United States suspended trade preferences for parts of Ukrainian goods. The lack of progress in the reform of intellectual property is primarily due to Ukrainian exports to many countries around the world. Draft Law 1065 provides for the implementation into national legislation of the requirements of Articles 204, 207 of the Association Agreement, as well as the provisions of EU Regulation 1151 of 2012 on the quality of agricultural products and foodstuffs. This bill is one of a number of legislative acts that need to be brought into line with European Union legislation. Among other things, bills on inventions and useful models, industrial models, trademarks of copyright and adjacent rights. So I propose to take the path of civilized countries and start protecting intellectual property properly, because without that, there is no way to develop innovation in Ukraine. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u187	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u188	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick. And I'm glad you're doing your job right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u189	Mikola Knieżicki, "European Solidarity" faction, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u190	Yes, I also welcome the fact that President Zelenski, as an urgent matter, defines the laws of the government of President Dustenk. It's a good tradition. It's bad enough that Bill 1065 is word-for-word copied from Bill 0900, which is re-registered for this reading, which is, of course, plagiarism, but plagiarism like that. This is a good plagiarism because we support this bill. The only thing I'd like to mention. The faction will vote for him, apparently. What I'd like to point out is that, you know, the vineyard isn't sold extensively in champagne, and it's not going to hurt much, I think, from this bill. And our champagne and cognac producers will suffer. The bill needs to be adopted, but I would ask the government to pay attention to the support of domestic food producers, the alcohol industry, who will indeed be suffering from this damage. The damage is inevitable, but that is why they need special support. Thank you. The faction will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u191	Thank you. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u192	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, citizens of Ukraine, of course, this bill is necessary for the implementation of European legislation in accordance with the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. But I would like to draw attention, first of all, to the Cabinet of Ministers for the following things. We are, for example, trying to do something first, even though I know that in international practice how other countries operate, they always act in a mirror and on a parity basis. So we can take a lot of our own initiative of things that will create obstacles for our manufacturers and, at the same time, we won't have any profit from it. Look, this ridiculous Association Agreement, especially its economic part, has been signed. What do we have today? Today, all quotas for practically all Ukrainian goods, i.e. we, are closed by quotas. Ukraine loses. Now we're making these obstacles again for our producers. What do we have from the European Union? Is there a step forward? I'm just an outlaw from Bukovina. And won't that be a problem for the producers of our worry, the mammoli? Because there's a Romanian next to it. How balanced will our production be to be represented in the European market? I mean, all these things, I would ask that the Cabinet of Ministers put in some kind of parity and mirror, and that they should be protected, first of all, not by some grantoid interests of others, but, first of all, by Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u193	Thank you. If there are no more willing speakers. Yes, Dmitri Andriyovich. 30 seconds, yeah, almost 30 seconds. Turn on Natalie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u194	Thank you very much, dear colleagues. I am very happy, in fact, to take into account the statement made by previous colleagues regarding the fact that after the election we found that there was not only the presidency of a certain person but also the government of his name. I think it's a wonderful discovery for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u195	Thank you. Yes, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of a bill (registration number 1065) amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the legal protection of geographical indications. Please support and vote. [[13:05:42]] For 310 310 - in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, The decision was adopted, the law adopted in the first reading as a basis. Tell me, please, maybe there is. All of it? Are you ready to vote in general? Okay. Oh, no? No, it means no. Then, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the second reading of the bill (registration number 1065) to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve the legal protection of geographical indications. Please support and vote. [[13:06:44]] For 287 287 - in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act (Registration No. 1068). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:07:26]] For 266 266 is in, 0 is in, 49 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, 0 is in, Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given by Podlasy Roxolani Andriyevni, a national deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u196	Ladies and gentlemen, before I start my report on 1068, I want to say because this question will rise again, as if plagiarism in the bills that we register. Article 10 of the Law on Copyright and Neighboring Rights tells us that the object of copyright is not a document issued by the authorities of the State, including all legislative acts published for consultation. That's the first one. The other one. We agree with both the government and the Ministry of Economic Development. If they give us permission to re-register, we do. With regard to Bill 1068, this is the completion of the technical regulation reform that began in 2014. The bill finally strengthens the voluntary use of standards in Ukraine. I would like to point out right away that all requirements for the safety and health of citizens are fully regulated by mandatory technical regulations, so this bill does not create any risks, and Ukrainian business will win three times from this, primarily because Bill 1068 will make it possible to agree on an agreement to assess the conformity and acceptability of industrial goods, a so-called industrial carnage that will significantly reduce the cost of Ukrainian business for certification in European Union countries. So please support Bill 1068. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u197	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to speak for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u198	Thank you, Your Honor. In addition to what Rocsolán Andriyovn said, I would like to say that this bill 1068 was considered on the committee. And why is it so important? Because it actually allows Ukraine to join the so-called ASAA Treaty, which is defined. the condition of which is defined in Article 57 of the Association Agreement with the EU. What is ASAA? It's an agreement to assess the relevance and acceptability of industrial production. And most importantly, what we have to get out of this agreement is paragraph 2: "Trade in goods between the parties to the sectors covered by this agreement will take place under the same conditions as are applied to trade in goods between EU member countries." So, without being a member of the EU, we have the opportunity to trade with them at the level of industrial goods. This means that by increasing trade, we stimulate industry by stimulating industry, we increase jobs. And so we're working on the task that the government and the President have set -- increasing GDP and increasing growth. The committee therefore considered the bill 1068 at its meeting and recommended that the decision be taken to bring draft Law 1068 to the consideration of the Supreme Council and to adopt the first reading as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u199	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Please sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for, one for, one for. Pippa Natalia Romanovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u200	Good afternoon! We think Law 1068 is worth supporting. But there are also great conclusions of the GNEU, long as it has to be reconciled with other legislative acts for it to work. So we suggest that we support it in the first reading and work on it to make it a really quality law, not create new obstacles and misunderstandings to make it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u201	Thank you. The word is given to Kisilev Dmitry Davidovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u202	I ask you to pass the word to Mary Mezentsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u203	Maria Mezentsev, "Serial of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u204	Congratulations, fellow countrymen, welcome, people of Ukraine! The Association Agreement, Article 57, provides for the possibility for all Ukrainian non-food producers to trade with EU countries in the same way as member countries do. To make this a reality for Ukraine, we need to make a special agreement that Mr. Dmitri Nataluh has made. This agreement is called the ASSA. What this means in practice is what this means for the Ukrainian business. The Ukrainian exporter will prepare a package of documents that is short for export. In that case, it is estimated that these standards will be the same as in European institutions and do not require further confirmation. Therefore, Bill 1068 is now on the agenda, which proposes to introduce the principle-voluntary application of the standards that the World Trade Organization Agreement has already established. I would like to point out, my fellow Members, that this bill will also make further amendments to the Tax Code and the Customs Code. And I would like you to support this bill so that we can make this a collaborative path. And according to the Committee, which I am a substitute for head, from European integration, we have no objection to European Union law. Please support in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u205	Thank you, Marina Sergiyevna. Comer Natalia Igorovna, faction. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u206	Dear colleagues! I'd like to pay attention to what's been said and what's been said by the speakers about industrial zeros and, in general, approaches and basics. In order for us to be able to freely export industrial products to the markets of the European Union, it is necessary. First of all, we need to stimulate it inside the country -- to provide a resource base for the innovation and technological modernization of the real economy. Because if the previous government has been doing calculations on what we need is $165 billion to go to these technical regulations and standards primarily for industrial production. That's why we think that the President's bill should be urgent, in the first place, which is encouraging the introduction of an increase in the efficiency of industrial production. And as for what the colleagues of "European Solidarity" said. I rarely agree with them, but in this case I want to agree. Because the repetition of those draft laws that were formed in the past and the previous authorities, as far as I'm concerned, is at least wrong, because the new authorities and the new team that came in have in many ways declared the difference between economic policy and economic policy from the previous authorities. It is immoral to do such things and to bring them in again. Because it's for me. And tell the President not to do or introduce those draft laws of the previous government under his name as urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u207	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, well, once again, a law really needs to be done. But I want to draw the attention of all of us to the conclusion of the GNEU -- to return to work. You know, sometimes speed is not a very good thing, because experts and GNEU make a lot of remarks, especially about the lack of consistency of terminology, the text of the project is not directly related to the subject of the bill, the proposed changes are not correct, because changes are made to the old drafting of the law. The individual positions of the project do not match each other. Unjustified is the refusal to standardize land conservation and soil fertility and standardization in the field of land management and cartographic activity. Similarly, exclusions from a number of legislative provisions regarding the obligation to comply with standards in cases not covered by the TBT Agreement do not correspond to the European approach to standardization and do not comply with either the law or the specified agreement. So, colleagues, we should rightly vote for these things, but when even our body, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, points to the numerous flaws in this bill, that's why the question is, are we really doing this so quickly? So, of course, we're not going to support it in this way, and we want to pay attention to when we're putting bills into the hall, let's make it clear that our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is in position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u209	Thank you. From Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich, faction of European Solidarity. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u210	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, my fellow Members, I would like to say that this bill is very important. The other one. That this bill is Euro-Integrational, and Ivana Klimpush-Cincadze and I developed it as early as 2017, together with a group from the Ministry of Economic Development, which we supported today's bill. I'm going to say what I didn't say, because in 2017 there was an appropriate commission, and we on the committee last week totally agreed and worked out this paper that was put into the hall. The only thing that has not been said to be abrogated by sectoral standardization is that, for 15 years, the central executive authorities have the right to check the relevant areas of activity and, within their powers, to review their sectoral standards with a view to transferring them to a national level and to the level of enterprises or cancellations. This voluntary application of standards requires both requirements and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u211	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u212	requires the standards and requirements that have been confirmed at the committee meeting. Please support in the first reading. And the second is to shorten the term of consideration to second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u213	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1068) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Standardization Act. Please support and vote. [[13:19:31]] For-286 For 286, against 2, hold on to 31. Thank you. Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading as a basis. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the Bill of Registration No. 1068 on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Standardization. Please be supportive. [[13:20:14]] For 278 Against 3, hold on to 30. Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act on Improvement of Standards in Construction (Registration No. 1052). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:20:51]] For 267 Against - 1, holding - 42. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Schuljak Oleniyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u214	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! To your attention, the bill (registration number 1052) amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act, which deals with improving building standards. Today, there is a practice in Ukraine that only uses one method of regulation in construction, which is called "scheduled". He came to us with a legacy, an inheritance, from the Soviet Union. And so far, more modern, more innovative methods, such as target and parametric, are being used in world practice. Today, we ask this bill to add, complement, so that in our country, our designer architects can use more modern approaches to regulation. The bill also expands the circle of basic organizations, organizations that are involved in the development of state building standards. And we ask that such organizations be representatives of institutions at levels 3 and 4 of accreditation, representatives of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, representatives of professional organizations, self-regulation, etc. It is also proposed that all state building standards that are relevant and mandatory for implementation should be posted on the websites of executive authorities and made available free of charge. Thank you. Please support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u215	Thank you. The report is given to a member of the Committee on State Building Organizations, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Junakov Ivan Sergiyovich. Ivan Sergiyovich Junakov. Helen Alexiyevna's asshole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u216	I'm in place of Mr. Junakov. At a meeting of the Committee on Public Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development on September 6, 2019, a bill (registration number 1052) on amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act on improving building standards was considered. As noted, the bill is intended to introduce in Ukraine the possibility of using and preferring the traditional method of regulation in modern Ukrainian construction. GNEU concluded with a series of technical comments and recommended that it be accepted in the first reading. Accordingly, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 of part one of the two articles of article 114 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Construction Standards to improve building standards for consideration in the first reading, to be adopted on a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u217	Thank you. Please register by faction: two for, two for, two for, one for. Spak Love Alexandrovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u218	I give the word to Vitalia Bezgin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u219	Vitaly Bezgin, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u220	Good afternoon, colleagues! We ask very much to support this bill on the basis and in general, because it is the introduction of a method of tradition that will allow us to invest in Ukraine and additional investments in construction, and finally turn our construction into something modern and not something that is subordinated to the old standards that were born not even in an independent country, but, in many cases, by 1992. We're stressing that it's the introduction of a method that doesn't kill an orderly method like that, but it just makes it a parametric dominant method to improve the situation and allow investors and builders to do their work professionally and modernly. We ask for support as a whole, because we consider the bill to be non-conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u221	Thank you. The word is given to Nastavajchenka Valentina Alexandrovich, faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u222	Thank you. Please pass the word to Andrew Puzichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u223	Andrew Puziyczuk, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u224	Puzichuk Andrey, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act on Improvements in Construction contains progressive positions. The key idea of the bill is to introduce a method of parametric regulation. This should significantly improve the quality of building standards, increase the investment attractiveness of the construction market as a whole, and improve the development of the sector. It provides for the setting of parameters that determine safety, functionality, and quality of the object. This will have a direct bearing on the quality of life and safety of the building’s inhabitants. I will note that this approach is widely used in developed countries. For Ukraine, it must also become a norm. The Fatherland faction will support the adoption of the bill on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u225	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u226	Thank you. Please pass the word to Bondar Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u227	Bondar Victor Vasilovich, faction. A member of Parliament for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u228	Thank you, Your Honor. An extremely important bill, our MP group will support it. If translated, there was a lot of technical talk about the essence of the bill, and it was hard for ordinary people to understand what it was about. I'm going to translate into simple human language. For builders, it will be much easier to design buildings, agree on construction, go through construction stages, and put these buildings into operation. In fact, it's an absolute improvement in life for Ukrainian builders, for construction companies, for those who do design, for those who do business in this field. So we're going to support an important bill, an interesting bill, it really makes the investment appeal of Ukraine completely different. Foreign construction companies will be able to come, make modern design, modern business centers, modern beautiful houses, home for people who are simple. And that's probably what the state has to do: simplify procedures, give new investment climate and give business in Ukraine the opportunity to get on its feet and stop handing out bribes that had to be distributed in order to accept the unfortunate documentation. Thank you. We'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u229	Thank you. Mikola Romanovich Veliovich, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u230	Please pass the word to Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u231	Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u232	Hello, everyone! I'd like to say hello to all the builders today. We have a day of construction in the Council. It is a great pleasure that this is one of the priorities of the new Council, and I know that there are many representatives of the builders, and today they are uniting the hall. And it's also very nice that on the basis of the adopted law developed by the government of Groysman, 6577, there are a lot of rules that are very progressive, but there are some safeguards that I would still like to consider during the second reading. There is a question, and that's why our faction will support this law in the first reading. And I would like to warn everyone that if we now consider this law in the first reading and in general, we are not going to be able to make any amendments to it that apply to corrupt fuses. On some matters alone, we will be disheartening our respectable builders. So I welcome you all: the elimination of the rations, the Building Standards Act, the only state electronic system in the area of construction -- I see that these are the priorities of our council today. Let's work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u233	Thank you. For reasons, the word is given to the Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, we support a new approach to building requirements, and we believe that this bill can be adopted both in the first reading and in general, because today we need to get rid of the extra corruption elements that usually apply when we agree on those or other documents. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been fighting for many years to ensure that the accessibility to any facility and building in our country of people with limited capabilities has always been taken into account. And here we have to stress separately that the right of access to any disabled object should also be enshrined in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u235	Thank you. The discussion is over, let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1052) amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act to improve construction standards. Are the National Deputies Ready to Vote? Please support and vote. [[13:32:23]] For 308. For -308 versus -0, hold on -13. Decision taken. The bill was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues, please tell me, can we consider it and vote in general? Is there a note? No, it's not. Okay. Then, according to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1052) amending the Ukrainian Construction Standards Act to improve construction standards. Please support and vote. [[13:33:16]] For 266 For 266, against 2, hold 52. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some legislative acts to improve administrative services in the area of construction and to create a single state electronic system in the area of construction (registration number 1081). I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:34:02]] For 263 For 263, versus 0, hold on to 50. Decision taken. The bill will be considered in a simplified procedure. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Schuljak Oleni Aleksyevni. Please give me four minutes, because the Committee will also be giving a speech by Schulak Olenna Alexiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u236	My colleagues, thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national deputies, really today in the Council of Construction Day, but I would like today to be the day of a virtuous builder. So today we're going to be looking at a bill (registration number 1081) amending some of the legislative acts to improve administrative services in the area of construction and to create a single state electronic system in the area of construction. Colleagues, we're going to be with you in a year and a half to celebrate the day -- 50 years from the day the first e-mail was sent. But in order to obtain a building permit today, investors from various cities in Ukraine have to come to Kiev, bring in piles of paper documents, get into reception days, and take hours just to submit documents to obtain permission. Today, all market participants, the building market used in various building processes, interact with more than twenty different data registers. All of these registers are very distinguished and do not provide for a predominant interaction. As I said, you need to get a statement with your feet, that is, your personal visit. And the data in these registers, they're very often duplicated and they're often out of date. The introduction in Ukraine of a single electronic system in construction, first of all, will make most of the construction processes transparent, accountable, and will cancel the need for investors from all over Ukraine to travel with papers to Kiev. The system will bring together all the building data, all the buildings, and all the market participants into a single information space. The introduction of an electronic client's office and public transparent access to all data will help overcome market corruption, create transparent conditions for investors. The system will also help to create a convenient and complete catalogue of all buildings in Ukraine and allow them to be effectively managed. The adoption of the bill will not only ensure shorter periods of administrative services, but also improve their quality, significantly reduce corruption and make the work of public authorities more transparent, accountable and public. And from the committee, I can also talk now, right? Please, from the committee. At a meeting of the Committee on Public Authority Organizations, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization on September 6, 19th, a bill was considered to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts on improving administrative services in the area of construction, as defined by the President as urgent. As noted, the bill's provisions are aimed at improving the quality of administrative services, reducing corruption risks and ensuring publicity, etc. GNEU concluded with a number of comments and suggestions. The board generally supported the bill and noted that the draft law could be adopted on the first reading as a basis. The Committee on Budget Affairs took into account the conclusions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and noted that the bill had a direct impact on government budget indicators. The Digital Transformation Committee supported and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a whole. The Ministry of Community and Territory Development supported the adoption of the bill as one that would increase Ukraine's position in the Doing Business ease rating. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part One, Part Two of Article 114 of the VU Rules, a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the procedures for the provision of administrative services in the area of construction and the creation of a single state electronic system in the area of construction (Registration No. 1081), as a result of the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u237	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Arsenic Oleg Alexiyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u238	Please give the word to Dundy Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u239	Please give the word to Dundy Oleg, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u240	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. You all know that State Architectural Control is one of the most corrupt in Ukraine. Bribes, corruption, rackets, shadow management -- this is how you can describe the activities of State Architecture and Building Control. In fact, it's a criminal group that uses the absolute opacity of this system. The only way to eliminate such a disgraceful phenomenon is by bringing this system into sunlight. And it's this bill that will make the State Architecture and Building Control transparent. Moreover, the introduction of this register systematizes information in the building area that is now in a frayed state. Using an electronic register will save considerable time and material resources for citizens and businesses. So I very much ask you, honourable national deputies, to support Bill 1087 on Electronic Register in Construction. Because this is our goal as national deputies, to simplify the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u241	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u242	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland welcomes this bill, it really shortens the deadlines for administrative services, increases the quality of these services, reduces the risks of corruption. But there are standards that don't exactly reduce corruption risks and actually increase them. So I'm going to ask the appropriate committee and deputies to work on it. For example, a colleague offered in part three of article 69 of the Code of Air, article 69 of the Ukrainian Air Code, offers the need to agree with airport operators of civil or military administrations. I would like to remind you that the Ministry of Infrastructure orders to determine the radius of the respective airports. For example, for class A airports, B airports, B airports, B and G, that's 50 kilometers. For "D" and "E" classes it's 25 kilometers, for helicopters it's 12. Now imagine what will happen within Kiev and Zitomir when we have two airports. That is, there is another body that has to agree with the city’s documentation. I think I need to be more specific about what they're entitled to, more clearly determining what is a suburban territory and making sure that we don't create another corrupt feed. And allowing communities to decentralize decision-making when they approve general plans, detailed salaries, and their word should be the main one. Because we're with you, colleagues, for decentralization. We walked away from people. And people live in the right communities. Let us therefore vote in the first reading. But I ask those who will work on the committee to clearly identify the agreements that are to take place by airport operators so that we do not create a corrupt feed and abuse their official government duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u243	Thank you. Princely Nikola Leonidovich, faction of European Solidarity, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u244	Thank you. Please pass the word to your colleague Maxim Savrasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u245	Maxim Saurasov, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u246	Hello again, fellows! We continue the day of the great good builder. This law is now very useful and very useful to the builders who are now working throughout our country. But I'd like to say again that we don't have to take it in general right now. There are standards that need to be worked out. There are situations that need to be reviewed and there are things to work on. Because this law will now appear, and all the builders will start learning about it. Those who have not taken part in its development will have many questions. One of these is a warning. The bill contains standards for creating, filling and introducing an electronic system. Making it effective from the date of publication can lead to the inconvenient and inconvenient introduction and operation of the electronic system. So there is a system that needs to be filled. But if the law goes into effect the next day, as stated in the law, after its promulgation, it will not be anything to fill that law. The necessary "transitional positions" is a transitional period of validity for the qualitative and effective implementation of its standards. Our faction will support it, but only in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u247	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future. This is the last speech, and then there'll be a vote. And Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u248	Thank you. Please pass the word to Saucuk Oksani.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u249	Please turn on Savichuk Oksani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u250	Dear colleagues, look, after carefully reading this bill, we think it's the right course of thought to move forward in a transparent grant of permits and registration of documents for construction. But there's one moment I'm worried about. And I think he'll be worried about all the local self-government. Because in the Ukrainian Act on Architecture, in article 14, we cancel the authorization of the chief architect to sign documents that are given in the historic part of the city. So I still think that this law needs to be worked out, that it needs to be amended, and that it needs to be adopted in the next reading, but with further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u251	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u252	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Our faction will support this bill, but only on the first reading did much talk today about state architectural control. Well, it's an office that, if it were to be eliminated at all, I think it would only make our citizens' lives easier and, in general, the work of our builders. But I'd like to draw attention to two more of these little details. Today, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I'm addressing you. You put this bill to a vote in short. consider it as a reduced procedure. I want to remind you of article 113 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, part three, which does not allow consideration of the bill by a simplified procedure with more than 100 articles or paragraphs. In this bill more than 100 articles or paragraphs, and we were obliged to consider it in accordance with the Rules in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u253	Thank you. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1081) amending certain legislative acts to improve the procedure for the provision of administrative services in the area of construction and the creation of a single state electronic system in the area of construction. Please support and vote. [[13:47:31]] For 306 Thank you. For -306, versus -0, held four. Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the second reading of the bill (registration number 1081) on amending certain legislative acts to improve the procedure for the provision of administrative services in the area of construction and the establishment of a single state electronic system in the area of construction. Please support and vote. [[13:48:19]] For 261 For 261, versus 0, hold on to 41. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services (registration 1085) and alternative 1085-1. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. [[13:49:02]] For 259. For 259, versus 1, hold on to 39. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u254	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I'm the author of this bill, I brought it to the Supreme Council. And in two words, I'll pass it on. This is about long-awaited markets, long-awaited by consumers of financial services to change existing legislation that would allow consumers to protect financial services to the full. These are things that, starting with a small text in credit contracts or deposit contracts, banks then condemn consumers or their counterparties with huge sums and end up with a certain regulation of advertising these services because advertising these services requires more stringent government regulation. In addition, we're fortifying the authority of the public authorities, this is the National Bank of Ukraine, the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, and we're talking about the State Bank of Ukraine, and we're talking about the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets, and we're talking about the State Service until you and I have a decision to make on another bill that we're also in the agenda. Thus, we entrust them with the task of verifying the enforcement of legislation by the entities involved in this market, as well as drawing them to account in the event of a violation. As for the procedure for considering this bill by the committee and the decision taken as a result of this consideration, we will report separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u255	Thank you. According to Bill 1085-1, the word for the report is given to Vladina Darya Artemovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u256	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Bill 1085-1 on amending certain legislation on the protection of the rights of consumers of financial services is brought to your attention. Unfortunately, colleagues, today we have this situation where 70, even more, percentages of the population of Ukraine do not trust banks or financial institutions. For example, in the Czech Republic and in some other countries, banks trust about 80 percent or more of the population. In Ukraine, small businesses and the population prefer to stay away from the banking market, leading to a decline. The country’s economy is losing its resources without the proper functioning of the sector. Building a population trust at 80 percent isn't that easy, but it's not as difficult as we think. The left hand side of the financial services market is one of the drivers of business and economic development, that is, lending. Once again, unfortunately, we have this picture today when banking institutions, financial institutions hide from consumers the real lending rate. So they promise almost zero bets, but they forget to mention large commissions for extradition and monthly commissions. As a result, the real interest rate increases. Addressing consumer distrust of banks and other financial institutions and ensuring the normal functioning of the market depends on understanding that restoring trust is a multi-stage way. The President of Ukraine and the entire "Services of the People" team are starting to develop, and the key aspect, one of the key aspects, is the availability of credit. Bill 1085-1 is the first step towards building an accessible, honest and transparent credit system. It foresees the imposition of the responsibility of financial institutions for violating consumer rights and expanding the concept of general spending on consumer credit by including all consumer spending, including additional and related services from third parties, and the introduction of the same rules for banks and non-bank institutions in the area of financial services advertising. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u257	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy of the Dubinsky Alexandre Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u258	Honorable Presidium, honourable colleagues, Law 1085 is very important to us, because it sets up what we promised during the pre-election campaign -- consumer protection. Consumers in this case are financial services. Its main feature is that banks, after banks, insurance companies, lysing companies, factoring companies, any companies that provide services to private individuals, will finally have to give their customers information about the full cost of services. So it's both interest rates and commissions, and, above all, the cost of notarial services, the cost of insurance services, the cost of additional services is also, the cost of services when you pay all the bills. This was a very controversial norm, which we discussed as part of the working groups that took place around this bill. And for me, you know, it was a very strange situation when there were about 50 people on the committee who were very interested in the laws on protection of consumers of financial services, and they all wanted banks not to provide comprehensive information about the total cost of financial services. This is due to the fact that very often, for example, insurance services or commission services can reach up to 50 percent of the cost of credit, or the cost of financial services. That's why we've been very insistent on this issue, and all the charges have been answered no, and now this law provides a very high degree of protection to consumers of financial services, and I'm very pleased that we've developed it, and now we're presenting it to you. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u259	Thank you, Alexander Anatolyovich. Please register with factions: two in, two in. Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u260	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Olga Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u261	Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk, "Slut of the People" party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u262	Thank you, colleagues. Today is not just the day of the builder, but also the day of the financier (in paws) of the banking, financial institutions and non-banking institutions, because previously these institutions have been able to abuse, hide information, and now everything will be transparent, the person will come and see how much a loan or some other kind of financial service is going to cost. So this is a celebration I've been looking for, not for financial institutions, but for consumers. Now all the advertising is going to take place on an equal footing, and you're going to be familiar with it. In addition, I must point out that the adoption of this bill is a guarantee of our continued cooperation with international organizations, one of the requirements of the IMF and other institutions. So I strongly support the adoption of this bill, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u263	Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u264	Please pass the word Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u265	Irina Stepanovna Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u266	Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The "European Solidarity" faction will no doubt support this bill. Here, colleagues from the People's Service said that this was the first step in protecting the rights of consumers of financial services. That's step four. Because such bills on reform and on the recovery of the financial sector were proposed by the Prašenka team. The four were adopted by the previous eight, the two bills that you'll be considering in the near future, today is the complete play that our team did on the eighth call. Which is very important. Today, there is no special body authorized to protect the rights of consumers. In the 11th year, these powers were excluded from the powers of the State. What the colleagues didn't say, presenting now one and the other bills. It is important to introduce administrative responsibility to financial institutions if they provide, in their contract, an electronic or written agreement with the consumer of financial services, without showing, without providing, in a timely manner, the consumer of financial services defined by the legislation of full scope – which services, which fines, which additional payments the consumer of financial services should provide. That's why "European Solidarity" will, of course, support this bill. But please and warn colleagues from the majority, it must be adopted at the same time as Bill 1069, it is now registered under a new issue, it is a bill on the consolidation of public service regulation, financial services, so-called SPLIT. What's the point? Today there are three financial services regulators. This bill brings them down to two. It'll be National.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u267	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u268	Two regulators will remain: the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. This bill is actually going to bring it down to two regulators. If we don't accept that second bill in pairs with this, there's going to be an uncertain situation: we're going to have three regulators again, and we're going to have these powers on them and they're going to be spoiled. I therefore call for support for this draft law, which has worked with risk alone, and it is imperative that we adopt Bill 1069.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u269	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u270	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, our faction of the Opposition Platform for Life will support this bill. But again, what Irina Stepanovna said to make us approach this issue in a comprehensive manner. Because the bill so-called SPLIT, it was still under consideration in the past summons, and as far as I know, there are many references and insurance companies in Ukraine that have a different position to approach the institutions and organizations that work in this market with a view to adopting a bill that is considered. So three regulators are definitely a lot. Does it make sense to concentrate all these regulatory functions at the National Bank of Ukraine? We have a lot of questions today to ask the National Bank of Ukraine in general, and about the sovereign domestic debt in relation to interest on speculative matters. And we support the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to find out all of these underwater and underwater flows of the National Bank, and who specifically exploited Ukrainian citizens. Because, if you know, interest on government loans is all paid from the state budget of Ukraine, that is, by our citizens. At such a course, virtually all the speculators of the world today make money on Ukraine’s budget, let alone how these worn-out bills and many other things were eliminated. Once again, it's billions and billions of dollars, and we see what a wonderful life there is in previous leaders of the National Bank of Ukraine, and where they spend their "golds" times. So we need to put order in this issue, and we need to approach the bills carefully to take into account the interests of both entrepreneurs and regulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u271	Thank you. The word is given to Lubinz Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u272	Dear colleagues, well, indeed, the parliamentary group "For the Future" will support this bill, we are ready to vote in the first reading. We believe that this bill will, indeed, improve people's confidence in financial institutions, in banks, in all others who provide financial services. The main thing is that this bill obliges to provide complete information and does not have a mechanism to hide the services of third parties. Remember, all the citizens who took credit give them the opportunity to read the treaty, and at the end of the day, a very small letter that virtually no one reads is hidden there, let's say, conditions are much worse for people, and it's because of these conditions that people's trust in banking institutions has worsened. But we want to point out that this bill empowers three institutions, namely: The National Bank of Ukraine, the National Securities and Stock Market Commission and the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Financial Services Markets. So we don't understand why if we're adopting a bill that's complex, very correct, yet the logic of our authority is that we're deregulation that we're reducing pressure, including on financial institutions, why are we leaving three state institutions that are doing the same thing? Is it not possible to identify one that will deal with this issue? Because if you do three, you probably don't do one system. And the main thing is, if there are excesses, let's say, authority in the field of control, who will be responsible? One government regulator will say, we've checked, now let him check the other. So we're going to run around, and we don't support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u273	Let me finish. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u274	I'll finish. Indeed, we want this to be settled in the second issue, and then we are ready to vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u275	Thank you. We continue the session for 15 minutes, pending consideration of the matter. Belkova Olga, MP. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u276	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would still ask our faction to give two minutes, like the rest of the factions. Dear colleagues, at last we came to the question of protection, let's say a traditional Ukrainian, small Ukrainian, not only bankers, not just MPs, but people who are now interacting with financial institutions in one way or another. These are both banks and insurance companies and so on. And those of you who start working later on the committees that deal with any economic issues, you start getting calls from citizens who will tell them that they've been fooled, that they've been misled, that they haven't been given all the information. And it was this Law 1085-1 that was complemented by this committee after numerous discussions with a previous cadence, where there was always someone who wanted to pause the disclosure of consumer information. This same law gives clear instructions that from now on there are 3 regulators really, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u277	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u278	The SPLIT Act will be passed in any of its versions, then there will be more precision about who regulates insurance companies, who regulates banking activities, who regulates other financial institutions, including pawnbrokers and so on. I think we blamed our citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u279	Ladies and gentlemen, let's have a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u280	Two minutes, I asked for two minutes like the rest of the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u281	It's a motive. No, look, two minutes, two minutes, two minutes. Next from motive, there's a minute, unfortunately. I understand, but unfortunately, there's a minute, colleagues. Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u282	Thank you. We plan to support it in the first reading and we will make specific amendments that specify the responsibility of specific regulators for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u283	Thank you. Tzabal Volodymir Volodymyrovich, faction of the Voice. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, now that a Ukrainian citizen is going to a supermarket to buy products, his rights are more protected than when he goes after a financial product to a banking institution. This is wrong because we all know that financial products are very complex things where consumer rights are to be much more protected. We all remember 2008-2009, the crisis, when, because of the issue of large amounts of loans that people didn't understand, we almost got to the collapse of the financial system. And if people knew they were taking what they were selling, then there would be no such terrible situation. And that's why we need to protect the rights of consumers of financial services. And the last thing I'm going to say is that the indirect effect of this law is to reduce the risk of credit portfolios, and banks will also become beneficiaries of this law. And so are the loan rates.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u285	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u286	The beneficiary will also become the population for which credit rates will decrease because banks will be in a better financial situation. That's why the Voice faction supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u287	Danilo the Gethmans is one minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u288	I want to pay attention to my esteemed colleagues, why three regulators. Three regulators because, although we are necessarily in favour of the SPLIT Act, but SPLIT is a very long process, it is a year yet, and one way or another, three regulators will exist. So this is a transitional period of time that we should also take into account in this law. And given the unprecedented support of the hall, let's support it as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-11-m0.u289	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on that alternative bill that was supported by the committee, namely 1085-1. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1085-1) amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. Please support and vote. [[14:09:58]] For 309 For -309, versus -0, hold on to -3. Decision taken. Thank you. Please tell me, can we consider it as a whole? No, I'm good. Then, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules, I put to the vote the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1085/1) on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to protect the rights of consumers of financial services. Please support and vote. [[14:10:45]] For 263 For 263, against 3, hold 42. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I remind you, the evening session will begin at 4:00. Please don't be late.
