ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please take up jobs. So, if you'd like to prepare for your registration, please have your registration. Please. [[10:03:33]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, today is the birthday of our friends and brothers. This is Yuri Mikolaiovich Berezi's birthday. Let's welcome our friend! Mr. Yuri, welcome! [[Applause]] Birthday at Yuri Anatolyovich Didenko Welcome! [[Applause]] Mikoli Volodymyrovich Lušnjak. Welcome! [[Applause]] And John Ivanovich Melniczuk. Hello! [[Applause]] Welcome! Your birthday is on such a historic week for Ukraine. We wish each of you success, health, and our common victory. And I want to remind you that today we have an hour of questions to the government. And we're starting an hour of questions to the government, reminding us of our rules. The government today will be represented by the Deputy Justice Minister, Helen Sukmanov, then by questions from MPs, 25 minutes, and questions from national MPs. And I invite you to the rostrum of Ukraine's First Deputy Minister of Justice, Olen Valeriev Sukmanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, national deputies, members of the government, all present! My talk today about what our future will be with you, how and where we will live tomorrow. Yes, my talk about children, our care for them, and our responsible parenting. The Ministry of Justice and Government have identified the needs of children as one of the key tasks of their work. And one of the most successful projects in this field has been our joint work with you on the adoption of two packets of "No Strange Kids." And today I am proud to report the results of our work together with you. These laws, which introduced the following restrictions: the ban on driving and the ban on crossing the border to alimony payers -- so far we have more than 130,000 alimony payers to whom the ban is applied. Economic fines: between 20 and 50 percent of the amount owed. And 62,000 decisions about imposing economic sanctions are just fines, I'm not talking about alimony, we have today. Socially beneficial work. 124 alimony payers were directed to socially beneficial jobs. And the confiscation and the realisation of assets, the limitations of will up to two years. As a result, today we have 4.6 billion dollars paid for more than half a million Ukrainian children. I want to emphasize this again: 4.6 billion dollars for the benefit of more than half a million Ukrainian children. And that figure is twice that last year. What we are proposing today with our colleagues from the government and with international partners. Yesterday, at a meeting of the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, a bill was drafted by the Ministry of Justice to amend certain laws of Ukraine to create favourable conditions for the delivery of services related to the birth of a child, the so-called e-minor project. The project will enable parents to obtain a complete set of nine services, according to one statement. Nine services. What services are these: national registration of a child born; registration of the place of residence of the child born; appointment of assistance for the birth of a child; registration of a child born in an electronic health system; registration of a tax payer in the State Register; registration in a demographic register; identification of the birth of a child if the parents are not in a registered marriage; identification of the child’s nationality in Ukraine. The adoption of this law will allow our children’s parents to simplify their lives as much as possible. This will reduce the number of necessary visits to public authorities from ten to zero, that is, no visits to the public authority. This will reduce the number of document submissions and the appropriate help to obtain these services from 33 to one. Just think: Instead of 33 documents, there is only one statement. The possibility of contacting immediately in the maternity home, the Administrative Services Centre, the possibility of calling online or via mail. And I would like to emphasize that serving nine in one is free. I can give examples of other countries. Thus, a similar system of service is established in Canada and Serbia. New Zealand and Australia also have a similar system, but three in one. The government of Ukraine offers nine services per application. So what we have already accomplished is that responsible parenting becomes a standard for all Ukrainians. One: the baby's package. This is a large-scale government project that our colleagues in Minnesota have been driving. Since September 1, 2018, nearly ninety - five thousand people have received “the package of the baby. ” Since January 1, 2019, this figure has made up almost nineteen thousand people, so we see a positive trend. In order to improve the content of the package, a monitoring of responses and suggestions from parents was carried out. Mother's choice is to have a baby package either at the birth of a child or at the birth certificate. Moreover, it is planned to involve social workers in solving mother’s problems if she is in a maternity home under difficult living conditions. Along with our international partners with UNICEF, we conducted a deep interview -- and improved it, and changed the contents of the baby package. Next thing you know, a municipal nanny. Reparation for child service for up to three years. It is planned that compensation will be paid in the amount of one living minimum, which is effective on January 1st of the year, which is now 1 thousand 626 dollars per child. In order to obtain compensation for municipal care, parents simply have to make an agreement between them and municipal caregivers. The third is the introduction of tax benefits for conscientious parents. The second package of foreign children's laws increases the number of reasons for getting a tax discount from parents who pay for their children's education. A tax discount is the amount that reduces the citizen's income tax in connection with the child's education. The size of the tax deduction is about 18 percent of the amount paid. Before the discount was paid in vocational and higher education institutions, from now on the tax rate also includes tuition fees in preschools, out-of-school institutions, and secondary education. Colleagues, I would like to thank you for supporting our legislative initiatives, legislative initiatives by the government and Minsk to make our children more secure with you, and parenting in Ukraine more responsible. And I want to tell you that tomorrow we're going to be sitting in front of the TV set, under warm diapers, and our kids are going to be sitting in this session room, and what decisions they're going to make, how they're going to be fair and balanced, is up to us today. And I want to finish my speech with the words of Anton Makarenko's famous teacher, who said that our children are our age. Good parenting is a happy old age. Bad parenting is our grief, our tears, and our guilt toward others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u3	Thank you. And, colleagues, now, I remind you, questions from the MP factions. So I ask all the factions who intend to participate in the discussion and ask the government a loud question, please record. From the faction of "Fatherishkina" – Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u4	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear government officials, I would no doubt have a question either to the Prime Minister or to the Minister of Energy, but who could have answered that question. For the first time in all of Ukraine's history, in 27 years, it was allowed to export its own gas overseas. To that end, it was decided to double the tariff for entry into the export pipe. Don't you understand that if the cost of gas that's being extracted in Ukraine that's coming from abroad, that difference is tens of a percent, let's put it mildly? Who benefits from this, you can call a particular firm and a person who is behind the export of Ukrainian gas production abroad in conditions of a total increase in gas prices and tariffs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u5	Good day, distinguished national MPs, indeed, during the previous week was the first time in the form of an experiment that Ukrainian gas was exported outside the borders of Ukraine. But I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Law on the Natural Gas Market is in force today and the authority to determine the cost of entering the pipe, also the transport tariff, and also the cost of the tariff to get out of the Ukrainian pipeline is a direct mandate of an independent regulator, i.e. the NCREKP. So these questions are on the plane, and I think your question is going to be re-addressed, it's going to be formulated as a parliamentary request, and it's going to be re-addressed directly to the body that has the right authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u6	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Igor Shurma is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u7	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Despite the absence of Vladimir Borisovich, I ask questions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. He took full responsibility for the activities of the MOH. And I'm very pleased, because that's what's starting to happen. The question is as follows. On December 18th, the Board of Hearts held the election of the Director. Toduro's Boris Mikhailovich won by unanimity. Since then, documents have been submitted within a period of five days according to current legislation. He passed the monthly term of special inspection without notice. And today there is a contract to sign with him. The question to Vladimir Borisovich: Volodymyr Borisovich, do you know that this contract is on the table for two weeks with Deputy Minister Linchevsky, the one who said that everyone would die without a chance? A two-week contract is and is not signed. I have a call to you, Prime Minister: please state the order, intervene, and have them sign the contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u8	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u9	Why? The answer is, why does today's deputy minister, despite all the legislative requirements, hold this contract for two weeks, despite the fact that there is absolutely no comment on the winner, does he not sign and conclude the agreement? Todurov really saves people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u10	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! Thank you for the very specific question, we are taking him to work. And in accordance with the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, you will receive a specific official answer to that question. We've taken that into consideration, your request.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Missy Vladimir is handing Valery to Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u12	Thank you. I have a question for the government. And I think it concerns all Ukrainians today. There's official information from the government that between 7 million and 9 million Ukrainians are working temporarily abroad, and they're still working from about 3 to 5 abroad. Labour migration has gained considerable size, and today we are losing the country in fact. There will be no economic potential unless we stop labour migration. And there's a lot of work to be done. I want to ask the government: do you understand the problem of labour migration? That's the first question. And the second. What does the government do to stop labour migration and to make new jobs? How many jobs are planned this year for Ukrainians? How do you plan to deal with this problem? And how are you going to give the Ukrainians a future to work in their own country instead of going to earn money all over the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u13	Please, Revie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u14	Dear National Deputy Pisarenko, the problem you have touched is very painful for both our country and our neighbors. In neighbouring Lithuania, despite an average salary of 850 euros, more than 1 million out of 3.5 million people in Lithuania have gone abroad. A similar problem exists in Poland, where more than a million Poles have left for other countries of the European Union. Of course, the first thing that motivates people to leave, and not only in our country, is the desire to get more wages. That's the first one. Secondly, it's a desire to realize yourself, your abilities, your talents where the best conditions are created for this. Of course, this is directly related to the number and quality of jobs. The only thing I can say is that it's not the government that creates jobs. Jobs create businesses, create entrepreneurs, create people who, by their work, their minds, and their hands, give jobs to others. And it is the duty of the government to create conditions for these people to feel protected. I will not now list those laws that the Supreme Council of Government has adopted to protect entrepreneurs in order to protect businesses in Ukraine. But I think this list would be long enough. But as for the social component, I want to say and remind you that we have a big problem with responsibility, including business, for the social problems of our citizens. Only a reduction in the sole social contribution in 2016 led to a reduction in income from a single social contribution of 40 percent. And there are serious problems in this regard, both with pension insurance and with the provision of social protection for our workers. So this complex problem we're going to solve with you, so that our people don't go to work, and we're going to work at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Olenna Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u16	The Self-Help faction asks the government a very clear question and asks a very specific answer. Please tell me the date on which the government will inform the citizens of Ukraine about the work of the Energy Efficiency Fund and what package of documents people need to prepare to use the 3rd and 2 billion dollars allocated to the Energy Efficiency Fund in the budget for two years, as well as the 50 million euros provided to Ukraine by the European Union? And the second. When will the government offer Parliament an offer, how will it bring water and heat out of the crisis and not translate energy reform into local self-government? Because everyone today knows that the government has simply failed to perform its function and has not given the water - and - heat - energy industry the opportunity to use a special power market service provider, and has driven them into a frenzy of damage today because the new electricity prices have entered on January 1st for water - and - heat power, but water and heat, everyone understands that so quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds. You're done, aren't you? Add 30 seconds. Wait. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u18	Since January 1, a new price for electricity has entered into force. But everyone knows that water and heat tariffs don't change so fast, it takes time. These are direct damage to both the owners and the local self - government. The government offers nothing to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u19	Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u20	First of all, honourable national MPs, I'll start with the Energy Efficiency Fund. And once again, I would like to thank you for all the laws that have been passed in this room. And about the Energy Efficiency Fund, and about the energy efficiency of buildings, about the commercial accounting of residential services that are now being implemented under the Common Property Act, which created the consumer foundation, which can receive grants not only from the State, but also from international partners, and also a system that deals with technical and financial assistance. About the fund's launch. The law was passed, the government implemented all the regulations for the Fund to be launched. Today, the Supervisory Board, a competition, two government representatives entered, two independent representatives. And now we're expecting the final member of the European Union to be on the Supervisory Board, we already know who that is. But I will not announce until the contract is signed directly. There is also a multidonor fund that will co-finance 50 by 50 with the State Energy Efficiency Fund every virtually modernization in every multi-story building. Today, there is a selection for the Fund's directorate, and it's already an independent government procedure, because this selection is organized by the Supervisory Board. And now there is, so to speak, selection for four posts: the Fund’s director, the technical director, the financial director, and the head of the audit service. But we did not stop; we worked in parallel before the Supervisory Board took up its duties, and we started the process. Also now, 15 pilot projects have been launched in all regions of Ukraine, various surfaces, different number of approaches, different numbers of residents, in order to complete the Fund’s procedure. The process of building certification has been started, and the first OSBB has already received the first European model certificates, and Ukraine today can show the state of the hedge fund and what recommendations need to be made for modernisation. There are the first 300 energy auditors in an independent Ukraine, which is 28 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u21	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u22	For the first time, there were energy auditors who carried out the work. So I think that in the first quarter there should be a fund running, we have support today not 50, but 100 million euros of the European Union. The donor coordination board, which was set up on energy efficiency reform and the Energy Efficiency Fund, approved grant policy, and grant policy today says that the first 300 projects will receive 50 percent of the compensation for energy audits, for project work, for energy service contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u23	Fifteen more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u24	For energy service contracts, for equipment and for jobs, as well as from the German government, 20 per cent for buildings where the number of subsidies exceeds 50 per cent. So, in principle, we're ready to raise awareness both on the committee and separately on the Supreme Council in this direction. As far as the law is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u25	Thank you, thank you, thank you, dear colleague. There are still a lot of questions from the deputies and factions, so I'd like to ask you to invest in the British Parliament, and your fellow ministers are in the moment. Please, here's a question from Peter Dustock's Block. Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u26	Good day, Reverend Irina Volodymyr, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government! It is known that the construction of human capital is based on three very important things: quality education, quality medical services, and third, well-being infrastructure. That's why I have a third question for Mr. Vladimir Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure. Mr. Secretary, can you at times personally check what's going on along the way? I looked at you on Facebook, I think it's a normal social network, I even made a video. I have this request that you just don't manipulate it: you can check where and at what intervals we spent our money because Parliament voted for 40 billion dollars, and which have already turned into solid pits? Please, it's very important that along the way, there are also boards that are written about the roads, about the government, and about the Supreme Council that allocates these funds. Please take this under your control, and if you find that there is an incompatibility, take it to one person.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u27	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u28	If possible, take administrative action to some, and pass on criminal responsibility to others. People need to know, if we vote for money, we set out for roads, people have to have quality infrastructure. Thank you for your understanding and for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u29	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your active political position. Unfortunately, the government is not Hogwarts, we don't have black sticks to repair all roads in Ukraine that haven't been repaired for decades. During the cadences of the government of Yatsenuk and Groysman, more than 7,000 miles [7,000 km] of roads were rebuilt, all of which pass through the winter in perfect condition. We're checking all the reconstructed paths twice a year. Those roads that pass through the winter and have not been repaired for decades certainly do not improve. We've allocated additional funds this year for the emergency repair of the Odessa-Kiev and Kiev-Chop routes. Above all, we continue to build, and we thank you very much for an active position in the vote for the road fund, which proved its effectiveness, that all regions, each area, build its own roads. But once again we remind ourselves that during the five - year work of the road fund, we will rebuild highways that connect the district centers and set order on the main central highways of each area, no more. For all roads to take place, funding must be at least 200 billion dollars compared to Poland. And to recover from scratch, at least 300 billion dollars a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u31	Thank you for your answer. And please, the next question is Sergey Shahov of the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u32	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Dear colleagues, please tell me who should be responsible for today's Suprunian genocide by the Ministry of Health? The outbreak of measles is 72,000 people who have suffered from measles since 2017, 22,000 children, and 27 deaths. Tuberculosis, AIDS. Vaccination is not enough. In all, 36 percent were vaccinated by Ukrainians. Please tell me, who will be responsible for this? My two children also had measles. This applies to every time you watch a child die! And I was also approached by the scribes on the point that there would now be no nurse in the schools. Imagine! It's the killing of Ukrainian children! No one has ever replied that in September no culprits were found who poisoned their children in the classrooms. I have a question: Please tell me when it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u33	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u34	When will this Wakhanalia in the Ministry of Health end today? What has been done to stop the epidemic from happening? And who today will answer that we do not have a Ukrainian minister of health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u35	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I think in any case of an epidemiological threat, the only way to do it is to do it. I made the vaccination myself, and I recommend it to everyone. On all other matters. [[Applause]] On all other questions, I propose that this be formulated as a parliamentary request, and I think that the Ministry of Health and the government will prepare the answer. It's about water canals. Alan Valerian, I'd like to answer you. When laws are being prepared and passed in the Supreme Council, I would still like to have the government's opinion on the launching of a process in the profile committees. The government warned, and the Ministry of Regional Development and Housing specifically said that water canals are now available. Watercolors are currently running investment programs, but unfortunately today they don't have any advance payments to make a subscription at the start of the market. And I'd like to address the national MPs. I thank you for considering and putting into order the daily draft of Law 9406, which deals with this issue and allows you to practically provide water services in such a way that you do not charge the local budget or the water canal budget directly, so to speak. So the request: for the next plenary week, the Law 9406 included in the agenda, it is very important for the entire water supply and water supply sector, as well as the heat supply enterprises, and I ask that you put it in the agenda, there is support in the hall today. And I would ask him to vote in the next sessional week and close the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u37	Thank you. And please, the next question from the Radical Party, Mr. Mosiyczuk, will ask. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u38	Of course, I wanted to speak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who unfortunately is missing. As for the absence of a representative of the MOH, the situation is clear. Here was just a question about the crust epidemic, so I want to inform the government that the crust outbreak is already in the Ministry of Health: three workers are ill. Do you have any idea what's going on in the country? In Zaporozhye flashes, in Kiev, seven people were killed. In the United States, 20 people became ill — an emergency was reported. Dear government officials, the question is very simple: when will the Minister of Health be introduced into the Parliamentary Hall? Stop bullying the Ukrainians! Nana from Nela Petrovna's Reef couldn't have caused a two-hour rush in Poltashland. Dear government officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u39	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u40	Do something, because if this goes on, and you translate the answers from one vice-premier to another on the health issue, the attitude towards you will be even worse than the attitude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u41	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u42	Dear National MPs, I am well aware of the state of health in Ukraine as a whole today. But you yourself are well aware that this is not the result of today’s specific health - care reforms, as a result of the fact that in 27 years this system has been brought to its full - time, complete disaster. And you know today that two years ago, there were no drugs in hospitals, there were no FAPs, there was no access to rural medicine at all. And only in the last four years have real changes started in this direction, starting with the health reform system that she voted for -- and thank you for that -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was our joint decision to take the path of reforming the health system and to move on it, completing the initiatives of President Peter Poroshenko of Ukraine to bring about order in rural medicine, to build a new system of principles, the modern system of rural medicine. So, honourable national MPs, today we have an absolute goal with you -- to bring about the health system and ultimately to ensure that the crazed funds that have been allocated to the health system every year -- this year is 90 billion, and each year they have been allocated -- do not end up in the pockets of the pharmaceutical mafia and the disgruntled officials, but to get to a human being, to a doctor, to a rural health infrastructure, and finally people have felt the systemic approach and change for better in this environment. It's about a crust epidemic. We have legislation in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u43	15 seconds. 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u44	We have valid legislation, we have a very clear framework and criteria when an epidemic is declared, and we are operating today within the framework of actual legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u45	Thank you. Please don't interrupt our esteemed ministers. And the last question in this block. From the People's Front faction, please, Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u46	Dear members of the government! Taras Kremen, People's Front. I would ask you to pay attention to the three painful problems of Santa Claus, which we should be dealing with in the near future. The first question relates to the fact that there are four hospital districts approved under the Cabinet’s decree, but unfortunately, due to the emergency condition of the South Bank Bridge, we now have the situation that Mikolaiyivski, Berezanski, Ochakovsky regions may be cut off from quality medical services. I was approached by the head of the Black Sea OTG, Andrew Dmitrenko, who is the head of the initiative group, and he asks for this determination to be reviewed and yet to add another hospital district in connection with the emergency situation of the South Bank Bridge. The second question is the emergency situation of the Novobus School, the city of the New Bug of the Mikolai region, which collapsed two years ago and, unfortunately, is still in an emergency. Please take control of the allocation of funds through the State Regional Development Fund. And the third question is short. In view of the fact that Santa had reached ten areas in which the state of war had been declared.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u47	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u48	Teachers and doctors have debts for December, January, and February. Please pay attention and respond to existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u49	Teeth, right? Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u50	First of all, I would like to talk about infrastructure projects and the subsidies that the Supreme Council is taking today to channel funds to the regional development fund and to the subsidies of the united territorial communities and to support schools. And the reconstruction at the Novobus School, which needs this reconstruction in general, I know that there's a project there. I think it's going to be separate, in principle, talking to the head of the administration of the Mikolai district to be able to get it to the regional development fund and to be able to do it. I'd like to point out that now 70 percent of the regional project development fund is in education. They're preschools, they're schools, and they're resilient institutions. And I think we need to look directly at the quality of the project in order to figure out when we're reconstructing whether it really meets the needs of today's new educational space and the New Ukrainian School. On the issue of wage provision for teachers and medical professionals in the territory of the united territorial communities, where no elections were made in connection with the introduction of the Military Status Act. A bill has now been submitted to the Supreme Council - changes to Ukraine's budget in order to do so. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u51	9476, which deals with this issue, and the funds that were provided for the united communities on which the responsibility for delegated powers in education and health facilities rests, return to the district budgets to secure payment. But on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance has approached payments to close this problem until the resolution of this bill in the Supreme Council. I appeal to all national deputies to vote urgently on these changes to the budget in order to regulate all 43 non-electoral communities and to allow district administrations, district budgets, both in education and in health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u52	Thank you. So it's a faction question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u53	There was another question about the hospital districts, by creation. We immediately talked about the fact that yes, of course, there is a formal criterion to be met by the hospital district and the formation of the hospital districts in the area. But we've also talked about how we should run these systems, and if we can see in places that there are problems and difficulties, we're ready to react quickly. But there is an appropriate procedure where local self - government and district government authorities should cooperate very well right now, because it is the district government that is bringing to the government’s attention, the Ministry of Health’s proposals for the establishment of hospital districts or changes in their borders, or changes in the set. That's why I, we've taken this matter up, but of course it's a good thing that there's an appropriate initiative group, we're going to be waiting for the results of this group's work, and together with the district government, we're going to be waiting for official proposals to change the boundaries or change the number of hospital districts in the Mikolai district.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u54	Thank you. So the factions' questions are complete. Now, 20 minutes is a question from the national MPs. And I'm asking you to do the recording. Please. Please sign up for the questions in person. Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich. Please pass the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u55	Please pass the word to your colleague Zarzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u56	Good afternoon. Unfortunately, I don't see Mr. Nasalik here today. And I don't know if anyone can answer that question, but I really want to hear the answer. When will a major and real reform of Ukraine’s coal sector be proposed? When will the final debt be paid to miners, especially miners of the state-owned Selidivwowiel company, the state-owned firm of South London and other state-owned enterprises? Because turns from miners come from every corner of Ukraine, they're government mines. Sadly, the problem is not solved and the coal industry continues to be destroyed. We don't see any modernization, no energy dependency in the actions of power right now. Please answer with specific lines. Because they don't have any credit cards from the Department of Profiles anymore. They don't have deputies or employees of government coal companies. We really want specific dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u57	The honourable national MP, your question, really, it's quite complex and complex. I'm going to start with a social issue that concerns coal workers the most is the repayment of debt from wages. They're accumulating today. the accumulated public budget, which totals more than 400 million dollars. I think today, well, more faithfully by Monday it's going to be a materialized decision made by the government, about how the budget is allocated, and they're going to be directed to miners. And so it's practically going to be now that the debt is almost completely closed. As far as reforming the field is concerned. Yes, the process is really slow, but there are both subjective and objective reasons. In order to be more detailed and not to take up too much time, we will give you, as you say, not a discount, but an expanded information on this question, where will be the specific answers to every question you ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u58	So, colleagues, from. The Holy One gives the question to Valerius Pisarenko. Mr. Valery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have recently made a really, really good decision on the individual use of gas to the population and the consumption standards, and as to what happens in the near future, I hope that the government will allow and help the Ukrainians to install individual gas accounting devices. Would you like to hear the specific figures for 2019? I am approached by a great many Harkians who are waiting for help in this regard: the installation of individual gas accounting devices. I understand that the government is willing to go out and finance these things. In addition, we hope that soon we will be able to finance these needs for the local budgets as well. So please give a more accurate answer to what plans for this year for counters?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u60	The honourable national deputy, indeed, was forced by the government last week to approve the decision to bring natural gas consumption into line with the real standard of consumer consumption. This forced decision was due to the fact that the relevant monopolies of the previous time, through appropriate judicial instruments, had returned consumption standards by 1996. And the standard of consumption, which was legalized, was about 10 meters cubic per consumer, for consumers with no accounting devices. We remember quite well that in the previous period, there were appropriate assignments and decisions in the regional gas distribution programs, which clearly defined the extent to which individual accounting instruments were installed. Today, in our nation’s territory, consumers of natural gas, where there are no counters, make up about 3 million households. It takes at least 2.5 billion dollars to provide 100 percent of the cost to consumers. These funds, according to the government, are and should be provided from the economic activities of NAC Naftogaz National Shareholder Company. The decision provided for such commitments. In time. I am. Well, it's supposed that every citizen who doesn't have an instrument of accounting has to go to the company, and on the basis of the company's appeal, the company is obliged to set up individual accounting instruments. There are technical and financial possibilities for this. We also ask for control by a directly independent controller with appropriate enforcement tools and including licensing conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u61	The next question is the national deputy of Krivohatko. Please. Microphone's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u62	Dear members of the government, I have in my hands the cost of carrying out the hemodialysis procedure. It's a very expensive procedure, one patient costs the state about 250,000 a year. And the State grants this procedure. But I'm very concerned about the way in which this money is used in Zaporez. There's brand number one and brand number two. The technical documentation is prescribed in such a way that only one firm, one company, can participate. And as a result, brand number two has reached 1,000, 800 dollars per set. And at the same time, Odessa, Six, Winnitz, and even the city of Energodar, Zaporozhye buys brand number 1 at the price of 1,000, 500 bracelets per set. The difference is 300 bucks. As a result, the subsidy is 78 million plus the local budget 50 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u63	15 seconds to complete. We don't have a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u64	The state loses 20 million dollars. I'm asking you to intervene, because the technical documentation is prescribed only so that one firm can participate. It's written in the documentation in the shahrai way. And as a result, they die.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u65	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u66	I think in this situation we're going to form a parliamentary inquiry and deal with the situation. But if you think that any tendering has been disrupted, please have appropriate law enforcement authorities, ask them to understand how legitimate it is, how far there has not been specific legislation in the process, and we need to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u67	Please, the next question. National Deputy Osuhovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u68	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Please tell me, how do you fight those black registers and black notaries that are still in business with Ukrainians, taking away their private property, land, in ordinary Ukrainians? This is a matter of national security for today, just as it relates to the private property of Ukrainians. Please tell me, will you defeat them? Or is it possible at the legislative level that we can change that situation? Because no investor is going to come to Ukraine when there's such a nuisance, just like those black notaries and black registrars that, unfortunately, are still operating in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u69	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. I want to take concrete steps that we're fighting for. Everything you can do at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers has been done for the last six months. First of all, there's an open list of all the registries and all the notaries that are blocked for violation on the Justice Department's website. Secondly, there's a very big problem with utilities that are registered somewhere in a small village, and the branches have all over the district centers. The Kabminu decree has been adopted, which prohibits the presence of branches of such utilities. Thirdly, the introduction of the February month of exams for all the registrars who enter the profession and who have been blocked for violation. But I want to, you know, emphasize that I personally calculated all the violations in the registration system: 75 percent of them happen in utilities. But when an offer was made to this session hall to change the law and cancel the utilities, the honourable deputies, you didn't support it in any way. And today they continue to work, and most of the offences committed by these utilities. On our part, we promise to make that offer again. And I look forward to your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u71	Please, the next question is the People's Deputy Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u72	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. We have an interesting "hour of questions to the government" today. There's no Prime Minister, there's no First Deputy, there's no Key Ministers, there's no Power, there's no Power. Who's got to ask? Perhaps they are afraid of questions that may be echoing in the hall today. The deputy minister of justice for half an hour told us from the rostrum, as the bill was approved yesterday, and what was written there, which at best would be considered by our successors, because he could hardly reach this room. We drive around the country with Laszko, and every time we meet, the first question is, here's the payment, here's the pension, 2600's the pension, 1900's the payment for gas, that's the subsidy. People ask how you can live, how you can survive. In the past government, Groissman used to say, "I'll be the head of the ladies who wrote the bills." Question: How many governments have they put on their heads for these space payments they're writing out to people?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u73	Please answer, Your Honor. It was the voice of the people, I understand. The answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u74	I think I want to confirm one more time that the government is doing everything and everything in its power to protect the Ukrainian. On the basis of parliamentary appeals, according to the commission of Vladimir Borisovich, Prime Minister, the tasked and formed working group led by the NCREKP is the body which has the appropriate authority to verify and comply with current legislation. I think that in the near future we will get feedback from the results of tests by distribution companies that are not objective enough to account for their customers. At the same time, I would like to point out that the regulator has appropriate instruments, including fiscal ones, to bring the structure into order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u75	Thank you for your answer. And please, the next question is the People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u76	Alexander Doubenkov, opposition block faction. Dear government officials, dear colleagues, there is now a catastrophic situation in Ukraine: the debt of residential services amounts to more than 50 billion dollars, just think about these figures. You're saying that you're running a government policy on the introduction of subsidies, but the number of recipients of subsidies is shrinking every year. And the tariffs that you have set in the Prime Minister's person through the decision of the NCREKP are insurmountable for the population. The Opposition Block insists on creating additional grants to local budgets based on the reduction of the spending on the power block, i.e. this debt to be paid at least partially by the state budget. You're like government officials, what are you going to do with this problem? In December 2018 alone, debt was increased by more than 7 billion dollars. This is a terrible catastrophic situation, which is actually characterized by the genocide of the Ukrainian population.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u77	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u78	The genocide of the Ukrainian population by setting very serious high tariffs that are not up to the population, and you know that. How are you going to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u79	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u80	Dear People's Deputies, I share your concern with the problem you are now talking about. But I would advise you to ask about the debt structure you're talking about. Just now, National MP Kuprienko mentioned the payments that came to people as a result of the illegal deduction of the gas they consume without counters for billions of dollars. Let's look at the debt structure they have today before Naftogaza. Half of this debt is fines and pennies Naftogaz counted to our people. If we're talking about other aspects of subsidies that we have today, I want to point out that today you're comparing the numbers of grantors that were at the end of the heating period with those that were on January 1, 2019. This is direct manipulation. And what I want to say is about solving the problem of municipal tariffs and housing debt. Anyone who needs a grant will get it. But those who do not deceive the state who write real incomes in their declarations will be given an indication of all their items of life that are valuable. We have over 4 million people who are now receiving grants and who will start receiving cash grants as early as March 1. And the last. Why did this problem arise with the credits? In this room on December 21, 2017, Bill 2260 was passed, which allowed regional gas companies to transfer the date from January 1st 18th to January 1st 21st, thus allowing them to continue manipulating the figures for another three years. Take a look at who introduced this bill and why people were mugged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u81	Thank you. Please. And, please, one minute to reply, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to once again understand that we should thank those people who are fully paying for utilities. 2017 - the calculation rate was 93 percent, 2018 - it fell, but it is 90 percent. People who receive subsidies get directly from the state. But what hasn't been set up, so to speak, in the legislative order and in the further setting of the counters, it's still allowing you to write down the rules of write-off on. Or lies. So please pay attention to that, and you still have to go to commercial accounting to give a counter service to count, give quality service, and then you will. It'll be all right. And each time it is delayed to set a date for the end-setting of the counters, it is possible to credit and increase the number of households.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, so that there is no misunderstanding, I say that two more speeches: Bezbakh and Sporesh. Yeah? I now give the floor to Besbah Yakovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u84	Thank you very much! I'm asking you to pass it on. Please pass the word to the Head of Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u85	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte. Dear ministers, honourable members of the government! I'm talking to half of the government, because I'm sorry to see you today, and I think, like all Ukrainians, that almost half of your representatives -- vice-premiers, Prime Minister -- are gone. Well, maybe you don't respect Parliament, I understand, but even if you have to respect the Ukrainian people you're talking about, you're so worried about. So I have a question: That's how you recently approved new assignments. Subsidies schedule, new rules, and you've reduced the deadline for community services to one month for people to be deprived of subsidies. You've set the amount of 340 dollars in debt. If a person has not paid, he will be deprived of the grant. And you know that the average wage for utilities is $2,000 300? When it's practically not going to work for pensioners! This makes up practically 30 percent of the average salary of citizens. I want to say that these tariffs and these prices are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u86	Please finish! 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u87	If you care so much about the Ukrainian people, stand up for them, not for Koboljev, don't protect Vitrenk – this whole mob that is robbing Ukrainians, who are robbing Ukrainians, who are taking the last money out of them for community services! Then this will be an indicator of your protection from society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u88	Reva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u89	Dear People's Deputy Golovko, I'm glad that you've finally read our grant decree, but I'm pointing out that the rule of non-subsidy in the case of over 340 dollars in debt exists in our legislation for two years now, not the latest changes to subsidies, but this rule has been in place for two years. That's the first one. With regard to the reduction in the period after which the subsidy may be suspended, namely, one month’s unpaid payment, this rule is effective on March 1, 2019. Why? But since March 1, 2019, people will receive cash on the day of the grant, and if they don't pay the month, the reaction will be instantaneous, because no one has changed payment discipline. And if we are to take a decisive step and give people money, at the same time we should increase our responsibility for not reaching out to the person to whom they were assigned. So the absolute balance of responsibility and rights has been ensured; there is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u90	Thank you. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u91	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Please pass the word to Alexander Dehtyarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u92	Good afternoon! Alexander Dehtyarchuk, 154th constituency. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a claim to a quantity of government, but let's be honest about how many of us are in the room today, and then we're actually going to be putting claims on someone. As a matter of fact. I'd like to ask Mr. Vladimir Omelán a question. I would like to draw attention to the quality of the road cover of the Kiev - Chop road in the region of Ravenske, Žitomir region: the top layer is completely flooded. The reason is to overload the load, because it's the right lane, and it's the right lane, and it's the right side. If we do not begin repairs immediately, we will have to spend much more tomorrow. And I would also like to look at the quality of road service, especially when I'm jealous of the neighboring Lvivsky area where the Turkish company serves the road, and I'm sad to see Ravensky, where there are huge problems during the icicle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u94	Thank you. High-ranking national deputies on the status of the Kiev-Chop highway, as well as Kiev-Odessa. In fact, they're about the same. At the last government meeting, an additional 550 million dollars were allocated, of which 300 million were actually on the Kiev-Chop route. This week, we complete the Ukrawtodor survey technically and we approach the surface repair, not the pit, but actually the surface, to make it longer, and at the same time we do the technical documentation, which is missing something, no one has been able to do it, and to make it a capital repair. In the case of technical maintenance, the so-called operation of these routes, in fact, private companies have shown a completely different quality of work. In this regard, last year we switched to the same contracts in 12 areas of Ukraine, and we plan to extend this practice to all areas. We just have to make it clear that it costs more, but the quality is much higher, and the technical condition, the operation of the routes goes on at least 30 to 40 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, there has been such an emotional appeal, a request: two more questions. And the government agrees on two more questions to answer, but that's going to be an exclusive and complete two questions. It's a deal, isn't it? Okay. Gabrieluk Mikhail is handing Michael Bondar over. And that's just two final questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u96	Thank you. Mikhailo Bondar, 119 constituency. I've got the coal question again, and I've been approached by the Lviv-coal DP. The first question is shipping. Because there's actually a Triple TEC that takes coal from them. Besides the Goodwill Child, it doesn't warm up, it doesn't warm up to 12 kilometers of coal. And as far as I can tell, now the Centrnergos are refusing brothers there, too. The second question is pay. Other miners, such as the East, have to pay off their debt. And please settle this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u97	Dear Michael Leontiyovich, thank you for asking. By Lviv-coal, the issue of shipping is under constant control, and today, and Monday, we're going to decide. I think that the issue will be resolved definitively, and there will be no problem with shipping. Unfortunately, we have no influence on private companies to organize these processes. And when it comes to coal calculations and payments, in January, there were calculations with Lviv-coal, which accounted for more than a hundred percent of the coal that was shipped. So it's gradually going to pay off the debt that was created there in the previous period. I don't think there'll be any problems for a month or two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u98	Thank you. And a final question. Schromium transmits the Rib of Alexia. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u99	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Dear government officials, the question people are asking at a meeting with the Fatherland MPs, I think it's all over the country: why do they have an extra two or three months to pay for the debt for this so-called standard admission to conditions, which is the difference in temperature over the counters if the counters are transferred to them outside the building. People get 500, 600, thousands of extra dollars, and they're going to have to pay for it. We know that there is a method that the government needs to review in order for this to be resolved. We know it's an illegal decision, we know that the NCREKP said that people can't pay for it. But what I want from the government right now is for someone to say to all of Ukraine what people have to do, who get extra debts on payments that they don't want, and they don't have to pay. And they shouldn't do what the authorities can't give the system to Naftogazu, which is a monopolist, or a polygamy, which is an oligaric structure that is controlled by certain oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u100	Dear National Deputy Mr. Ryabchin, I don't think I'm going to say anything new, that all the things you call are illegal. And there are, in order to confirm my words, the relevant decisions, including the national regulator, namely the NCRECR. Hence, consumers who have been exploited by illegal acts have also the full right to refrain from doing so. That is, consumers should be within the limits of government-approved standards, without any additional accounting, including those resulting from the introduction of gas to standard conditions. I'd like to put a dot in this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u101	Thank you. So "the hour of questions to the government" is over. Let us thank the government for its participation in the work and for its professional, constructive discussion. Thank you, colleagues. [[Applause]] Good luck, colleagues. And I would like to remind you that according to the 25th article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have time to make inquiries. And I invite you to the words of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And I'd like everyone to come into the interrogation room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u102	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, before moving to the polls, there have been 272 requests from Ukrainian national deputies today. Let me read out the announcement of our colleague, Mr. Derevyanck, of the People's Deputy, that his card on Thursday did not work when voting on the appeal to the national parliaments of the member states of the Alliance regarding the granting to Ukraine of VAT to NATO and his vote was in favour of this decision. Please take this into account in the transcript of our meeting. And now we're moving on to the announcement of 272 requests from the Ukrainian National Deputies: From Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of an order for the provision of housing or monetary compensation for military personnel, as well as for members of their families who have received the status of internally displaced persons. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister for the establishment of order and size of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas accounting devices. Jacob Bezbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Police, the Human Rights Council Commissioner, the State Department of Investigation, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the H.E.P.D., the Attorney General's Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Igor Kononenk to the head of the General Administration of the State Food Service in the Kyiv region regarding the violation of the PP "Allies" in the village of Halepya, the Obuhi district of the Kyiv District of the Environmental Protection Act. Michael Bondar to the so-called Director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District State Administration, Chief of Roads in Lviv Region, on the M-06 Kiev-Chop Bus Station in the village of Killini Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Health Minister for the provision of monitoring systems for every child with diabetes. Eugena Dajej, head of the High Town Reich administration, on the state of compliance with the rules of law in force, including ensuring the implementation of the constitutional rights of citizens by the local self-government of the village of Lutiz Kyiv region. Eugene Dajej to the Prime Minister on the real state of the practical implementation of the Supreme Council's decision on the return of the State-owned government residence to State-owned property and providing information on who is the real holder of its territory, buildings and property today. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister to ensure the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers Order "On the Order of Certifications and Charitable Signs of War Veterans" of May 12, 94, No.302 with a view to resolving the issue of ordering gift forms for the extended tour of the territory of the SND member countries for 16-20 years. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister for the verification of the legality and accuracy of the liquidation of the Ukrainian Marine Ports 'Servement. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister for the introduction of natural gas consumption standards to the population, in the absence of gas counters, in accordance with actual consumption. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the provision of material assistance to a wartime participant, Kravec Alexandre, a resident of the village of Stary Lubar of the Lubar district of Žitomir district, for the treatment of diseases associated with participation in the ATO. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir Paradise Administration for the provision of material assistance to a village of the town of Lake Zitomir district, the Zitomir region of Melnik Eugen, 93rd birthday, for the treatment of cancer. Vladislav Buharev to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence, Head of the Board, Secretary of the Security and Defence Council on proposals for a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Law on SBA. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the allocation of funds from the state budget for the 19th year to provide the necessary assistance to the newly created Chernecchin village community in the district of the district of Ahtyr. Natalia Wesselova to the Prime Minister for the Order of Entry of Persons, the movement of goods into temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas and the departure of persons, the movement of goods from such territories. Natalya Weselov to the Minister of Justice for the Registration of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine since December 20, 18th, under Order 1442/32894 of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of July 26, 18th, No. 186. Dimitar Timchuk to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council for the application of restrictive measures (sensorships) concerning legal persons with the aggressor state capital. Vitalia Kupria to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the failure by the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to provide Shevchuk with an answer to the parliamentary request for his secret society meeting with President of Ukraine Prashenko. Bogdan Matkowski to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and Food on the provision of information on DP "Solvable Drogby factory". Vadim Krivohatka to the Defence Minister for the possible violation of legislation by officials of the Vilnius RVC during the military service of the head of the Pavlovska Rural Council of Klimenka District. Alona Babak to Lviv City Head on the problem of water pumping in the apartment building on the street of Volodymyr the Great, 46 in Lviv. Igor Shurma to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General, for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice in connection with the deaths of people who have suffered measles. Igora Shurma to the head of the National Police, Attorney General, on the involvement of the Ministry of Health management in the audit of the National Court of Auditors of Ukraine on the effectiveness of the use of State budget subsidies to local budgets for the reform of regional health systems for the implementation of joint action with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Public Health Improvement Project. Tetjana Crnoval to the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on PEC issues on clarifying the application of article 14 of the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act on the change of natural gas supplier procedure. Vadim Podobraznak to Minister of Interior, Attorney General, on the illegal privatization of property in municipal property. Sergey Mishchenka to Henprocuror for the violation of the head of the Preyaslav-Hmelnicke District State Administration by Klimenkom of Ukrainian legislation in the field of prevention of corruption and falsification of documents with a view to concealing the violation. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health in charge of the headship of the Montenegrin Ombudsman for the treatment of the onceased inhabitants of the village of Berezongka in the Visnik region of the Cherniewsky region. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health in charge of the headship of the Montenegrin Ombudsman for the provision of medical assistance to the oncological resident of the village of Maidan of the Visniki district of the Cherniewsky region. Helen Matuzko to the head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal on the disgruntled status of the organization of the proper storage of criminal records in the office of the Kyiv Court of Appeal and as a result of the negative influence of such official negligence by the responsible officials of the court on the making of fair court decisions. Helen Matuzko to the head of Kyiv’s Sanhedrin District Court for the unsatisfactory status of the organization of the proper storage of criminal records in the office of the Kyiv District Court and as a result of the negative influence of such official negligence by the responsible officials of the court on the administration of fair court decisions. Oxana Korczynska to the Defence Minister for the non-ensure of an independent, transparent periodic assessment of the military personnel of the Central Military and Medical Commission and the Military and Medical Commissions for the establishment of an objective professional level, the business and moral qualities of each military officer in accordance with their position and the prospects for service use, in keeping with the standards of law in force. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the monetaryization of subsidies and benefits. Sergey Labazuka to the Ministry of Social Policy for Municipal Institutions. Svetlana Zalishtuk to the Minister from the temporarily occupied territories on the results and individual issues of the Commission's work on the issue of providing assistance to persons deprived of personal liberty by illegal armed formations, the occupying administration and/or the authorities of the Russian Federation in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine and/or Ukraine in connection with the public or political activities of such persons, as well as the support of the persons and members of their families. Alexander Abdullin to the Prime Minister on the abuse of power by the Chief Executive of the State Department in the Cherkas region and the unwillingness of the leadership of the State Department of Ukraine to remove violations of the law, responding to the numerous appeals by civil activists of the GO "Guarant". Alexander Abdullin, under the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health, on the need for the attention of the Ministry of Health to provide children with disabilities with muscular dystrophy of Duchenne, support and treatment for budgetary expenses. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister for the capital repair of the Kiev - Kharkiv road area within Poltava. Yuri Boyka to the Attorney General on the raiding of the land of TOV "DREMEZNA-AGRO", which she rents in the Obuhi district of Kiev. Igor Kotwiecki to the Head of the Police on measures to combat the brutal beating of the parents of young children. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister for the prevention of excessive pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Šinkovic to the head of the Hmelnick Arch for the organization of film projects in the theaters of the Hmelnick region. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister for refusing to allow the closure of the dental office and the removal of medical equipment from the village of Vaškovci in the Cherniewice region. Maxima Burbak to the Minister of Education and Science on the disgraceful actions of Lomachinski U.S.A. I-III degrees in the Cherniewsky region. Taras Kremen to the Prime Minister on the capital repair with the reinforcement of the foundation and the foundation walls of the Novobuyska U.S. I-III degrees of the Mikolai district. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers for the establishment of individual natural gas counters in the 19th year. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Provincial Regional Authority, Novograd-Volin City Head, to provide comprehensive assistance to the disabled and group. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir government for operational intervention, treatment and provision of medicines at the expense of budgetary resources. Jury Bublika to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the violation of PAT Poltawaza consumer rights by abuse of its monopoly (dominant) position in the market of natural gas distribution services within the framework of the location of the gas networks in its possession, ignoring the findings of the National Commission on Energy and Municipal Services. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Culture for funding for the State-renowned boarding school I-II graduated from the Academy of Arts in Opišna, named Vasil Krichevski. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister for the implementation by the Cabinet of Ministers of section II of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain Ukrainian legislation on the issue of collective ownership of land, the improvement of land use rules in agricultural lands, the prevention of raiding and the promotion of irrigation in Ukraine. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the "child of war" category of benefits for the use of utilities. Valérie Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the payment of the arrears of pensions to internally displaced persons. Mikoli Kucher to the head of the Nazi Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to clarify the order of transmission to the balance of electricity networks. Mikhail Kobcev is under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide information on excise duties on tobacco products. Artura Martovicki to the Prime Minister on the non-objectivity of the allocation of funds between local budgets aimed at maintaining educational and health institutions. Artura Martovicko and Igor Shurma are headed by the House of Auditors for the immediate audit of the State Enterprise Electronic Health, which has a statutory capital of $100, which provides services under the contracts entered into by the Ministry of Health. Victor Vuk to Henprocuror for the uneven application by the Attorney General of Ukraine of Ukrainian legislation on civil matters. Victor Vuk to Vice Prime Minister Paul Rosenk of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of restrictions by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Social Affairs, the rights, freedoms and interests of citizens in the field of labour relations protected by law. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Environmental Inspectorate, the Ministry of Regional Development, the State Forest Resources Agency, the State Road Agency, the Kyiv District Administration, the public Kyivoblanergo Shareholder Society, regarding the improper provision of housing services and the enforcement of environmental and environmental legislation. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to improve legislation aimed at countering domestic violence in the family. Anatoly of Denisenka to the minister of internal affairs to increase the fight against internal affairs regarding the distribution of narcotic drugs in Ukraine and the involvement of those responsible. Vadim Krivochatka, who was temporarily acting as Health Minister, Henprosecutor for the violation of legislation, was involved in the purchase of waste materials for renal dialysis in Zaporozhye region. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister for the continuation of the destructive industrial processes. John Sporish to the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the delay in the investigation by the employees of the district law enforcement authorities of the Vinick area of the case of the prosecution of the perpetrators of a crime involving the citizen of Kirichuk, as provided for in article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the non-admission of school closures, kindergartens, hospitals and other social structures in Ukraine. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency for the immediate repair of road N23 at Kropivnicki-Cruvy Rig. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Police, on the investigation of the decommissioning from the gas supply of the Poltava region's infrastructure during the heating period. Alexander Kodola to the head of the Nazi Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations to change the rules of the fragmented electricity market. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Chernigow Observatories on passenger transport between the ruralities of the Chernigiv region. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Ravenna government for the provision of benefits to citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Mr. Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Plains Authority, Head of the Dubrovnik Regional Government of the Plains Region for the provision of disabled persons with specialized means of transport. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister on the order of payment of benefits and subsidies for housing and utility services, such as gas. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Infrastructure for Road Repair. Anna Romanova to Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology, Minister of Finance for the Development of the Horol River Coastal Area in Mirgorod. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror with regard to the results of the investigations into the shootings of members of the Dignity Revolution. Helen Sotnik to Henprocuror with regard to the investigation of crimes involving high - ranking workers who committed crimes in the field of service or corruption. Irina Suslowy to the Military Prosecutor of the Western region of Ukraine for information on the verification of sexual harassment in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Irina Souslowy to Chief Genstab, Chief Commander of the U.S.S.S.A., Minister of Defense on the facts of sexual harassment while serving at the U.S.S.A. Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister to ensure the smooth operation of the issuance of permits for Ukraine's international car carriers. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Observatory on the allocation of funds in the 19th year for the construction and capital repair of social infrastructure facilities in the Bilocerkowsk and Skirski districts of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister on the need for the allocation of funds (subsidies) from the State budget for the capital repair of bridges in the village of the city type Vladarka, located within roads R-17 (White Church-Voldarka-Tetiev-Lipovec-Humenne) and R-18 (Zitomir-Populna-Squira-Volodarka-Stavište). Valery Davidenka to the Minister for Veterans for the violation of the labour rights of a war veteran in Trotsky. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Director of the State Institute of Otolaryngology of Professor Colomaychenk NAMN Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, Head of the Hmelinski Observatoire for the replacement of the child with hearing defects of the external system of implantation of hearing aids, whose language processor is not programmed or subject to repair. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Affairs, the head of the Pension Fund's government, regarding the failure to respond to a parliamentary request regarding the settlement of the issue of social benefits to internally displaced persons. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Ternopil Authority for the Financing of Ternopil Area Educational Objects at the expense of the State Regional Development Fund. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Ternopil Authority for the payment of a fee for the prestige of the work of the Educationers of the Ternopil region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister for the provision of social guarantees to the participants in the fighting. Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister for the protection of pensioners' rights, support for the regional press market, and preservation of the network of the PAT offices "The Crucifixion". Andrija Illenka to the Director General of the Kyivzelenbud Municipal Association, head of the Kyiv City State Department for the development of a rest zone in the area of the forest farm located between Bratislava Street and Kurnatovsky Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for dealing with the issues of the Fire Rescue Service of the Righteous Region of Kiev. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Education and Science on how to acquire the degree of Doctor of Philosophy during his postgraduate (adjunctura). Andrija Vadaturski to the director of the state-owned enterprise "Restructuring Research", president of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences for the provision of Ukrainian citizens land from the land of DP DH "Reconstruction" SGI NCNS. Sergey Rybalka to the head of the Dnipropetrov district government for the management of drinking water supply in the sixth quarter of the village of Lozovtak of Krivrožice district of Dnipropetrovsk. Igor Lapin to the head doctor of the Feofania Hospital of State for information and clarification. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister for not responding to a request from a nardep. Andrija Lopushanski to Minister of Finance, Minister of Ecology, Head of the Lviv Observatory on the need for the implementation of the project "Reconstruction of the TVP range in Sambori Lvivsk district". Andrija Lopushanski to the minister of ecology, natural resources, heads of the Lviv government on the need to improve the water supply, water supply, and sewage treatment system in the city of Sambi Lviv. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister on the increase of pensions for former civil servants. Paul Dzüblik to Henprocuror, minister of internal affairs for damages in the illegal mining of sand by a Chinese company in the construction of the northern bypass of the city of Zitomir. Groups of Nardeps (Jarinics, Lucenko Others; only 15) to the Ministry of Health on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities in the post of Head of the State Institute of the Heart of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister in charge of the duties of the Head of the State of Motorways, head of the Cherkas observatories in order to contribute to the financing of the repair of the emergency section of the road through the village of Moshurov of the Taliniv region, Cherkas region. Aunt Ostrickov to head the Ukrainian State Service in extraordinary situations, performing the duty of head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service to fire at the "Specialized" customs post, which destroyed the customs archives. Aunts Ostrickov to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for the inaction of officials of the Volin Customs of the DFS and the investigating authority of the financial investigation of the U.S. Department of Finance into the illegal movement of goods. Paul Rizanenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on matters of geodesy, cartography, and cadastre to take steps to prevent violations of land laws in the activities of the State’s cadastre. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the government of the Public Stock Exchange Society of Skrnafta for the provision of information and copies of supporting documents for the execution of sales contracts made by Pat "Kruknafta". Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister on the fulfilment of the requirements of articles 1, 30, 30th of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act in the protection of children in the war zone and children who have suffered as a result of armed conflict. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for information on the organization's appointment to conduct a later agreement on the provision of advisory services for the reform of the internal system totalling $2 million,578,000,900. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Agency for Motorways on the critical situation of road traffic in the Poltava region, because of the inequity of repairs, the lack of safeguards for their exploitation and the abuse of the authorities in setting the costs of these works and the allocation of budgetary resources for their payment. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister, acting as Head of the State Road Agency, Minister of Infrastructure for Enhancing the Construction of Concrete Roads in Ukraine. Jaroslava Markevich to the minister of foreign affairs regarding the liberation of Ukrainian citizens of Sapiter and Fomenkov from Iranian captivity. Victoria Ptašnik to the head of the National Police Directorate in the Ivano-Frankow region for the commission of unlawful actions by the investigators of the Cologne Police Department of HUNP in the Ivano-Frankiv region. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the Kiev City Administration for the nameing of the construction site in the Dniprov district of Kiev to the street of Anatolia Pobrzebna. Yuri Lewchenk to the minister of culture for clarification regarding the acceptance of the project documentation for construction in historic locations. Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of Education for the provision of a legal mechanism to recognize as invalid higher education diplomas issued on the basis of forged documents. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for the verification of the efficiency of the use of state budget subsidies to ensure quality, modern and affordable general secondary education "New Ukrainian School" in 2018. Roman Semenha to the minister of finance in charge of the duties of the Head of the State of Motorways, the minister of infrastructure for financing the reconstruction of the South Bank (Warvarov) bridge across the South Bug River. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Family Affairs, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister on Economic Development, Minister of Youth and Sports, Minister of Finance for Subsidy for Reconstruction of the Equal Stadium "Avangard". Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the immediate verification of pension violations when recalculating the pension, citizen Snisarenek W.V. Alexander Dombrovski, until the temporary duty of the minister of health to provide treatment for serious illness, Buzdizhan C.L. Vadim Yvchenk to the Minister of Justice about providing information on the conduct of land auctions. Vitalia Homutinika to the Prime Minister, the director of the Public Shareholders' Association for the delivery of printed media in Ukraine for 2014-2019 and negative trends in the information field. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs to verify the legality of the tenders conducted for greening and recreation in Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the inadequacy of service to the many - story buildings of the right - hand district of Kiev. Sergey Leshchenka to the director of the Kyivmiskswitlo utility for lighting up the area of Marshall Konjeva Street in the Bolossian district of Kiev. Sergey Leschchenka to the Attorney General for the investigation of a deadly accident in Poltavi. Groups of National Deputies (Batenka, Dubinina, others; only 7th) to the Prime Minister on the issue of the creation of a State beekeeping inspection as the central authority of executive authority, whose activities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers and which is part of the system of executive authorities and ensures the implementation of State policy in the beekeeping sector of the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister for the illegal numbering of Lvivgaz Pat and Lvivgaz Zpová to consumers of excess gas volumes at the expense of the correction coefficient of the meter to bring the volume of gas to standard conditions and to provide information on the establishment of free individual gas calculators to consumers at the cost of NAC "NAFTOGAZU". Alexander Kirsch to the Prime Minister, the Head of the Board of Directors, the Henprocurorate for the detection of a criminal scheme for the embezzlement of foreign students who are studying at the Donetsk National Medical University, and for the self-regulatory actions of individual officials of the BSS. Alexander Kirsza to the Prime Minister for the preservation of the Specialized Medical and Sanitary Section 13, located in Kharkiv, in the village of the village of Petihatka. Andrija Shinkovič, Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister on the situation that resulted in the closure of the stationary office of the day-to-day stay of the Antoninian department of the Krasilian CRL. Dmitri Schenchev to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of write-offs from higher educational institutions of the state form of property of multiple apartment buildings. Gregory Times to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the use of response measures to ensure timely and impartial investigation of criminal conduct initiated as a result of the appeals of the Michalchan village head Shevchuk to the law enforcement authorities of the region of Cherniewec. Gregory Times of the Acting Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre for the provision of a service investigation into the actions of officials of the General Directorate of the State Department of the Republic of Montenegro in part of the approval of the decrees of 14 December 2018 No. 24-1747/14-18-SG and No. 24-1748/14-18-SG, without consent of the Michalchanska Rural Council of the Montenegrin Council. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a working group to study the environmental status of lakes in the Ukrainian Danube: Yalpug-Kugurluj, Katlabug, Kagula, Kartal, China, Safian and others. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Energy Commission, who is conducting a national energy regulation to review the decision of the National Commission, which regulates the national energy sector on the repeal of the NCRECR Regulation on tariffs differentiated over time from December 20, 18th, No. 1241 (with amendments). John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister on the issue of providing state-level support to some categories of citizens for vocational and higher education. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister for the promotion of an urgent cardiac surgery to replace the heart valve at the National Institute for Cervical Surgery. Amos National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine at budget costs Vladimir Aresonkov to the minister of finance for the work of trainers at sports schools. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Prosecutor's Office of the Zaporozhye Region, the Sundero Society, Shepetov City Prosecutor's Office of the Hmelnicke District, the Shepetov Police Department of the HUNP in the Hmelnicke District for the use of actions to falsify a court decision. Jury Timoshenko to the head of the Ivano-Frankow observatories for the implementation of the clean-up project. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General, the Chief of State Fiscal Services in the Kyiv region, the Chief of the Brovary Joint State Tax Inspectorate of the Central Administration of the State Fiscal Service in Kiev for the long-term investigation of criminal conduct and tax evasion. Sergei Vlasenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the violation of electoral legislation by President Peter Prashenko of Ukraine and his team. Sergey Vlasenka to the commander of the National Guard for the dissemination of openly false information by Alexia Gethtman on the air of Ukraine's national television channels for the purpose of discrediting the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Yulia Timoshenko. Victor Romanyuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the systematic continuation of the practice of mass bribery of the voters of the Obukhivsky and Vasilkovsky region of the Kyiv region. Jurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers, Presidential Administration, for providing information on how to use and distribute funds to finance the Presidential Fund for Youth Education and Science. Edward Matthewchuk to the Human Rights Supreme Council, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the review of the appeal of the resident of Odessa, the pensioner of Love to find out and solve all the situations that have arisen in recent years to avoid the negative consequences of water supply and water management, as well as the comprehensive protection of violated rights. Vadim Sidorczuk, Minister of Health, Minister of Education, on strengthening preventive measures to prevent and spread influenza and HIV infection in educational institutions and to ensure the continuity of the educational process. Natalia Royal and Yuri Solod to the Prime Minister on the inadequacy of the reform of the railway sector in particular areas of the Luhansk region. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv Observatories for the development of Fastowsk, Makarovsk, and Skvirsk districts in the Kyiv region and for the inclusion of priority objects in appropriate district programs. Ruslan Solvar to the Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv Authority for the allocation of funds from the state and district budgets for the construction of an underwater pipeline in the village of Elizabeth of the Fastev region of Kiev. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Social Policy on the threat of deterioration of the social status of Ukrainian citizens in connection with the possible adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (No. 9511) (since 30 January 19) and the implementation by the Government of paragraph 5B of the IMF Memorandum signed by the first persons of the country on 5 December 18th. Taras Shepherd to Defence Minister Genstab, Commander-in-Chief of the U.S.S.A., to provide information on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the characteristics of State policy to ensure Ukraine's state sovereignty in temporarily occupied areas in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister for the adoption of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to transfer the object of the cultural heritage of the state property, a monument to the architecture of the Guest House to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev. Igora Lucenka to the Rector of the National Technical University of Ukraine, the “Kyivian Political Institute of the Name Igor Sikorsky” for the provision of copies of some of the investment agreements of the National Technical University of Kiev, the Sikhorsky Institute of Technology on the land of municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev. Jury Berezi to the Minister of Interior, the head of the National Police, the Henprosecutor for taking urgent action to destroy the grave of Shramk Constantine, who died under the village of Piska, courageously and heroically protecting Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Jurya Berezi to the Prime Minister, Head of the Board of Directors, on the verification of information on the referral of the State Enterprise "Constructional Bureau of the Southern Name of Yangel" to the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Cabinet of Ministers on measures to protect fraudulent investors. Jury Miroshnicka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on bringing Ukraine's normative base into line with basic European standards. Oleg Petrenko to the head of the National Police Department in the Cherkas region for the closure in Cherkasa. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need to establish a legislative budget for the financing of socio-economic measures to compensate the risk to the population living in the area of observation of the EES. Igor Guza to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Affairs, Prime Minister, on raising the level of pay for teaching staff in pre-school education. Robert Gorvato to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy on the promotion of the creation and activities of family farms and the completion of the implementation of Ukrainian Law No. 2497-VIII. Roberta Gorvato to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, Ministry of Health, on the development of draft legislation in the field of water of natural mineral and the order of the definition of water of natural mineral food. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Social Policy on the consideration of the collective appeal of retired former civil servants and employees of local self-government bodies in the Odessa area for pension and constitutional rights. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the execution of a court decision. Ruslan Demczak to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association "Krupposta" for bringing the number of working days in line with the demands of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine as of November 28, 13th, No. 959. Dear colleagues, we have 12 minutes before our break, and we have 6 addresses from the Ukrainian national deputies who are not satisfied with the answers that have come to their request. Now we're going to use these 12 minutes to just give the MPs a chance to come forward with their dissatisfactions. So it's a national MP. I have a letter from the following national deputies: Lechchenka Sergia, Korchinska Oksana, Semimenacha Romana, Vlastenka Sergia, Gopko Hanna. I see Master Sergei in the hall. Please, three minutes to make the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I have asked the Ukrainian President's Administration for the information contained in the Ukrainian President Peter Prashenko's declaration on the subject. and on the basis of documents that support the commercial and economic connections of enterprises whose final beneficiary is Peter Poroshenko, with the Russian Federation, including during the war situation. Unfortunately, the Presidential Administration is hiding information from society about which companies are trading with the Russian Federation. It doesn't answer the question why they do it. It doesn't answer the question about the volume of these trading transactions. It doesn't answer the question of whether they meet the demands of society today during, I emphasize, the military state of President Dustenk's trade with the Russian Federation. Because today we are told what is either Dusty or Putin. I'd say both Dusty and Putin. Today, we see that Peter Alexiyovich’s advertising campaign uses toll slogans, completely monkeyed out. To date, there is a complete economic merger between the current President of Ukraine and the Russian Federation. President Poshenko is helping the Russian economy to rise and grow. He pays the costs there, he gets the goods from there, he uses them in the work of his own businesses, so he gets rich. By the way, the same declarations show that President Prashenko's income increased 83 times over the past year compared to his income in 2017. This is confirmed by his own declarations. But when a national deputy refers to the President's Administration, who is called to assist the President in his activities, with a request for information, the President's Administration pretends they're absolutely useless here, and they're writing all kinds of notes. But as a national MP, I will continue to exercise parliamentary control over President Prashenko's activities. I will monitor his income from the Russian Federation, including, once again, during his declared state of war, and then I will inform the public, despite the opposition of the President's Administration, in the provision of relevant information. And I would advise Peter Alexiovich to take off the posters "or he, or Putin." He is today Putin in Ukraine. Just as he creates all conditions so as not to be different from Putin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I remind you that we have a few more minutes to take. There are several other deputies who have similarly registered dissatisfaction with the answers to their questions. And now we give them our word. Before that, I'll make a little announcement. That those MPs who wish to speak on our traditional Friday column of "Rose" will be able to sign up at 12:30, after the announcement of the break. Once again, I would like to turn to the Ukrainian National Deputies, that, the national deputy of Semimenach, the national deputy of Korchinska, the national deputy of Sergei Leschenko, there is now an opportunity for you to take the floor and speak. And as I understand it, the People's Deputy Hanna Hopko is joining us as well now and has the opportunity to use his right to speak in this section of dissatisfied with the answers to the questions that have come. And on the other hand, I would like to ask the executive authorities, asking them all of the requests of the national deputies of Ukraine, and today we have announced 272 requests, giving reasonable, thorough, clear answers. Mrs. Hopko is invited to attend. Please, Mrs. Gopko, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, I went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to focus on the situation in Odessa by investigating attacks on activists. And I very much hope that we will see progress and that the interim commission of inquiry will be able to continue its work, and society will see the important results of the work of parliamentarians that will in some way speed up the results of the investigation. I would also like to say that this week is extremely important to the Ukrainian Parliament. Those changes to the Constitution on the acquisition of full membership in the EU and NATO are an important historic step. But nevertheless, I hope that the Supreme Council, despite the presidential and parliamentary campaigns, will work and we will be able to adopt important laws in the near future -- this is the creation of a committee to oversee the services, the parliamentary committee; this is the reform of the Security Service, this is intelligence. That we can also have more transparency in the security and defence sectors, namely, procurement in the security sector. And also, colleagues, I would like to say that yesterday the Supreme Council adopted an important decision on the non-admission of Russians as observers in the presidential and parliamentary elections, given that we recognized Russia as an aggressor state. In order to minimize the threats, the risks that Russian observers might bring here, for the purposes of national security, for the protection of our citizens, this was an approved step that does not conflict with any of the OSCE's BDIPL documents, this is our sovereign right. And we've already had the opportunity to communicate with our Western partners today to inform them about this situation, and also to invite international observers, but not from the aggressor state, to Ukraine, in particular, to make our elections transparent and honest. Also important information is that this week, nearly 70 well - known public figures, as well as journalists, have signed a manifesto on the Euro-Atlantic agenda in which they want to explain to society the importance of European, Euro-Atlantic integration to enhance security, to increase prosperity, to integrate European institutions that can strengthen our statehood, our subjectivity. This is the order of the day. I want to announce that on February 19th, there will be a separate session in the Supreme Council devoted to the beginning of Russia's armed aggression against Ukraine, 5 years ago, and to say that it is extremely important to send a signal to Western countries to strengthen sanctions and to Ukrainian society. And the next week, I'm going to be in the East to feel those needs, and how to help our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u106	Thank you, dear colleague. Dear colleagues, I just don't see any more of those people's deputies who have asked to speak, to give them the right to speak with their dissatisfaction about answering requests. So I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. I'm reminding everyone that at this very time we're going to start a recording of the performances under the heading "Rose," so please return to the session room on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to return to the session room, because we will now have a record of the national MPs of Ukraine speaking on various issues. I would like to remind the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is Wednesday and Friday that Ukrainian national deputies have the right to speak out on issues that concern them and their voters. At the same time, I remind you once again, both the Ukrainian Rules and the position of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that when we discuss a bill, amendments to it, the MPs should still comply with the rules of the Rules, the international rules and only take action on the subject of the bill under discussion. Today, however, there is a full chance of speaking and discriminating on political issues. I understand that we already have all those MPs in the room who want to join the debate on "all kinds of issues." And I'm announcing a recording for the national MPs of Ukraine. Please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that all those who are now in the Hall will be able to speak today, using their legal right as defined in the Rules. Please welcome Valérie Pisarenko, his entry button worked first today. Mr. Valeria, please start the "all kinds of questions" section.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! I would like to continue the topic that I started today in the discussion with the Cabinet of Ministers, namely, the topic of labour migration. On more than one occasion, from this rostrum and from the walls of Parliament, I have highlighted those terrible figures that I mean officially -- officially! – announced by the Cabinet of Ministers. These aren't political figures, these are the numbers of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In fact, the Ministry now estimates that between seven million and nine million Ukrainians work abroad. They're the ones who don't work all the time. This year it is said that Ukrainians will transfer and send about $12 billion out of their earnings to the country’s budget. These are colossal numbers. We became a country where the country's budget is formed just from the arrival of migrant workers. What does that mean? This means that Ukrainians form GDP, create jobs, make the future for other countries, for our neighbouring countries, for distant countries. But at the same time, we are losing hope for the development of our own country. This will mean that the stream of young people who are now going abroad to study, seeking a better destiny in other countries, will not stop. This means that the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorities today are not allowing people to see the future in our country, which means that all the initiatives that we're discussing here have nothing to do with reality. What did I want to hear from the government today, and what did we talk about today? We need a plan. The government's failure to create jobs is not the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers must create a strategy whereby businesses can create jobs in Ukraine, and it is the authorities who are responsible for opening factories in Ukraine to create new jobs. We need to have specific numbers with you. The person who finishes today at the University of Ukraine should understand where she goes to do it; the person who works today should see that she has a job and she has a chance to change it to a better job. We need to see perspective and give people perspective, otherwise there is no chance in our country. We will continue to deal with this issue and press on the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorities so that there will be a future in our country for labour migrants to return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u109	Thank you. And now we're inviting national MP Maxime Chicken to the floor. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u110	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! Today, I would like to draw the attention of the public, experts and journalists to the election process of the Higher Council of Justice, which is currently in progress. Today, society demands the authority of all levels of maximum cleansing and transparency. Ukrainians are putting out tough criteria for future candidates in any body, and I personally support such requirements. And it is at this very time that there is a violent case where the sad lawyer Paul Greckivsky is trying to get back to the Supreme Council of Justice by violating the Constitution of Ukraine. He had already worked there for one term, and he must have enjoyed it. And he may feel that this gives him reason to ignore the law, which expressly forbids him from taking a second term. In order to become a member of the Justice Council again, he tries to manipulate legal subtleties, namely the renaming of this body. This is a direct challenge to Ukrainian justice on the part of Greeks. Paul of Greece is suspected by the Henprosecutor’s office of receiving a huge bribe. The whole country was watching these events. The motive of the Greeks today is not to really restore the system, but to avoid punishment and to continue working in a normal style that does not provide for transparency and reduction of corruption risks at all. We don't know Greek as a leader of positive change, but Ukrainians know him as a figure of corruption. We are trying to restore confidence in all branches of power today, but Greeks and similar ones are resisting and seeking to stay. I, like my fellow MPs, and many others, are concerned about the future closed in the full sense of that word by a gathering of lawyers, where there will be an attempt to bring Greeks into office. I urge the media to give the highest attention to the Greeks. I call on lawyers and lawyers not to stain their reputation or to support Paul Grecki's candidacy in any way. The second attempt to elect such a person would destroy confidence in the future composition of the High Council of Justice. This is going to be a huge scandal and a disgrace. In this connection, a group of national deputies initiated a meeting of signatures for submission to the Constitutional Court, and we gathered the necessary votes. Without such a Greek, we will be given a chance to further reform the system. But with the Greek Ukrainian society, it loses hope, opportunities, it loses its patience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u111	Thank you. Please make the next statement. National MP Anton Kisse is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u112	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, voters of 142 constituencies, which include Tarutinsky, Artisksky, Bolgradski, Saratsky, part of the Killi district! Last week as a national deputy, we all worked in our district. I had many meetings, and at these meetings there were a number of questions that needed to be addressed. The first thing is to intervene immediately in a situation involving winemaking. After making the relevant decisions on sanctions from the Russian Federation today there are no markets for wine, today the tanks are all filled, and we immediately need to make a decision, look for other markets. As a national deputy after meeting with my colleagues in Odestina, I very much ask the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development of Ukraine, to meet with those people who produce wine working in the wine industry. If the wine is not sold, there will be no possibility of paying today, and the crop is cut off. We're destroying the grapes. And I think that only together will the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the regional structures and the winegrowers, the winegrowers will be able to find a path that supports winemaking and grapes. That's the first one. And the second. There have also been a number of issues, meetings with public organizations regarding administrative and territorial reform. They asked the Cabinet of Ministers who formed the administrative and territorial units -- the associations that are being held today. There is a request that the Ministry of Regional Development of Ukraine adopt a delegation of the initiative group of Balgrad and the region of Balgrad to discuss all the issues that concern our voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u113	Thank you. And the National Deputy of Ukraine, Victor Wolf, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u114	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Honorary citizens, Ukraine as one of the successors of the Soviet Union and a party to the Treaty on the Elimination of Medium- and Short-range Missiles cannot stand outside the decision of the United States and Russia to suspend the treaty. This could lead to a new nuclear arms race and the deployment of nuclear missiles in Europe. The faction of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, registered a draft statement from the Supreme Council in connection with the danger of ending the missile contract signed at the end of the Cold War by Reagan and Gorbachev. Ukraine did not only conscientiously comply with all international obligations but also made a historic contribution to global nuclear disarmament by giving its third world nuclear arsenal in exchange for the security assurances of the nuclear powers under the Budapest Memorandum. Instead, Russia is gradually undermining nuclear disarmament in the world. Russia has committed armed aggression against Ukraine, severely violating the guarantees given to Ukraine and now failing to comply with its obligations under a missile contract. This is another manifestation of its policy of rematch, aimed at destroying international law and achieving Russia's great state goals by increasing the tension and nuclear blackmail of the world community. In a draft statement by the Ukrainian Parliament, Oleg Ljaska's team strongly proposes to condemn Russia's actions, which will lead to a new nuclear arms race. We propose to urge Russia and the United States to make diplomatic efforts to preserve the missile treaty as a fundamental element of strategic stability in the world. At the same time, in view of today's military and political realities, it is necessary to expand the membership of the parties to the treaty, to involve China and other nuclear powers. We also call on the state-guarantee States to develop specific mechanisms for implementing Ukraine's security assurances, including by urging the United States to make an immediate bilateral defence agreement with Ukraine, as proposed in the initiative of Oleg Laska to refer the Supreme Council to the US Congress of 22 March 2017. Oleg Láška’s Radical Party highlights the need for joint action by the world community to prevent nuclear dangers, to preserve peace and international order. It is the responsibility of all civilized nations and their leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u115	Thank you. And the National Deputy Leonid Jemetz is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, there are not many of you here, but you are becoming even more distinguished people's deputies who stay and work in the Ukrainian Parliament. Dear voters, you are today looking at a traditional, unfortunately, picture of an empty Friday hall when we were given a day’s schedule, with 4 bills, but there is no chance of voting or adopting them in Parliament on Friday. I mean, that's where the clown helmet started yesterday, so I'll say, today the whole country and Parliament are actually in the role of these clowns, because getting four bills with absolute understanding that no decision can be made on Friday, well, to put it mildly, does not indicate the serious role of Parliament and the understanding of what tasks and opportunities would be in this Parliament if there were a responsible state of MPs in sufficient numbers to adopt laws. Yesterday we adopted an extremely important law – amendments to the Constitution on the approval of the EU and NATO course. A total of 334 national deputies were accepted. The only day of the week when enough votes are needed to change the Constitution, which should have been done yesterday, in order not only to declare a course for the EU and NATO in our Constitution, but to actually move in that direction. Taking advantage of the fact that this is not a Friday when there are no MPs, but when there are 334, we had to adopt those real laws that would bring us closer to NATO, namely, the laws that we would demonstrate in accordance with NATO and the European Union, that we are not just fighting corruption, and we can win it. It is the Law on the Cancellation of Deputy Intactness, which has been promised, and thus far has not been adopted. This is the Law on Open Election Lists, which is an essential part of our movement to the European community. Without this law, we will have an inefficient parliament that does not make decisions but imposes them on the outside. Without this law of any European Union or NATO, we don't see that we don't write into our Ukrainian Constitution. That would be a real step. The same question about Mrs. Suprun was raised. Why wasn't he brought to the Supreme Council yesterday? Why was it that yesterday, when there were enough deputies, asked whether Parliament should appoint it as a minister of health or not? Parliament would be determined by the names we would see who has the position. In fact, I am using what I am now on the Supreme Council’s rostrum using the Rules of Procedure and the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies, and I appeal to my own committee: when does the committee begin to consider the Law on Open Election Lists, the Electoral Code? When we are finally able to fulfill the promise made by these deputies, becoming deputies to the Ukrainian people, that they will come and provide a new one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u117	Thank you. I'm asking you to make a statement to the National Deputy of Yemen as a reference to the Committee of Profiles. And, as far as I'm concerned, there's actually been 4000 amendments by the working group. But you know the Rules better than anyone in the Presidium, and you know that no working group has the authority of a committee, so the committee is currently looking at these amendments. And I am convinced that the Parliament will consider this bill, and will consider it in the near future, in the spring. Spring will win. Please welcome National Deputy Kirsch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u118	Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv. Again on gas counters, gentlemen of honor, and again on consumption standards. Not everyone knows that when the government has reduced consumption standards for those who are accounted for to 3,29. 3.22 cubes per person per month, not 9.8, as cheaters from gas companies write, it happened in the back. I mean, 9.8 is the 1996 norm, it hasn't worked since, and it's been canceled from the same date that it was renewed. So we don't have 9.8 times, because 3.29 is renewed by the back number. So when you're being paid 9.8, you don't have to pay 9.8, and that's what you have to pay back the debts that were then accumulated when you paid for 9.8, and it was 3.29, because 9.8 didn't work. Moreover, 3.29 is a standard for households with gas stoves and hot water supplies. Also, fair indicators include consumption standards for the absence of hot water supplies and for households where gas columns are used. So it also cancels out the hindquarters of all the rises that have been going on, and the normal human standards have been restored. For individual gas counters. Reva says you can set them up by the age of 21. But that's if there's no turning citizens. If there's a call, we've heard it today an hour ago, an hour ago from Kistion, vice-premier. These are the costs and the obligation of a gas company to set up individual counters, to which the government has allocated funds, if any. So, when, despite your request, you have a public alarm clock, when, despite your appeal, you are paid for by old standards, when there are mythical norms that have not worked since 96, please wait for your complaints, you can complain to your national deputy, you can complain to me: the Supreme Council, Kirsch, and I will send you an assignment not only to corrupt Naftogazu, but to the Ministry of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office, because otherwise it is impossible to fight them. My district already has 60 public building counters installed, and as far as Ukraine is concerned, no one knows. The profile committee can't get together, fuel-energy. So let's not wait for the fuel-energy committee to come together, write to us -- and we'll forward your complaints for assignment. Don't pay for 9.8, it's only 3.29.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u119	Thank you. Please make the next statement. Ostrkova Tetjana, a national deputy, is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, I would like to draw your attention to the problems that exist today at the customs office, where there is complete disorder, queues, delays in the customs processing of cars, both those on euronomers and those imported into Ukraine in the "import for the first time" regime, and goods of general use. I'm informing you as the head of the Customs Subcommittee that the state of affairs for today has cleared 84,000 cars that were previously on Euronomers. As a result, a budget of $5 billion,263 million went into the budget. By the end of the debt period, however, 14 days had been left until February 22. The capacity of all Ukrainian customs, if they are to form exclusively cars, is up to 3,000 cars a day. This means that there will still be an excise duty of up to 42,000 cars, which together will be about 120,000. Instead, this information from the DFS, when we approved the Law on the Reduction of Excise in Means of Transport, informed us that such vehicles that are on Euronomists in transit and temporary imports are at least 600,000. So it's very obvious that if you mathematically calculate that not everyone wants to go to the end of the payday, not all those on the Euronomists today will be able to clean up their cars with excise aid. One of the basic principles of the Tax Code is equality and nondiscrimination of payers before others. The relevant bill on the extension of the debt period for 90 days before the end of May of this year has been registered by colleagues of Horvath and others. That is why I urge Parliament, however, on the first day of the next plenary week, to adopt this bill so as not to lead the customs situation to absurdity. I personally went through a couple of customs last week. The queues. Therefore, if you want to move in this line, you can pay the wrong reward. There's no way to get information about her when she's formed. These customs terminals, private, don't work the way they should. And what's more, on the customs offices where cars are formed and goods of general use, there are trucks in these queues. Accordingly, companies do not receive raw materials, manufacturing enterprises, and there is a 3-5 day delay in the receipt of raw materials and manufactured products, in the execution of contracts, including export contracts. That's why we don't get our customs payments in January according to the Ministry of Finance's plans. In this regard, I urge the government to intervene immediately. Parliament is to continue the debt period. And I recommend that the government stop imitating reforms and finally make a real tax and customs distribution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u121	30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u122	the work of the inter-agency task force. Because there was only one meeting of this group, which unfortunately had an agreement. Instead, the government decree on the allocation of DFS to customs and tax services remains simple paper. That's why we approved yesterday's Euro-integration, and I ask the government and parliament to approve all the Euro-Integration Laws of the Customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u123	Thank you. And, please, the people's MP Moseschuk is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u124	Dear Ukrainian people! Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Here I am holding in my hands the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court, after which it appeared, and the removal of the position of the city of Kyiv. Uljana Suprun, Minister of Health, has disappeared. Today, there was no representative of the MOHO in the government bed. And to ask about that crazy, scary situation with the crust epidemic in Ukraine, there was no possibility. Instead, government officials, the Suprun itself, and even foreign ambassadors, are pressing, exerting violent pressure on a court that is a criminal offence. And I've already asked the police to violate criminal conduct. They put pressure on Ukrainian society and lie to people that everything will stop if Mrs. Suprun does not embrace the position of director of the MOH prison. In fact, what happened at the MOH? When the Suprun took office, they really rejected the Mafia's pharmaceutical native Bogatyrov and K. But they turned it into an even worse one, a transnational pharmacology mafia. I'm saying this because 400,000 U.S. crust vaccines have been imported into the country, which have been arrested by the U.S. Court. There are medicines imported into the country, cheap drugs are true, but the expiration date is one month or two after they're imported. They bought hepatitis tests in the Russian Federation's aggressor country, and they're analogous to Kiev and Kharkiv. The program proposed by Oleg Lazko and our team in the field of health is not a personal conflict of Suprun, it is a worldwide conflict, but it involves a cost of medicine. And we've put together a whole package of drafts on this. It foresees insurance medicine when the state pays insurance to children, pensioners and underemployed persons, while the employer is to those who work; when doctors get paid on time and the Ukrainians wait on time for a fast one. That's why Easy and our team are fighting for the life and health of every Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u125	Next performance, please. National Deputy Valeria Zarzorko, we invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u126	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, it must be remembered that the Radical Party faction has a consistent state position. We have repeatedly said that we are for real European integration, we are for real energy dependency, for real energy security, because this is the shortest way to political subjectivity, to the country's independence, to a strong country. I would like to remind you that, according to the EU's target, an energy strategy has been approved, which, since early this year, started a reform of the energy sector and introduced a new energy market. What else is important? It is vital that coal is now an integral part of the energy market. The international agency predicts a stable demand for coal over the next 10 years. In Europe today, 25 percent of electricity comes from coal. The U.S. now has its own coal sector under way. What is happening in Ukraine? In Ukraine today, six million tons of coal are missing each year. In Ukraine today, government mines are neglected, where workers have several months of payroll debt, where workers are brought out of the state, where people are starving, where they are borderlined. And as we hear today from the distinguished government officials, there is still no state strategy for getting out of the carbon footprint of the country. For almost five years, these people have been working, and they still don't understand what to do with government mines. It's very simple. The government buys imported coal, it's focused on that. Billions of dollars are spent on stimulating the coal sector abroad; billions of dollars that could be left in the economy of Ukraine; billions of dollars that are spent on importing energy, which has a negative impact on external economic balance and on the stability of the bracelet. This can only be a temporary step, for it is necessary to move on to the energy supply of our own production. Therefore, the Radical Party team proposes a clear plan. These are market pricing mechanisms that will say "no" to corruption and to office pricing; this is the cessation of the criminal practice of discrimination against a domestic producer; this is the adoption of our bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians", which will finally enable them to protect their own Ukrainian miners and do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u127	30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u128	And make sure that Ukrainian miners see the future in their own country so that they can see their children's future in their own country and have stable jobs and decent wages, and the country has energy dependency and its own Ukrainian coal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u129	Please welcome Wadim Novinski to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u130	Dear Ukrainians, yesterday when voting for amendments to the Constitution on the course for NATO and the EU, there were gross violations of the constitutional procedure for the adoption of laws, namely non-personal voting. We've identified several cases of "buttoning" to provide a showcase of 334 votes. The opposition bloc, under the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, immediately requested a draft order to revoke the results of the vote to the Supreme Council's apparatus, but the co-workers of the Supreme Council's apparatus refused to register the decision. These arguments are a cynical misrepresentation of the law that the procedure for the adoption of amendments to the Constitution is not regulated by the general provisions of the Rules on other bills. But this does not mean that such questionable changes to the Constitution, which are protruding through Parliament without an all-U.S. referendum, can be adopted by violating constitutional procedure and by "buttoning". On the other hand, the head of the Supreme Council, Andri Parubay, quickly signed the Law on Amendments to the Constitution, depriving the national deputies of the legitimate right to object to a gross violation of the voting procedure. The government has once again shown that democracy, European values, is a bulwark to cover up gross usurpation and abuse of authority. Instead of adopting important tariff reduction laws, social benefits to strengthen social protection, to end war, and to implement the Minsk Accords, the coalition adopts openly populist laws. No one is waiting for us either in NATO or in the EU. The transition to Eurostandards of the Association Agreement with the EU is already destroying the Ukrainian producer and denying access to the European market, the transition to NATO standards will destroy the domestic military and industrial complex and channel the budget to the purchase of imported equipment. I remind you that the Law on the Basics of Language Policy was repealed by the Constitutional Court a year ago precisely because of buttons. This decision has the power of precedent, so with the constitutional application of such a gross violation of the Basic Law, the Opposition Block will refer to the Constitutional Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u131	Thank you. Please make the next statement. People’s MP Silantiev is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u132	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, we live with you in a very difficult time, many need to solve problems and challenges, to solve many tasks, and we need strength, knowledge, and health to do so. And as for the health issue, here's some good news for you. Thanks to numerous statements from this rostrum of deputies from the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, our demands and the clear, consistent position of our team have enabled us to succeed in the next. This year, in the 19th year, funds were allocated for the financing of the Programme for Reconstruction, Repair and Construction of New Webbing Complexes. Why is this important? Well, first of all, it's the first time since Ukraine's independence, when it's this particular program that has been allocated from the state budget. A simple example. When I was driving as a member of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška in the areas of Ukraine, and I analyzed the situation in the development of sports infrastructure in the regions, it turned out that the last time money was allocated from the state budget for the construction of sports infrastructure, it was 35-40 years later. Imagine the state of these sports complexes and how many of them there are. Second, why is it important to accept this program today for the Ukrainians. The development of sport infrastructure is one of the ways and means of combating the numerical and multimillion-dollar mortality that is now in Ukraine. Imagine that every year there are 220,000 fewer people in Ukraine than there are born, in 2018 this is statistics, that is, in 2018, that people like Ivano-Frankivsky have disappeared. Next. This is an opportunity to cope with the terrible health situation of our young people and our children in Ukraine, and it is also a prevention of child delinquency. Today in Ukraine, there is a great deal of trouble. But Oleg Láška's Radical Party did not stop there, and we are also struggling to preserve the existing infrastructure that remains in Ukraine today: sports palaces, stadiums, manoeuvrings, and much more, so that they will not be demolished or destroyed by the unkind city authorities, so that new shopping centres, gas stations, and so on will not appear in their place. Therefore, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka registered the draft Law on Moratorium to change the target destination of land for the purpose of preserving physical and sports objects. That is why the Radical Party team and Oleg Lazko will continue to do whatever it takes to stop the extinction of our beautiful, talented one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u133	Thank you for your presentation. And the next one, please, is our colleague, Mrs. Oksana Jurinec. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u134	Dear lady, head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Without exaggeration, the changes to the Constitution are a twofold historic step that has been taken in Parliament by this calling. It's very important that we realize that this is a certain stage that is sufficiently strategic. But what else do we need to do on this journey? It is very important that we, as legislators, remember our primary function, that we adopt the necessary laws that will make the vectors of our strategic development a reality. My appeal today is based on the need to prepare Ukraine for the equal membership and alliance of the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. Despite the great way of preparation ahead of us, as legislators, we must clearly understand that the primary task of the Ukrainian Parliament as a legal state is to bring legislation in the field of defence and national security to NATO standards. This is the kind of legal preparation that will give us real mechanisms for strengthening the defence of the state and additional arguments for NATO membership. In this case, there is a need for the formation and development of the territorial defence system. The territorial defence system is close to the NATO member states. It allows not only to strengthen allied borders, but also to strengthen security in member countries. The force of territorial defence in the following NATO member countries is a successful practice: Poland, Great Britain, the United States, Germany, Norway and other countries. As far as Ukraine is concerned, we are in fact a unique state that has the experience of organizing territorial defenses under martial law. For example, in 2014-15, it was the practice of organizing territorial defenses from volunteers that prevented the aggressor from occupying the rest of the Donbas. Today, however, the process of territorial defence requires legislative regulation, where the role of Parliament, fellow members of the national parliament, is crucial. Bills and amendments to some of Ukraine’s laws on improving territorial defence governance have been drafted in Ukraine today. However, a number of bills have long been on the Supreme Council Committee. With a view to optimizing the preparation and conduct of territorial defences that require legislative regulation and. We are asking our delegation to the NATO Assembly to speed up this process. This is very important today for Ukraine, it is very important for our future. "Because crying has not yet given anyone freedom. Only one who fights gets the world." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u135	Thank you for your performance. And our colleague, Yuri Solovay, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u136	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Traditionally on Friday, I take advantage of the opportunity to turn to Parliament’s rostrum about my district’s problems. And usually, in most cases, these references relate to the most problematic issues within the upper, lower, and lower regions of Svetienne and Kosovo. And somehow it's so consistent that half of all my MPs are actually talking about rebuilding and building roads within my district. That's why today's speech is going to be about this issue. And I'm going to ask the secretariat and the chairman to present my statement in the form of an official MP's address to the Minister of Infrastructure and Head of the Johno-Frankow District Authority. Despite the fact that over the last few years, I believe we have managed to make a major breakthrough in road construction, in the mountainous region, this is also the Kosovina road, and the Stopchats – Kosov, Kosov – Corners, Kuta – Tudev road, and the Ivano-Frankivsk road from Chernovs within the Sveti district. But unfortunately, I have to say that compared to the length of the roads that are within these three areas, the roads that are repaired are within 20 percent of the roads that are needed for repair. Of course, it's practically nothing, and what is clear to us in 2019, if we want to raise these areas even higher, we need to put the road-recovery issue back in focus. That's why I'm going to the Minister of Infrastructure first and foremost in 2019 to include in the list of roads that will be repaired, the road P24 within the Krivopil Pass, which is in a terrible state. I ask you to include in the list of roads P62 within the Usterika and within the village of Tudev, which also. which have not been completed in their repairs and need to be repaired. Obviously, we've been talking about the Pistin-Kosmach road for years, which clearly needs to be included within the Johno-Frankov area by the leadership of the Johno-Frankow District Authority. Rožniv – Kuti, Stetsev – Budilev, Jurov – Illinci and Tulukov – Stetsev – are the main highways that need to be included in the planning and listing of work on the reconstruction and construction of roads within the Verkhovinsk, Kosovsk and Svetnski districts. I hope that my official address will be reflected in the relevant decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the orders of the head of the Johno-Frankow District State Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u137	Thank you. And the people’s deputy, Derevyanko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. We are unheard of, the power of the deaf to us today, the system of deafness to all of us today, it does not hear when we demand to stop robbing our families, when we demand justice in the courts, when we demand to stop the abuse of officials, the authorities do not hear millions of Ukrainians, millions of our voices demanding the right to live and work in Ukraine. The power is particularly deaf to those who are active and active, because they cannot be bought in elections, they cannot "inhale" any cheap promises, they better not be seen or heard at all. But there are millions of Ukrainians who want to live, work in Ukraine, have children, raise them, and go nowhere from Ukraine. Including entrepreneurs who want to remove unnecessary licenses that want the same competition rules that want to protect property rights. And I demand a stop test before we decide to carry out a real liberal tax reform. Including the car owners, and we've long understood that a car is not a means of wealth or a means of wealth, and that's a means of moving. And my position here is very clear: 10 percent of the cost of sweeping cars. We are, among other things, the wage earners that we are forced to invest more than $11 billion in Ukraine today, but we have actually been deprived of voting rights when we are Ukrainians. So my position is clear: e-vote, as well as post voting for our employees who are abroad. We are the owners of weapons, including weapons. And my position is that we have the right to defend our lives, health, health, and the lives of our family in our home. We're also active women. Officially, women are more than men in Ukraine, but the fact is that women today are not represented in higher levels of authority. So my position is very simple -- 50 percent of women in power to protect the interests of women, the interests of many families, the interests of single mothers. We're animal-protectors, too. And you know that today it's animal advocates who are fighting for it and catching those doghunters and other people who are cruel to animals, actually destroying them, so my position is Ukraine without cruelty. We're IT entrepreneurs. And you know perfectly well that in the whole world this is the sector that is moving the economy forward. So my position is the best conditions for the IT sector, 0 percent of tax for 10 years for the market is encrypted. We're environmental activists. You know the ecological catastrophe we have. The disease increased by 35 to 40 percent. And at 10, at 20, 25 times the amount of harmful substances in many cities. Dear colleagues. Can I have 10, 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u139	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, this system that can't hear us, this power that can't hear us, says only one thing: that today we don't need to reform this system, we need to rebuild the system. We have to take a monopoly into the oligarchs for power, a monopoly for the economy, a monopoly for the media, a monopoly for politics. We need to make sure that in 2019 we do not give any absolute votes for those who want to support this system. It's in our hands. We can do this. Let us unite. And let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u141	Thank you. Please welcome National Deputy Krivenko Victor. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u142	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians, we see money all over Ukraine for you and me hanging billboards that say "Grysman's government." In Frankivsk, I saw three billboards of very important brass on a mile [1 km] away. It's a very important idea: Decentralization. A new stage." Of course, it made us all better to live. I want to give you an example of one such decentralization. This is the town of Zastavna, the Chernivecka District, 19 kilometers from the Chernivci, where the elections took place on 29 April last year, where the People's Movement of Ukraine took first place, our faction -- 24.7 percent. The mayor, supported by us, won the prize with almost 80 percent of our votes. And the district authorities, the district government, are doing everything they can to prevent a successful united territorial community. They don't pass the gym, they don't even pass the bus to a school that's already been transferred to OTG. And now there's no way to get the kids from the village next door. On one occasion, his family’s restaurant was burned to the head of the city. Tonight, at half past three, two young people were again set on fire. And I ask the presiding officer to form an order to form my address to the Attorney General's Office, to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, and to the head of the district administration as an appeal for them to respond to this crime. And I urge Mr. Pavluk -- there's a young acting head of the Montenegrin district administration -- to take over his own personal control and to have the decentralization that the President, the Prime Minister, the Supreme Council, who voted for it, which really brings about important improvements in their lives to make it work, and specifically in the town of Zastavanni, where they didn't win the faction, but the opposition faction won to let them develop normally. I'm being approached by our Smiley motorists. The first is the question of re-election as the city's head, the city council. We spent more than a thousand braves there, and we unanimously decided to call off all the deputies. We succeeded with the active position of the public sector, the other political forces that the government saw, at the government meeting, we raised the issue, and the Prime Minister gave the order, the President gathered. The gas was released, but the debts continue to hang on to the city. We need to keep this situation quiet, for as soon as it gets warm, the brave will be forgotten again. And now there's a very serious problem in Smyla. In fact, the road is completely ruined and all the cars are passing through the city. I'm asking Mr. Welbowitz, the head of the district administration, the minister of the infrastructure of Omelan, to immediately take control of this situation. It's about two kilometers away, a section of this road, and there's techno-hazardous cargo, there's ammonia, and it's all going through the city. And that really threatens a huge catastrophe.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u143	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u144	I'm asking for an address to the Welbian and to the minister also to give the order to form. Poltava’s question. I've been talking to law enforcement, and I've been talking publicly, and I've been talking about how they overpaid 2.4 million dollars on garbage trucks. Now we're looking at information, and as soon as it does, I'm going to have materials, I'm, by the way, addressing all the journalists, activists, give corruption materials all over Ukraine. So, in Poltava, now they've bought two tractors -- and they've overpaid a million dollars. I'm referring to the head of the district administration, to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u145	Thank you. And, please, Egor Sobolev is now invited to the floor. Please. Yes, and I'm asking you to make the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenk as a parliamentary address. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u146	I'd like to use the parliamentary rostrum today to get everyone's attention to Sergey Mironyuk's fate. He's a cyanide, by trade, a stockbroker, a volunteer for this war for independence. And now, according to everything, he's in danger of being executed. Sergey, like many other residents of the Darnicki district of Kiev, advocates the preservation of a unique green zone and the conversion of it into the Economist of Osocorca. And on Monday he noticed two large men on a large car who had begun to threaten him openly, and on Tuesday he continued to follow him around the city. Since you know how many recent attacks have taken place on activists who are demanding compliance with the law against injustice, we have recommended that Sergey file a complaint with the National Police, and asked him who he thinks might want to settle it. I ask the head of the National Police, Sergey Knaziev, to draw attention to the written address of the citizen. We don't need another death in Kiev or in Ukraine, another attempt to punish an activist. So I also want to go to the people who might be behind these threats and behind this surveillance: don't repeat the fate of the buyers of the murder of Catherine Gandzük, don't go beyond the law, because there are so many people behind Sergei, very many volunteers, very many activists, very many other concerned Ukrainians who don't forgive any wrongdoing against such a person. I hope everything's going to be okay with the cyanide, with the activist, with the volunteer. I'm sure a lot of people have to tell this story to show that Sergei isn't alone. And let this all end well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u147	Thank you. And there is the invitation of the national MP John Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u148	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Of course, we are very showingcased on Fridays, all quietly, listening intently. Even if that were the way the session went in, it would be very, very nice. And even yesterday's changes we accepted in the Constitution, regardless of what some here say is that someone voted for someone. Well, maybe so, but maybe not at the same time. But, at the same time, this one voice doesn't decide anything, especially that we voted for these changes. And thank God that the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, has achieved with us what these changes in the Constitution are. I would like to turn to you very much, because we've been creeping into national deputies, not now, of course, but about fifteen. And I'd really like them to get together and talk so that we don't pass out on our districts, we don't pour dirt on each other, we talk funny from this rostrum. Because we know perfectly well, and our voters ask that question, those who are a national MP, if he comes out of the rostrum and tells lies and puts dirt on someone, he'll have nothing to do with it, because he's got nothing to do with it. So I would like those who are looking at our speeches from the rostrum, if that's not true, to at least distinguish between truth and falsehood. In March months, as has already been established by the government, there will be payments in the cash form of gas subsidies that our voters, our people in the villages, and others have not received. But I think it really takes a lot of control here. Because we know perfectly well, in the villages people get quite small pensions, of course we understand that, and every single penny is going to be expensive to every person, so that these coins, these costs could be used for other purposes and save the gas they're given. Because even the price of 3.50 gas is insurmountable for the villagers. For residents of the village the price is 1 bracelet 20, 1 bracelet 50, up to two bracelets, as it is, as people pay for subsidies, so it should be. I'd like to say a few more words, again for the road, and there's a lot of talk and talk about these roads. Yes, of course, the roads are very bad, and we understand that very well, and I have repeatedly spoken for Winnitzkin, the Tomaspil region, the Way of the limestone, the High-Crižopil, no one wants to hear. I'm talking about bad roads today, because bad roads, now enough roads, I'm talking about roads that don't exist at all. Because that's the national meaning of the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u149	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u150	She's just not there. And on the bad roads you can drive, another six months old, and on a road that doesn't matter in general, and it doesn't matter in any way, so I think no one can drive there anymore, and it's a central road again on Odessa, on Moldova, on Chisinau. And we're showing an example, and people are coming back from this place, going 100 kilometers further. So I would very much like it to be my turn from the rostrum again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u151	Thank you. I'm asking you to make the speech of the national MP John Sporish as a parliamentary address. Now, please, Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I call you with such interesting information. In 2017, KP "Pleso" and KP Kyivzelenbud received 900 million coins in recent months for greening parks and cleaning lakes. In November and December, 900 million dollars. Without a doubt, they handled the money. Moreover, after we calculated the cost of the greenery in Kiev, it was realized that the average value of one square metre of the park was worth 22,000 dollars to the Chinese. It's the same price that some builders now have in one meter. 900 million dollars is almost 900 apartments for athogists, it's a solution for multi-child families. It's a very interesting story at all. For example, in Troy, 269 million were also allocated in December for the greening of the area. 269 million dollars is what a school in 20 or 24 microregion has been talking about for decades, it's our money with you, and it's very interesting where that money went. Because, you know, when money is spent in the winter, it is absorbed, and then no one can figure out how it happened, it will happen over and over again. I want to speak to Mr. Habakkuk's Home Secretary, and I want to speak to the mayor of Kiev, Mr. Klick, so they can take control. I want this to be registered as my deputy’s request to verify the legality of these actions, so that they can find out where the money went, so that it doesn’t happen in 2019, and the people who were involved in these schemes have been punished, because the personnel, the families, the names, the jobs behind every waste. And if we don't punish those who embezzle government money, municipal money, our money with you, the country will never change anything except words. So once again, I turn to Habakkuk and Klitschka: Deal with the matter, for 900 million dollars in December for Kiev’s greenery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u153	Thank you. I would like you to make a presentation by the national deputy of Bereza as a matter of law. And now the national deputy of the Sauka is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Sauka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u154	Thank you, Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I want to address the Prime Minister of our country, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. It's a very important question that concerns our army. First of all, I would like to thank you for the positive solution of a series of issues for our army, namely the solution to the food problem, the provision of an officer's warehouse when they perform their tasks, for the tasks of daytime military officers who are at the field exit. Unfortunately, however, the issue of providing day - to - day food for military personnel was left out of the question. Daily meal is a meal, hot food at a permanent location in a stationary dining room. Please note this question and make some changes to the current legislation of our country of Ukraine so that the conditions for officers, seniors, sergeants and contract soldiers are equal. I also want to go to the media, to journalists. At present, it is no secret that there is an information war going on, and some questionable TV channels use it to wage an information war, including against officers, against warlords and commanders, who have shown themselves in their actions in warfare, in war with an aggressor, with a Moscow aggressor. That's why I'm calling, noble, expensive journalists, no matter how long there's no court ruling, we shouldn't be pointing to Moscow as far as those officers who are currently deciding by the law enforcement agencies are concerned, so that's not the case. Whoever is doing this is doing it on Moscow's hand. Starting with the High Commander to the ultimate soldier serving in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, no one has the right to use them in their own interests. I also refer to certain presidential candidates who want to become the Supreme Commander of our country. In addition, I also have a number of questions. This is a matter for a promise made back in 2017, opening a point of entry between Ukraine and the Republic of Poland in the Lviv region, the Turkov region, the village of Lopushanka. Please, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, take a look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u155	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u156	I ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider and give an answer. I ask that these questions, which have now been answered, consider the matter to be the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u157	Thank you. And here's a word for the people's deputy Kuprienko. Please, Mr. Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u158	Oleg Kuprienko. The Radical Party faction of Oleg Ljaška is the only faction in the Supreme Council that is currently working in the workplace that is in parliament and trying. Which is almost complete. There are 2 representatives of the Opposition Block, 2 of the BPP, 3 of the Self-Help and 2 of the Non-Factions. That's what you get, the TV and the radio, the power, that's what you get. Today we watched an hour of questions to the government. Yesterday, when the decision was made on the subject. In Europe, in the EU and NATO, everyone came, everyone took pictures, everyone told us how friendly we were here to save everyone and go all the way to Europe. Today, when the "hour of questions to the government" is to be answered, when to tell how people's rights are protected, there is no Prime Minister, no First Deputy Prime Minister, no key ministers of fuel and energy, no power ministers who are to be held accountable for what they are going to say about how they are going to be held accountable for bribery in the elections. Nobody's here. I go to the managers and I say, "Do you know the structure of the same Naftogazu?" What is Gaztek, which controls and sells almost 90 percent of the gas market?".. They say, "No, we don't know that." People good, all over the country, the Light Team is driving now, talking to people, and the first question they're asking us, not even the question, but the eye says, "Here's your power, here's your protection. Here's the 1900 dollars a month's worth of gas and here's 2,600 pensions. Here's 48 copies of the pension that the authorities made." This government? No, Your Honor, it's a lack of authority. It's a disgrace. This is a disgrace to the Ukrainian people. It's that you come and vote for 200 bucks or a kilo of Greek, and then you ask why life is so bad. That's why it's so bad to live, it's not worth a pound of Greek, it's not worth 200 bucks. Now, the truth is, they say that for a thousand dollars, they've been handing out presidential candidates and signing some papers. It's probably a little over 200. But people are good. Open your eyes. If you want to get not a thousand bracelets before the election once and for five years, but at least a thousand dollars a pension allowance every month for five years, and if your fate isn't too heavy, vote for Easy. Vote for the Radical Party team, which will lead Ukraine to a bright future. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u159	Please make the next statement. National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u160	Irina Sisoyenko, Self-Help Unit. Under the New Year’s tree, the government once again gave a gift to private entrepreneurs, this time a small business that barely survives and provides people in the village with the opportunity to obtain medical supplies. The amendments to the Tax Code are subject to the obligation of natural persons entrepreneurs who carry out retail trade in medical supplies and medical devices to apply accounting transactions in their activities. On February 1, I met with these private entrepreneurs who came from all over Ukraine. And they say that today they cannot, under the conditions in which they work, create the right conditions as to how they are obliged by such changes. Hundreds of appeals have been made to the national MPs of all political powers to support them and not to allow us to destroy today that small business that does an extremely important thing – it provides medical means for people living in the village. Today, such an initiative is essentially impossible to implement because there are problems with light in the village because there is no Internet in the village today, so it is technically impossible to install cashiers. Also, cashiers cost 11,000 dollars each month, and their monthly service costs 3,000 dollars a month. And this is an extremely high financial burden, which today can only lead to one: that pharmacies that belong to natural persons entrepreneurs will just start to be massively closed all over Ukraine. And, in fact, it's the huge desire of the owners of large pharmacy networks. They are now interested in completely destroying the natural persons who are entrepreneurs and in completely monopolizing the market for the sale of medicines. So essentially, the government creates the right conditions for a monopoly to happen even on important issues for people, such as selling medicine. I also want to give some important figures that today, in small villages, where drugstores are not interesting to networks, even though pharmacies that belong to business entities have an important social mission, because pharmacies are 30-40 bracelets of the average check. And when we say that pharmacies are going to belong to large pharmacies, today the average online pharmacy check is 400-500 bracelets. So we have to understand that with such an initiative, if the natural entrepreneurs are not able to work and maintain the right pharmacies, and this is going to be the property of large drug networks, then the question of the value of the drugs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u161	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u162	It's going to get bigger. So I put a bill in place to cancel the cashiers for corporate individuals who sell medical supplies and medical supplies. And I believe that as soon as the next parliamentary week, we all have to unite and vote in favour of small business and, above all, in favour of the patient’s interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u163	Thank you. And the National Deputy Igor Shurma is invited to the floor. Mr. Igor, please. I'm sorry. People's MP Martovicki's taking the floor. I'm sorry. And then there's Igor Storm. Mr. Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u164	Dear citizens of Ukraine, I was forced to speak today by another Order of the Cabinet of Ministers dated 16 January of this year at number 14. It allocates an additional grant for the implementation of public budget expenditure for the maintenance of education and health facilities among local budgets in 2019. According to the appendix, the Dnipropetrov region received 809.2 million dollars in grants, of which 73.9 per cent is almost 600 million, to the district budget; 3.6 per cent, 30 million in the district; 4.5 per cent, 36 million in the OTG budgets; and 18.1 per cent in the district budget, almost 146.5 million dollars remained unallocated. At the same time, the budgets of the suburban cities did not receive a penny. Only in the city of Pavlovgrad, located in the territory of my 36th constituency in the formation of the 2019 budget, did the lack of medical subsidies to maintain health facilities account for 42 million dollars, of which only the wages of 9.2 million dollars and the planned cost of drugs were 2 million. I ask the Prime Minister personally with the question: for what or whose reasons does the district budget receive almost 75 per cent of the total amount of the grant, with a reserve of 18.1 per cent? Some crumbs will receive district OTGs, and cities will be left without subsidies at all. I hope that this arrangement is accepted -- I would like to point out, already during the presidential election campaign -- does not have the political subtext to force, with the aim of purposeful pressure from the government and the heads of the district governments on some managers and communities, and cities, chief physicians and medical personnel of hospitals, directors and educators of education to support one of the candidates through the granting or non-subsidisation of grants, because the large deficits of city budgets in the execution of government-delegated budgets pose a threat to timely payments of salaries and to the deterioration of the conditions for the maintenance of these municipal institutions. That is why, taking into account the appeals made to me by the city councils located in my constituency, cities, as representatives of the West Donbas communities in the Supreme Council, I demand that the Prime Minister personally initiate the distinction between this ambiguous order and January 16 at number 14, a review and a fair redistribution of the amount of grants required by the budgets of the cities of the district subordination of the Dnipropetrov area for the full implementation of their delegated powers. This was made up of a request. But I demand the Prime Minister's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u165	Thank you. And the National Deputy Igor Shurma is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u166	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I will show you how the absence of a minister of health leads to lies, to death and to, excuse me, lies. Over the course of three years, 72 thousand people have suffered from measles. I would like to remind you that in 2018 there were more than 50,000 patients in Ukraine. This is more than twice that in all countries of the European Union. We've got an epidemic out there and we've got action? No, it's not. What led to this? This led to the paradox that today the crust flash is in the Ministry of Health. 12 guards, 2 lawyers, 3, I suspect, and 1 assistant to Ulyana Suprun are skin patients. And that's because quite recently, you've seen photographs and reports as a temporary performer of Suprun's duties under the cells showing that "I'm vaccinated and the entire apparatus of the Ministry of Health is vaccinated." This is the beginning of this. Besides, it's 30 deaths. Children, women, young women of childbearing age -- these are all consequences, I don't invent, non-professional work. Moreover, the lie begins when the case is in court and is removed from office. The following is a message from Suprun: "My absence will result in 619 million dollars purchased from the 2019 budget, not being distributed and people suffering from various diseases." So I'd like to say that in 2019 no one made any money, no one bought anything. Moreover, on February 11, only a permanent working group of activists under Stefanish’s headship, a deputy, will sit down and determine who will be buying drugs in 2019. Think of who will be buying drugs in 2019! Where's ProZorro, where's the tender? At that time, Suprun is going to America with a work visit, it's not clear why, but when, you know, they're going to choose organizations, it's going to come -- and it's probably going to be the result of who's buying. Where else is the lie? The lie is that by Order 1505 of the 17th year, there has been an order issued by the MoH to grant the right to sign contracts. So you can sign them. Moreover, on 13.06.2018 Order 1114 is a distribution of medicines for post-transplant patients. Order 1754 in the 18th year is the distribution of TB drugs, anti-tuberculosis drugs, and vaccines, and that's all under the signature of the deputy minister. So you can allocate. Why fool people? And the last. If this person is supported by the President of Ukraine, he will support the Cabinet of Ministers, the Head of the Supreme Council, the civil activists, the people, put her in the room, vote for her, and let someone be responsible for what is happening today in Ukraine in security. Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u167	Thank you. And the people's deputy, Oleg Osuhovsky, is invited to the floor. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u168	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday we voted on the changes to the Constitution, namely, the strategic direction of Ukraine towards the European Union and NATO. But this is one of the first steps, and we still have a lot of work to do, which is what our international partners require -- real reforms, real fight against corruption, real bills voted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are the new electoral legislation behind open lists and a proportional system -- this is the removal of parliamentary immunity, this is the Law on Temporary Investigations, Special Commissions, the Law on the impeachment of the President, free-standing important economic bills, which are about the return of stolen money from offshore. And it is estimated that between $120 billion and $150 billion have been stolen and exported to offshore by various experts today. We need all that money back, we need to put it into the economy of the state, and we need to develop our state. And as for the elimination of private oligarchic monopolies, because oligarchs today privatized especially energy in Ukraine and dictated, in particular, the prices of utilities and tariffs, we have another law that allows strategic energy enterprises such as oligarchs, archergics, gas distribution systems to be returned to the hands of Ukrainians, the Ukrainian state. Then there'll be a gas market, then there'll be an electricity market, and there won't be such high tariffs that the oligarchs and the authorities dictate today. And accordingly, we have to vote in the future budget at least 5 percent of GDP for the Ukrainian military so that we can move on to NATO standards, and thus protect Ukraine from the Russian aggressor, from Putin. I think that if there's a faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union in the future Parliament, if we don't vote in this convening, then we and the Ukrainians will do everything we can to get the faction and all these bills voted. I think so. We will move to the European Union and NATO to ensure that the Ukrainians and Ukraine have this collective security and are protected from the external aggressor of Russia and Putin. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor. If I understand correctly, we have two speeches left. This is National Deputy Rudik and Mrs Vojtsiecka. No, it's not. One left the show. Two speeches, National Deputy Rudik and.. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, we are few, but I think that the people who watch us on TV will learn the truth that, despite the fact that the war has been fought for almost five years by the entire Ukrainian people with our ancient aggressor, there are many issues that have not yet been solved for the people who have fought, fought and might still fight. Literally last year, we voted in this session room, in the fall, a bill that is already the norm of the law that violated the norm, antihuman in its essence, when fighters who lost part of the leg, hands, fingers in the war had to periodically pass the so-called LFC in order to confirm that he didn't have to grow up. Idiotism squared! But because of official negligence, because of some people who should have done it long ago, decided to write in any decision in any legislative act, it was only made in the fall of last year. Literally in the autumn of last year, when we solved this problem, I was approached by a militant from Smila, a disabled group II, who also had the right to obtain two certificates: both a participant in combat and a disabled person in combat. And according to the law, a person had to choose whether to keep one to himself or the other. Would it seem that there is a reason for the problem? Well, the husband chose a certificate that he was a war invalid, and a bold dot or a exclamation mark could be placed on him. But there was a problem: his daughter, having the full right to a social scholarship, studying in one of the Kiev universities, got a write-off from the rectorate of this institution, or from the National Design University, that she had no right to this social scholarship because she couldn't give a copy of her dad's war card. And I explained why: because he has a different ID -- a disabled person in the war, the same war. But it is better later than never, under which there is no water flowing. I think many Ukrainians have heard these sayings. On January 23, 2019, the government adopted amendments to Decree No. 44, which placed a mark on the issue for the fifth year of war. On the one hand, I would like to say thank you to Deputy Prime Minister Rosenk, whom I have personally addressed with this question. I would like to thank Minister Reva and perhaps all of this government. But why so long? Why do we have so long to solve these problems that we should have solved long ago? And in the end, I thank all the participants in the fighting for the first time they made a feat for our nation and stood up for our land. And second, because they keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor, for your statement. And the last one for today. Please, Paul Kishkar. I continue our meeting for two minutes so that Mr. Paul will have the opportunity to finish his speech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u172	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, a few brief questions. Let's start with what happened yesterday. The People's Movement, with its history and its actions, reaffirms its desire, and by its political agenda, reaffirms Ukraine's desire to join the EU and NATO. However, a whole range of actions by the authorities and the Commander-in-Chief sometimes contradicts these aspirations, particularly the recent correct Ordinance on the Establishment of the General Staff of the Armed Forces partially contradicts the adopted and approved and signed President of the National Security Act of Ukraine and directly contradicts the J-structure, which is a NATO standard and defines the governing bodies, and the structure of the NATO command headquarters. Therefore, we pay attention to this and ask that we bring the President's current decrees into line with NATO standards. A brief account of the boys who are in prison carrying out their direct military duty on the line of contact with the Russians. The military prosecutor's office, which you and I have approved and accepted, structured and given appropriate powers, duly confirmed, abused frequently by their authority, and a number of military personnel in one way or another are drawn to criminal articles for responsibility, some of them are just behind bars for over a year, and in no way do their cases lead to a logical end, not brought to trial. In particular, according to my information, the case that is being heard at the Lysican City Court, Lashenko and Kuzmin, the Lieutenant Colonels of the Armed Forces, who have been working during a period of hostilities with the Russian Federation in Sector A, are still being held in custody, are not investigating the case itself, are not bringing it to trial. It's very strange, and let's say to Mr. Mathios why these things are being heard in the east. Let us convey, in order for the truth to be true, where they are engaged in military service, we can quietly conduct this hearing. My last appeal is to the Security Service with information about the crime committed by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Mr. Yuri Stankevich, who is not investigating the theft of over 500 million Ukreximbank bracelets by Novinski. We insist that the case against Yuri Stankevitch be initiated, we are all the information we need, and I am personally willing to testify and provide information on the inaction of the Henprocurator. And to Mrs. Freez as to the man who calls.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u173	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u174	And to Mrs. Fries, who is the minister of veterans, and to whom is full of human respect, to the men of appeal: you're looking for funds for the Ministry of Veterans -- here they are, take them, investigate the case, bring it to a logical conclusion, because today this money is working against Ukraine, against the state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-08-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, let me remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees, commissions and factions. Let me draw the attention of both the national MPs present and the colleagues who watch the broadcasts on television on the radio that the main work on the bill is being done on the committees. And we have violent cases where some committees can't gather quorum for months because of unemployment, the irresponsibility of Ukrainian national deputies. We very much hope that the following week, all national deputies will attend the meetings of their own committees and work constructively on the draft laws. During the week of February 18 - 22, national deputies work with voters. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, February 26, and will begin, as usual, at ten o’clock. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And thank you very much to all colleagues, to all the factions that on Thursday showed constructiveness, responsibility, and good work. As far as I'm concerned. Also on February 19, a special session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held to commemorate the memory of the fallen Heroes of the Celestial 100 and the years of the destruction of the Heroes of the Celestial Sotny. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
