ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, are your colleagues ready? I'd like you to sign up, please. [[12:04:03]] 222 national deputies registered. Colleagues, please take part in the registration, please register to attend the meeting. Please register, let's register. Please register. [[12:04:37]] Registered -208 Dear colleagues! I do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Attention! I want to report that according to the law in force. Under the current law, the session may begin without registration 226, so there is no point in not registering. I'll start the session anyway, colleagues. So, colleagues, this is, once again, non-registration, non-registration, it's still starting. And so, colleagues, that's ridiculous. I'm asking you to take part in the registration. Please prepare to register and pick up your cards. I emphasize that this is a plenary session, and I'm going to start it, no matter how many MPs are registered. And that's why I'm asking everyone to participate in the registration, colleagues. Please be prepared. My colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that under the current law, I can start a session without having to register 226. So I'm going to run the registration again. If it's not 226, I'll start the session anyway. So, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, this is a plenary meeting. So once again, I ask the National Deputies to register to participate in the extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please register. Let's register. Everyone, please take part. [[12:07:28]] 240 national deputies registered. And in response to the demand of the President of Ukraine to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part eight of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I now declare open the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, I have two messages to make. The first is today 140 years since the birth of the Chief Ottoman of the troops and the fleet of the UNR Simon Petluri. [[Applause]] And so tomorrow, May 23, the Ukrainians will celebrate Hero Day. On this day of 38th year, a Bolshevik agent in Rotterdam killed UN leader Eugene Konovaltz. Neither Petlura nor Konovalec would have offered the Ukrainians a referendum on reconciliation with Russia. These men fought with Russia, fought for Ukraine. [[Applause]] I recommend that the President and his team learn a good lesson in Ukrainian history and not seek ways to surrender to Russia. For those of you who offer to make peace with Russia, I will remind you: on May 22, 14, I was then the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, at the Ukrainian Walnbach, the Russians brutally and cynically shot down a column of the Ukrainian 51 brigade. The 18 Ukrainians were then tragically killed. Let us not allow the lives of thousands of Ukrainians to be in vain. And we pay tribute to the moment of silence to all who died in the struggle for the Ukrainian state. We won't betray them! Please, a minute of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Next message, colleagues. I have to say it. Yesterday we held consultations of factions' heads with the President of Ukraine, Zelenski. On about five occasions I asked the President of Ukraine why he planned to sign the decree on the dissolution of parliament. I demanded that there be a stenographer, and I heard only one answer that he felt that the coalition had not existed for two years. Once again, I read very carefully the powers of the President of Ukraine as enshrined in the Constitution. I read twice. I did not find among his powers of authority to establish or declare the existence of a coalition. By the way, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has no such authority. For me, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there was only one fact: when on May 17, 19th, the coalition itself announced its dissolution from this rostrum, that's the only fact, and from that point on began the constitutional term of 30 days for the formation of a new coalition. And we are actually in the constitutional process of forming a coalition. I believe that the decree on the dissolution of Parliament is contrary to the existing Constitution. So I said yesterday, and I repeat now, from this point on, I will act exclusively within the legislative powers. Very anxious. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have always acted and will continue to act. I have always acted and will continue to act. I would like to point out that, to my profound conviction, the President's decree is not only a violation of the Constitution, but a introduction of Ukraine into the constitutional crisis. The warring Ukraine was brought into a constitutional crisis. I understand that the President's decree as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot be stopped, nor can it stop the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only a court can determine its conformity with the Constitution. I know that the National Deputies are planning to address the Constitutional Court, and I support this initiative by the Ukrainian National Deputies. I understand that the decision of the Constitutional Court may be later than the election itself. But, at the same time, I am convinced that, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I must give a political assessment to this decree and say that its author will be responsible both by law and before the people of Ukraine. Everything will come its own time, one president has already begun his actions as a result of a violation of the Constitution. Now, colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have received an address where there have been two drafts for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Under Ukrainian law, I immediately signed an order to convene an extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But in parallel, I have sent a letter asking you to clarify what laws Mr. President wants us to consider here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One of the bills was filed two hours ago, and it's registered. The second was filed at 11:45, but unfortunately it was filed with a very harsh violation of the Rules, where both the electoral system and public procurement were envisaged in one law. But we're doing everything we can. [[B in m in s a l in]] But we are now helping the representative of the President to comply with the law of submission. And as soon as they get it right, it's gonna be registered right now, this law. I think it's going to be in 30 minutes, which is going to be given according to the law. And while a representative of the newly elected president is bringing the bill into line with the Constitution, I think it'll make sense for us to have a discussion. And that's why I'm asking the Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to discuss the situation. Three minutes. Please record for the discussion. Please. I'll give the post-frophylactics 15 minutes later. 15 minutes. I'm respectable, non-factional. Please record. Please record the factions on the stand. Please sign up. From "The Opposition Block" to the word "Head of the Opposition Block" Wadim Novinsky. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, fellows, pay attention! - I'm sorry. Colleagues, I've been over the record by the MPs. I'm asking the factions to record. From factions, colleagues. I'm asking you to record from the factions, then it'll be from the deputies. First entry from factions, be careful! I'd like you to re-write it. From factions. From Peter Dustenk's Block. Put it on the board, please. What's the problem with the Council system? Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the "Peter Prashenko" faction, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Arthur, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u2	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! Yesterday, the newly elected President signed an order for the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. The faction of Peter Dustenka's Party "Solidarity" is now fully ready for the parliamentary elections for the term. We are ready for Parliament's election and organizationally, and most importantly, meaningfully. But I would like to remind you that this decree -- and here I fully support the position of Parliamentary head Andria Paruba -- is in grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And at the meeting, at the consultations of the newly elected president with the faction leaders, everyone talked about it under the transcript. Regarding the "fire" changes to electoral legislation. The proposed "façade" changes that no one has seen, among other things, because this bill we wanted to get in advance, but unfortunately no one understands that it will not only improve electoral legislation or strengthen democratic standards, but rather what we know will even make them worse. Quick law correction initiators leave a key issue – the closure of party lists. Whatever the system, mixed, major or proportional, the lists should be open! This is reform. Everything else is her imitation or pure water political conjuncture. And the proposed downsizing of the barrier to 3 percent creates a situation of political irresponsibility and can be the way to Ukraine’s political disintegration, to Parliament’s regional political projects, and to pocket parties financed by oligarchs. I would like to point out that the process of change to electoral legislation should take place in clear compliance with the Rules and procedures of Parliament. The changes in electoral legislation should also take place in line with the international standards of the OSCE, as stated by the Central Election Commission. The established international practice in democratic countries does not foresee a change in electoral legislation later than a year before the elections, much more than a few weeks before the elections. A proportional system with closed lists is big corruption. This is what society tells us. So our faction will not support this bill. The faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko "Solidarity" believes that the Supreme Council should be focusing on the second reading of the Electoral Code as soon as possible, to find the optimal model of open lists and to support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u3	Thank you, Mr. Herasimov. And here's an invite from Anton Yatzenko, who represents the position of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u4	Dear voters, the honorable leadership of the Supreme Council and a fellow MP! Ukraine today has a clear desire for the European Union, and we have even established it in the Constitution. By all European standards today, legislation cannot change even a year before the elections, let alone two months. But we want to look at the following as an official rebirth group. We have today, I'm saying for the transcript, we have a number of bills: 7366-1 and so on, 7 of them -- registered back in December of 17th. So any bill that points and changes the electoral system will essentially be an alternative. And since it's been two weeks, he's not allowed to register. Secondly, we cannot deal with this law today because, according to the Rules, every national MP -- and I ask that for the transcription -- as well as myself as a national MP, we have the opportunity to submit an alternative bill within 14 days. That is why we cannot consider it today. Instead, what I'm saying is that today we're offered an atrial thing -- this electoral system is called closed when party bosses are actually going to form a list, and we're going to see guards, drivers, secretaries and even masseuses here again, as it once was. So it's all just nonsense, and all the political forces, when they go to the elections, have declared some major system, some system behind open lists. And I'll remind you that we accepted with you on the first reading of the Electoral Codex. And today they're just trying to push through here, actually a coup to do -- and bring us back to when there's no parliament, there's going to be boards like stock companies. That's why we can't vote for it. It cannot be registered under the Rules at all today, for it takes 14 days, even if it is already registered. And we can't vote for the things that today put Ukraine at risk because we're actually going to kill democracy in this way. So the Rebirth Group is not going to be participating and supporting in this adventure anyway. Thank you for your attention. And I urge all my colleagues not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u5	Thank you for the state's position. And he's invited to the word of Oleg Beresuk. Please, Mr. Beresuk. He represents the position of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u6	Politics. Politics to serve people in their interests. Ukrainian politics, which is now in this Parliament, serves only a few people in the country who rob Ukrainian people. And today it is this policy that is resisting. What difference does it make: July 21st or October 21st? The difference is you want to rob the Ukrainian state even more during the 3-4 months. What's the difference between a major and a proportion? And because the majority of Ukrainians are costing hundreds of billions of dollars to seniors who vote for the budgets. That's what the resistance is today in this system of things. Pure proportion is a return to justice when people can. [[B in m in s a l in]] Would you like to open the lists? Open lists, each batch, print on all media. Weak? [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. Here's the resistance. Now for the war. Now for the war. War and peace. War and peace. And power is chosen only to protect people from the aggressor. Today, Ukraine under Russia’s aggression has occupied territories. And not by referendums should it be protected, but by a quality army that is provided by an economy and a quality soldier. And you don't have to yell here right now, because that's why the authorities are here. And now for the economy. Two thirds of these who cry for open or closed lists serve oligarchs, oligarchs, and oligarchs. And today, if the President of Ukraine does not take away the oligarchs of power, he will be deprived of power by the Ukrainian people. Now for the punishment. If the President does not punish those who have robbed the Ukrainian national idea for five years and do not punish those who brought the war to Ukraine in 2013-2014, he will be punished by the Ukrainian people. And this is the objective reality of Ukrainian politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u7	The word comes from "the will of the people." Dear colleagues from the will of the people! Dear colleagues from "The will of the people," which one of you is going to speak? Please, National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u8	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov. Dear colleagues, today we are being watched by the whole country. Dozens of millions of Ukrainians have been glued to TV sets and are watching our Supreme Council. People's deputies, nationals. Who are chosen by the people, for the people and only for Ukraine. I myself am a major in the election two and a half years ago. Raised the whole Luhansk region, people believed that we could punish the system and solve the issue only by working for the people. Today, the majority system is the only system where a national MP can look into people's eyes, hear people, listen to people, feel people's problems! The majorist system today highlights the problems of the population because the oligarchs captured electricity, gas wells, and wanted to steal the land today. Closed lists, no. Vladimir Zelensky spoke only for open lists. There should be open lists. And I'm one of the majors who voted with 226 votes. Maybe there was a decisive voice. So open lists should be, but by a proportional system, as they are. The majority system should not disappear in Ukraine. In the United States, one hundred percent of the majority system; Germany is a proportional system; France is one hundred percent of the majority system. If we're going to Europe, let's go to Europe. People need to see people. There's now practically a bill to call off the national MP, and we'll almost find 300 votes to call off those MPs who didn't work in their districts. There's a town called Severodonetsk. Today, the deputy did not appear in the district for five years. He did not appear in Parliament for five years, and he stole 125 billion dollars. It had to be written to the homeless, and no one had ever seen it before. So to recall the national MP maybe I was the first to do it in the Luhansk region, then went around the country. Members of the local council have been called off today, and we need to call off the deputy majors and listers. Not only can one party head decide, but it is the people who decide. So "The will of the people" today for open lists, proportional system, the law already exists, it can already be voted on. Closed lists, no, just for the people and the people. Thank you. Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u10	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished colleagues, according to the political battalions, all of you have forgotten one important date in the life of Ukraine: this is the anniversary of the burial, the return of the dust of Taras Shevchenk to Ukraine. Our genius wrote, "It's not the same to me as Ukraine's evil people will rise up, the wicked, and in the fire it will be stolen." What is happening today in Ukraine is a demonstration before the whole world and the people that the President, who swore two days ago to be faithful to the Constitution, is pounding his feet. The President’s unconstitutional decisions have led to a constitutional crisis in a warring country that threatens the well - being of every Ukrainian family. President Zelenski acts as if Janukovic, when he won the 2010 election through the sales judges of the Constitutional Court, changed the Constitution. President Zelensky today and his team -- look at the assignment and analyze -- today, using his provisional rating, he's actually trying to capture, usurp power in Ukraine. Article 5 of the Constitution prohibits the usurpation of power. Since the destruction of the Constitution, Zelensky is a usurper. Paralysed by his ratings, the law enforcement authorities are indifferent and completely indifferent. Should the Supreme Council be elected? Of course you should, but holding elections to the Supreme Council under old corrupt law is pure adventure water, which pursues no change in the political class, not the fight against corruption, not the cleansing of power, but the capture of power, because there is nothing more changing than ratings. So, what I'm saying is, President Zelensky acts like Dusty. Dustenko has assigned his surroundings to Gladkovsky, Svinachuków, Kononenkov, Granovsky, and has planted them on streams, on schemes, and on corruption streams. Today, Zelensky has also planted all his surroundings on the streams created by the powder. I'm asking, where's the new life, where's the transparency, where the stated accountability to the citizens? The bill on the change of the electoral system introduced by Zelenski is a more corrupt scheme than the majority, the closed party lists. I'm against Majority because every major knows how much money he has to pay to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u11	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u12	for the purpose of obtaining a mandate as a member of parliament. But I'm against the closed lists Zelensky offered. Since closed lists are party leaders, they will carry five million dollars per seat on the list. Here's what Zelensky is proposing, the same corruption. That's why we're behind open party lists, changing the electoral system and holding parliamentary elections on a new, open, transparent electoral system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u13	Thank you. Ten seconds, ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u14	Green suggests leading, preserving, and managing corruption. We're moving into opposition to usurpater Zelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u15	From the Opposition Block, I invite the head of the Wadim Novinski faction to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! Early elections to the Supreme Council yesterday became a fact: the President's decree was published and the election date was set. It's a political decision, not an impeccable legal one, but it's the President's responsibility. Our task as a deputy corps is to determine the rules behind which these elections will take place. The Opposition Block supports the idea of holding elections to the Supreme Council on a proportional party system with open lists. We believe that this will lead to the formation of a society based on party preferences and will guarantee the responsibility of politicians to the electorate. But we are definitely against the change of laws after the electoral process starts, and this is consistent with the European traditions of the electoral process and the position of the Venice Commission. We promised voters in the 14th year just open lists, not closed lists. We advocate the adoption of the Electoral Code to finally establish stable rules and stop copying electoral legislation before each election. We welcome the path towards peace in Donbas, which we have called on for five years, but we will strongly insist on the implementation of the Minsk Treaties and the adoption of an appropriate package of laws. The Opposition Block has developed 11 bills to integrate people and territories and rebuild Donbas, as well as to maintain a stable and lasting peace. I would like the President's statements on peace and reintegration to take concrete steps. So the first is to put an immediate end to the Donbas economic blockade, which was launched early in the 17th year. Ukrainian businesses have to work under national laws, pay taxes to the state budget, and Ukrainian citizens have to receive salaries in their purses. But at the same time, social guarantees must be restored to citizens in temporarily uncontrollable territories, and economic dialogue will become the basis for political dialogue. We stress the urgent need to exchange prisoners as soon as possible on the principle of "all at all." People want peace and justice from us and finally get out of poverty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u17	Thank you. The misery of the block. From "Fatherland" to the word, the head of the Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u18	Dear friends, debilitated, bloodless, chosen, expelled from Ukraine, Ukrainian society voted in favour of key, profound changes in the presidential election. You and I understand that they voted in favour of change, that no one wants to tolerate such humiliation in the world and in Ukraine. And now you and I are at the threshold of the new parliamentary elections. And the point is, in the old system, there will be choices whether they will be new. We can explain things to people in any strange way, but we all know that the Rules are hardly working in Parliament, and today we have the Festival of Rules! Do we not remember that at night we received a budget that we did not see in our eyes, that we had introduced to the order of the day laws that were not even registered? And today is the festival of the Rules, today it is explained that something is not so registered to change the electoral system in Ukraine. Yes, the elections of this House need to be held in a timely manner, but if the elections are to be held in the old system, I would like to ask all the deputies in this room, do we want to keep those culinary corruption orders that are in this Supreme Council? Well, you all know how the government works with individual deputies, how the clans have done well in Parliament. Dear friends, this is not a matter for the new president, nor for those who are now in favor or against this law. Question is, someone wants the welfare of their country in this room, someone in this room wants to increase the capitalization of their business, someone in this room has to go and look into people's eyes. And if the country doesn't change, and it doesn't change, if the elections are held in the old electoral system, then how will the country live -- that's what to think about. That is why the electoral law needs to be amended immediately, because it is the foundation of the political system in Ukraine. And if it remains corrupt, major, worthless, we will have the same consequences. And it's good that today we've proposed a new electoral system, so let's vote for it and take the first step. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear friends, I don't understand what we're talking about right now. We need a new, responsible electoral system, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u19	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u20	the need for a new electoral system without a majority, and the parliamentary elections need to go solely with the new system, otherwise nothing will change. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u21	Thank you. Colleagues, before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to point out that the rostrum was false. Not once has the Supreme Council of Ukraine brought this call for my headship into order during the day's session of laws that are not registered, and I want to stress that all laws, and I will remind you, and the reform of education and medicine have been carried out in full procedure with every remedy, as well as the last Law on Language. This Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has adopted decommunization, education reform, medical reform, language law, church laws, has an important message from each of us about its positive important activities. Either we don't respect those laws, or we don't respect the decisions we made in this room. Thank you. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, today is the third day after the inauguration of the new president. A new political reality has emerged. Shocking. All power is vested in the President. The unpleasant smell of 2010 when Janukovic unconstitutionally formed a coalition and raped the Constitution. Now for the points. First. The Order of Disengagement of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call has been signed. Parliament has been transformed into a lame duck. The legislative body has been pushed into electoral mode. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers' stable work is under question. Following the request in the inaugural speech for the resignation of the government, the prime minister of Ukraine, Vladimir Groissman, wrote a statement. Thus, the higher legislative and executive authorities of the newly elected President are now in suspension. The destabilization of the work of the highest executive and legislative authorities means that the state of affairs in Ukraine today is the sole official, the President of Ukraine. That's the third point. President Zelenski, after disbanding Parliament and destabilizing the Cabinet of Ministers, took responsibility for all decisions of power. Four. Yesterday, the president made a mistake. So big, it's more than a mistake. The new president violated the Constitution, on which he had already taken an oath here in the rostrum of the Supreme Council. On the first day of Banking Mr. Zelensky signed a decree to dissolve Parliament without constitutional grounds. A more tragic fact is the beginning of Ukraine’s new political history. To begin with a violation of the Constitution is a path that will leave many promising political careers at the bottom of the earthquake. I recall that on May 17, the People's Front faction came out of the coalition, which resulted in 30 days in Parliament's formation of a new majority, according to the Constitution. In particular, I stress, by May 17 or more, after May 17 there was no legal basis for the President to order the dissolution of parliament. The People's Front exit from the coalition was our political proposal to the President to propose a common agenda. The People's Front faction proposed and sounded its plan. At the same time, it was a step that raised as high a legal ban on the dissolution of the Supreme Council as possible. However, the President went through a total confrontation with the Constitution, parliament, and government. It is absolutely inexplicable that the President's logic is that he first signs the anti-constitutional decree on the dissolution of parliament and today he asks Parliament to come and vote. Fifth. The triumphant return to Ukraine of former authorities of Yanukovich is a source of concern and resentment in society. We believe that the President should provide a public explanation, which and with whom deals light the green light on the return of these people. On the basis of national interests, the need to ensure the functioning of the country's vitality requires President Vladimir Zelensky. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u24	We ask President Vladimir Zelenski to immediately submit to Parliament a nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine and proposals for members of the government. Any delay in appointing a government in a country facing global national security challenges is unacceptable. We demand that the nominations be submitted to Parliament for the posts assigned to the President's constitutional powers. We're surprised why this isn't happening right now. In addition, we ask: Where are the prime laws that Mr. Zelensky spoke about? Parliament is ready to accept and consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u25	All right, 30 seconds, finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u26	Where is the Law on the Cancellation of Deputy Inviolability? Where are the promised draft laws on the President's impeachment, on the recall of the National MP? Why don't we consider a package of economic laws on childishness of the economy, freedom of competition, long-term cheap lending, and the formation of a transparent market for land? The answer is obvious: instead of working for the community, Vladimir Zelensky, cynically trampling on the Constitution and laws, began the struggle to monopolize power in the country, for. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Thank you. Colleagues, attention, messages. The President's representative has already made changes and prepared the law for registration, and has taken them to the President's Office. And we're waiting for a minute to register them. But now we're giving, I'm giving 20 minutes for performances by national deputies. I ask everyone who wants to see us finally to the bill, and I ask you to record a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies, 20 minutes. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. Because there are still no drafts, unfortunately, in the Supreme Council. Brigadier Alexander Mikhailovich. Brigitte. Goncharenko. Please, it's from the Chateau de Gonçarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u28	Dear friends! Hotcharyenko, Peter Dustenka's Block, Clothing. You know, it's really interesting what's going on right now. Let's remember with you that there was only a very recent election. candidate Zelensky told us that the first law should be passed, and the first law he would introduce to us is the Law on impeachment to the President. Vladimir Alexanderovich, where is the Law on impeachment to the President? You promised to make it the first law we would consider. Where is the Law on impeachment to the President? There's no talking about it anymore, they've hidden it. The other one. We were told by Vladimir Zelensky, "The election is for open party lists only." Where is the Law on Open Party Lists? Where is he? I understand that we will now be offered closed party lists, where those who become MPs will be identified, not by Ukrainian voters, but by one person — the leader of the party. Well, in the case of Zelensky, two people: he's with Kolomoysky. It's, uh, it's, you know, it's kind of a shoving thing that's happening right in front of our eyes. We need the Law on impeachment for the President, because we're going to need, I can see, to reprivatise our country because today we're just seeing demand for privatization. We'll be told new people, new faces. Who's that? A lawyer from Cologne, a new face? Head of the President's Administration? Where are these new faces? We don't see them. Following yesterday’s human resources decisions, the Bank’s street can be renamed Privatbankov. And that's how I understand it. So, dear friends, what we're now being offered, and what's happening now, it's a raiding sensation by another institution of power. I very much hope that Parliament will be able to respond. We, our BPP faction, and I personally support open party lists for which we voted in the first reading and which can really give a new quality to parliamentarians rather than closed party lists as an opportunity for corruption, to sell places, to stuff our pockets under slogans, that's all for the people and on behalf of the people's servants. We don't need servants like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u29	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Melniczuk. Out of the way, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u31	Please, National Deputy Volodymyr Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on in the session room reminds me of an episode of history. The Winter Palace, the Provisional Government sits down and thinks he's making decisions, and then this palace is being stormed by revolutionary sailors and soldiers. I have a question for the leaders of the MPs and factions. Where were you yesterday? Today, you demonstrate your determination, you act like the heroes of defeat. Why didn't you explain the situation yesterday? Why do you bring all this into conflict today? You understand very well that the decision that has been made, it has, I mean, the decree, it's political, but it's followed by the moods of millions of people. Now, here's the second question: Your Honor. Where is the reason why we are bitterly hated by Ukrainian society? He chooses people and hates them fiercely. Because they proved here, they usurped power, they divided parliament, they divided office, they shared everything that was being shared in the country. Part of the deputies were rejected on the margin, claiming to be criminals, as if people had not voted for them. We're not consolidated, we're not corporate, and we're not alone, and we're treated as we deserve. We give each other up, he's right or he's wrong. Remember Savechenko, remember the other moments. Is that the Supreme Council? I'm not talking about when there are MPs who didn't kill the flowers, didn't make the booths, and they're talking about the bad Supreme Council. So get out of her. Well, in any group, a teacher can't tell another person that someone's wrong. There is no collective. We are not the face of the country. And now we're talking about what to be an electoral system. There is no perfect electoral system. They're all bad. But what you're suggesting, dear colleagues, it reminds me that they signed peace for defeat. Let's say so, and we have political parties, what really political parties? I can say a few, a few. But if we want to have party lists, we need to see how they meet the requirements of the law. And we're going to have a party -- we can count it on one hand, we don't have to get mad. And we don't have a problem, we don't have meters or two meters. So the suggestion is: let's stop the hysteria, let's see what the law is. Perhaps further consultations should be held with the President of Ukraine, as he is being followed. No matter how much you talk about who broke it, remember that you broke it. The Constitution was splintered and trampled, and now you are fighting as if it were an accident.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u33	Please. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u34	Maybe we should think about this electoral system. Don't tell me about the majors. I didn't see it in Winterfell when the storm hit: the roofs of the houses, the people under the rain, to have at least one political party standing there! I didn't see that! Let's find the gold inside. So that those with authority in the district, yes, would earn it by working.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u35	Thank you, thank you. We got it. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Litwin, we understand. We understand that you are now calling for a check, including whether there is a "Serial of the People" party. That's a very good offer. Please make the next statement. This, please, is the Romaniuk People's Deputy. Passes the word to Mrs. Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I want to draw your attention now, to all who are here, to the hall and to those who are looking at us, to our voters, to the citizens of Ukraine, to what we're talking about. In fact, we're talking about a change in the electoral system. And this is a question that is of interest to those who have come to the hall today, to all: both majors and writers. Those who are here today are curious. But for the sake of life, for every Ukrainian citizen we talk to you about changing the system. Because how they are elected to the next Parliament depends on how they conduct themselves in this Parliament depends on what system they create tomorrow, in the next call. We have with you today the President's decree to dissolve the current Supreme Council. And today it is for you and me to decide how the next Parliament will work. Of course, when there is a flood, there are no parties under those buildings that need help. Today, the mayor waits for a man, and he waits for the mayor to help with the state budget. Our task with you is to create the conditions under which the state system will work automatically. And when the governor of the state, when the national head of the regime, when the city council or the village council have the opportunity, the responsibility and responsibility of each individual to do his or her duty. And when it is not necessary for individuals to expect help from individual national deputies. So it is very important that we vote with you today to change the electoral system so that tomorrow Parliament will work for every Ukrainian citizen. That's the first thing I'm talking about. I'm addressing each of you and every voter: vote for a change in the system today, analyze the bill that we're going to see. I would like to discuss today my bill, which I registered last year, with open party lists, the only open party list. But they don't carry it, they don't carry it for the second year. So I'm asking you, let's talk a little bit about the project that we're going to see, which is represented by the President. And the second thing I ask and address is the Head of the Supreme Council. I ask the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council to convey. Today, senior officials were very well controlled in registering deputies, controlling the future of personal voting very well today in the hall. So now I'm asking you to consider this as a parliamentary request: to re-establish the practice of Hitting, and Andrija Volodymyrovich is obliged to put here a system of personal voting, when no MP can vote for anyone else today or tomorrow, ever. In Kiev, this personal voting system has been in operation for four years, and decisions are made. And I very much ask you to consider this question as soon as possible after the conclusion of this extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Please welcome national MP Taras Batenko. I'm keeping an eye on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u38	Taras Batenko, Ukrainian Patriot Union. Dear colleagues of the national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people, you know, when Winston Churchill lost his parliamentary election in 1947, he said his famous phrase that democracy is the worst form of government, not to mention everyone else. So I think that every political party that considers itself state, democratic, patriotic should not be afraid to go to elections, including elections. Therefore, the Ukrainian Union of Patriots supports President Zelensky's initiative in part of the President's decree on parliamentary early elections, the dissolution of parliament. We believe that no one in this room should be afraid of the democratic procedure in this House's re-election, especially since all the grounds for this House's dissolution have been. And we know that very well with you in this room. Colleagues, when I had the opportunity with my party friends to meet with representatives of the Great Seven, with ambassadors from great European countries, we asked them, after the euphoria of voting in the first reading of the Electoral Code, to influence them in some way -- statements, comments, recommendations -- on Parliament, on the President's Administration to speed up and ask questions about open electoral lists faster without delay. I heard from the ambassadors of many European countries one thing: "We are not interfering with this question of yours. This is your internal business." Because there are different electoral systems in all our countries. Someone has a clean majority, someone has a clean proportional system, someone has a mixed system, but in each of our countries there is an open, transparent electoral system. So the Ukrainian Patriot Union will be consistent on this issue. We are in favour of voting on open lists in this room and being honest with the Ukrainian people and with our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u39	Thank you. And please allow me to take the floor with the National Deputy Rizanenko. I know. [[Noise Nodes]] Guys, I'm sorry, we seem to have problems with our "Race" system today. It's okay. I'm going to read a list on the table at the head office: Rizanenko, Babak, Shahov, Sobolev, Petrenko, Savechenko. That's the list. Please see if this coincides with what is on the MPs ’ computers. Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u40	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Paul Rizanenko, national deputy elected in the 97th constituency of Kiev. I want to remind you that in the history of our parliamentary system, we have already tried many different systems. I would like to remind you that the first and second convocations were chosen for a whole majority system, even a two-track system. The third and fourth vocations were chosen by the mixed system. The fifth and sixth vocations are based solely on a proportional system, or as they like to call it, with closed lists. And the seventh and eighth convocation, including the current one, after the mixed system. So when we hear the phrases that let's vote for something new in the form of strictly proportional lists, it's not new, it's been twice. The quality of that new country could be judged. In my opinion, our country's problem is not really in the election system at all. It's fundamentally about who's funding electoral processes and parties. And unfortunately, there's a system in our country where 4-5 of the richest people control media space and large capital, and they can afford to finance election lists, the parties alone. So this system is, let's say, exclusive. What does that mean? Many people here have read and quoted the book The Nations Are Falling. And what is the mark of the success of the nations? This is the construction of decision - making processes that involve interests as much as possible in the wider community. The more interests are involved, the more it is in the interests of the country and the entire nation, not the narrow circle of persons. So, in that system, unfortunately, which happens when voters in general aren't prepared or funded by the parties, the exclusively proportional system means that the exclusive system of society is excluded, the interests of 4-5 very powerful people are taken into account. And in all the flaws of the mixed system, it allows 198 districts, taking into account the occupied territories, to take into account the interests of a larger circle of persons, not four. Yeah, it's not the perfect system, we have to admit. Because the right to be elected is without $100,000 and with $100,000, it's different. But an exclusively proportional system leads to a decision-making process, once again, by four people in this country. You know, I'm afraid that making such a decision about closed lists will actually lead to a five oligarchy regime, and given the electoral moment that is today, it's actually possible to have a one oligarchy in this country. So if we're thinking not about personal interests, but about the country's interests, we need to leave a more inclusive system, at the moment -- mixed. In the future we can try open lists, and I'm in favour, I'm co-author of one of the laws, we understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u41	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u42	We realize that with the electoral process running, it's no longer possible, it can be accepted for the future. But I'll also say my opinion on this point by sharing this idea, which will also not lead to an improvement in quality. But maybe we need to go through that lesson in order to get to the point where we can limit the participation of large capital in electoral processes, for example, to ban television advertising for starters.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to my information, the Parliamentary Secretariat has not yet received relevant bills that have not been registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so I am continuing our discussion for at least 10 minutes. And, please, the People's Deputy Parasuk is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u44	What are you afraid of? You may feel pressured by the frog that you have been doing county benches in the state budget for five years, and now you can’t use that in your so - called career, which is what you’re afraid of. I want to remind you that your direct duty is not to put windows in the districts at the expense of taxpayers, but to create fair and just legislation that society should use. There's got to be a clear party responsibility and a clear political responsibility, because here you're used to: five years of sitting around, playing tricks on the authorities, and then, "No, no, I'm not with them, I don't know, pick me again, I'll make you more roads." That's the reality we have in the country. So by destroying the majority, we are taking a step forward, not England, not Norway, but Ukraine, where political corruption and manipulation prevail. I want to tell you about my experience as a major. I went to the Cabinet of Ministers for four years, and I asked them to give money to build one of the schools in Lviv. Do you know what they told me? You vote for the budget, you'll have money for your school. So, I mean, it's not my school, it's a state school that Ukrainian kids go to. This is to be remembered. And this lie is just, like, overwhelming. Here the national MP tells us that political parties should not come to disaster scenes. And the national MPs are not to come, and executive authorities are to come to help people. And remember once and for all, and throw away the idea that you are indispensable national deputies. Thanks for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u45	Please welcome the people’s representative of Solovai. He is given the word of the national deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u46	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Here, faction leaders have tried to convince us that we need to vote, and here is an urgent new closed electoral system. But it's totally, guys, not a new system. This is the 2006-2010 system where drivers, masseuses, secretaries, brothers, godfathers and switz were sitting here in the Supreme Council. That is what party leaders, respected colleagues, call for. Because when you tell me about parties, and you call me in Parliament a party with a defined ideology, or a right, a right centeristic, liberal party, at least one. I know projects with leaders, I know who's behind these leaders. So let's call it fair with our names that a closed party system is an oligarch rebellion. The oligarch rebellion led by Zelenski, President, in order to bring three or four faces here, and behind their faces, their drivers, their secretaries, to run this Parliament as they please. One more moment. That's what got me! I'll tell you again, one more leader will say that, I'll go out and speak. I'm a major. Are you accusing me of being Greek? So my Greek is my legs, which I went through 350 meetings in my district! My Greek is the farthest garden, my Greek is the school, my Greek is the FAP that I was in. Three hundred and fifty dates. And I have a question: faction leaders, and when you've been to Kosovo for once, if you've ever been to the Film, if you've ever been to the Supreme, please tell me which one of you has been to these remotest.? And the last. Parliament is not only the highest legislative body, Parliament is the highest representative body. And please tell me, if we accept a closed system, who will represent the State of Film, the Highland, the Kosovo Parliament, what will be the name of this person? Will it be 99 percent of the people in Kiev who are now sitting, living, driving on landowners and landowners? That's why I'm supporting the Shahov MP, who says it right. All countries are most developed: The United States of America, Britain, France -- they have a pure party majority system, so we don't have a leader, so we have a person who answers to a particular voter. And we have to come to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a message to make. Just a few minutes ago, a bill signed by the President of Ukraine came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I was assigned to immediately register it, reproduce it, and distribute it to the Ukrainian National Deputies. You remember, even when we took the budget. I beg you all to be quiet! You remember the MPs have to have their hands to see that vote, because I read the bill myself, and I looked twice, and I was surprised and disappointed that President Greensky's first legislative initiative was to introduce closed party lists. A few days ago, from this rostrum to the entire Ukrainian community, there was a promise of opening open lists. But unfortunately, the system that we've been offered is a completely closed party list that is proposed in this bill. But, colleagues, when the apparatus registers now, I'll put to the vote the day-to-day session of both bills submitted by the President of Ukraine. In view of giving time to multiplication, I continue to speak from the deputies for 10 minutes. For another 10 minutes, I'm going to continue speaking to the people's deputies. And now I give my word to Jehor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u48	If you're a voter and you vote for a corrupt party, he'll sell you out. He will sell you many times, and you will become poorer and less secure. If you're a voter and you vote for a district corrupter, it's the same thing. You will not be saved by any electoral system if you vote for a corrupter, for people who cannot explain their possessions, their connections, their decisions. That's what I want to say to all people. The other one. If you want to see another parliament, if you want to see another country, go into politics. Ukraine’s main problem is that so many principled, talented, normal people leave government fraud. And until this problem is resolved, no Ukrainian electoral system will save us. And the third. If you have already decided or are thinking about running a state, not robbing a state, not deceiving people -- the administration of Ukraine, the best way to do that is to have the election system for open party lists, when people will vote for the specific political power they are willing to delegate responsibility to, and for the particular person they want to see as a member of the party. So this is a decision that needs to be maintained today. But the main, honorable, wonderful, incredible Ukrainians, if you don't run your country yourself, and everyone else will do it for you, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National MP Oleg Petrenko is invited to attend. To prepare for Mrs. Savechenko, and then Shufrich, instead of Lithuania, handed over the word. I'm watching, my friends, we've got Rules here, you've heard what the Head said. Please, three minutes, Mr. Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, even in the towers today, journalists are asking: How will the national MP, Oleg Petrenko, vote there? In principle, he stated and replied that I was never determined by how I would vote before I saw the drafts, which I was talking about. So now in my speech, I'm going to tell you what the National Deputy Oleg Petrenko is asking for and what is required under the walls of Parliament right now by the National Corps political party. The National Corps is calling for an end to the majority system. The majority system is, I'm not afraid to say, a minority dictatorship. It's not a tragedy, it's not the fault of the part of people who are willing to localize their demands to a potential suitor, to localize with Greek, children's playgrounds and other things like that. Show me a single mayor of the city, even though there's no such thing as a single mayor who would build a separate district in Switzerland, which is one of those in Ukraine. Only systemic changes in the country, only changes at the national level -- then there will be. The electorate will experience these changes in every district. The National Corps requires a reduction of the passage barrier so that the new political forces can enter parliament. But National Corps requires open party lists. Because yesterday, yesterday’s staff is very alert. You know, we've already seen "love friends," business partners, and what principle some people, like me, plan to form closed lists, judging again by the de facto nature of yesterday's assignment, it might be a disaster. That's why. And continuing with today’s assignments. Therefore, we demand that the bill, which we will see, contain the abolition of the majority office, and three percent of the passage barrier, and the open party lists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now announce the next speaker, and I would like to point out immediately that several statements have been made before the presidency since the MPs and factions, which may also realize the right to speak. And there were a few replicas from the Ukrainian national deputies about the conduct, the procedure. And they'll get their legal moment after all the performances. It's all fixed. Mr. Head said we're going to the Rules today. [[B in m in s a l in]] And there will be an apology. Wait. Mrs. Savchenko is now invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Savechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u52	Today, from this rostrum, people who have lived here for five years, and before that, 27 have told much about the violation of the Rules by the new president, the violation of the law, the Constitution. They do not mention the violations that occurred in the days of Dustenka, who became no worse than Yanukovich, who likewise held the dictatorship over Parliament. Mr. Groissman also held a dictatorship over parliament. They were no worse off than Yanukovich. Green didn't break the Constitution. Green does the people's will. Trust in the remaining parliament is minus 2 percent. And trust in the President of the elect shows the result that it is the President who has the full right to realize the will of the people, not Parliament. You're talking about a major right now. But Parliament is a legislative body. And I think he has to make sure that when the roofs are torn down, they're well-manned, equipped and well-paid firefighters' work, special departments' work, rescue workers' work. It wasn't the MPs running around, climbing the roofs, pretending they could help. To beautify the bench, you did not have to go to the deputy, do selfies, and there were enough community workers with a decent salary. Isn't that what Parliament is doing to ensure the country's work? Your job in the law is honest, not lobbying. The Lobist laws, both under the government and the presidency of Janukovic, were under both the government and the presidency of Prashenko. The people saw no change. That's why Ukrainians now want someone to have the will and the will and the will and the political will to make the changes that the Ukrainian people are asking for. Yes, of course, there are many different schemes, many different projects that are better suited to the electoral system in Ukraine. Each of them has tried in Ukraine, each has brought its own risks. It cannot be without risks when people do not want to change themselves, and they come together all the time. Yes, closed lists are worse than open lists. I believe that Green Vladimir has the full right to dissolve the Council, the full right to launch a new electoral system, despite the fact that this does not fall within the defined framework of legislation for the time being. There's political will, there's a social demand, there's community support for that. I'd like to vote for open lists, without a majorist, with a 3% threshold, so that this Parliament can actually be cleaned up evolutionaryally by new political forces that have no support when a leader is a hauler, and each seat on the transition list costs between 5 million and 2 million, because the leader has a face. Party type.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u53	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u54	I won't go on. I'll tell you one thing: believe me, there's someone to replace you. This parliament will include policies of a new model. Yes, they will enter with bare feet, but they will enter with open hearts and a clean conscience. There's a replacement for you. Home, dear fellows, home! And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u55	Please welcome national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u56	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, well, I can't help but welcome you, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has said, from now on, we are acting under the law and the Constitution. Questions. How did we act for 4.5 years then? I think it's near the Constitution and it's right by the law. To be honest, like all Ukraine, I sat next to a television set yesterday, waiting for what would be the outcome of the meeting of the President of Ukraine and the heads of factions. You know, I have a little bit of experience with analysis, but even I believed that we had reached consensus that we had found compromise, realizing that what everyone wanted, and, above all, majors, the Open List Elections Act, unfortunately, we're not going to be able to accept today. And everyone was crying and saying, "We want to, but we don't have time." And they found the compromise temporary. About what? About the return to the proportional system, I'll be honest with you, with not very closed lists, because every citizen of Ukraine, if he wants, can study the list to the last candidate. And if he finds names there, it's his choice -- love or dislike, vote or not vote. But, I'll tell you, today was pretty cynical to blame someone for what they agreed on yesterday. If we agreed that this is the law we're going to be considering today, then we didn't have to cheat someone and say yesterday, "Mr. President, well, fuck you!".. And that's what it looks like in our Parliamentary way. But people don't know that. But the people believed and came. Dear colleagues, of course, today we have to identify ourselves. We're here, we've got a lot of claims to the President. Everyone is already commenting on the assignment. But we are also politicians. Don't get generalized. If anyone has a pretense, go out and say, like this, like this. And that's normal, that's discussion. But to lie. I'm sorry, throwing is not beautiful. So I hope that the compromise arrangements that took place yesterday will still be implemented. Nor should we be afraid to associate with the Ukrainian people. Even if it's time-consuming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u57	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u58	We all understand a certain issue about the 100% compliance of the Ordinance on the Dismantling of Parliament of the Constitution of Ukraine. But I can give you a bunch of examples when you didn't look at the Constitution, but you made a decision with the law. And please tell me, does it make sense that this Council should be dissolved? Of course there is. And you don't have to be afraid of people, you have to go talk to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u59	Please welcome National Deputy Alexander Czernenko, who is given the word (sorry) by the national deputy Evlakhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u60	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. You know, literally on Monday, a few days ago, when President Zelensky was behind this rostrum, he called on all of us to consider the draft of the Electoral Code as quickly as possible, to consider open lists. And as one of the authors of this project, as the leader of the task force, I wanted to stand and applaud standing. But he did not get up and applaud. You know why? Because I'm used to trusting things, not words. And today we've seen works, today we've seen things. Today. More precisely, we haven't seen it yet, we just heard that no open lists, no election code. Today we're offered a return to what we've been through: closed lists, and, if I'm not mistaken, with an imperative mandate. Friends, this is not a full-fledged electoral reform. What does a change of law require? A change of law is not necessary for some parties to take more deputies, but for others to do less. A change of law is needed in order to obtain another, better quality of the future parliament. Does the system of closed party lists offer us a better quality? No, it's not. There's a lot of people here talking about drivers, massagers, secretaries, the same thing. Whether you buy a major district or buy a place on the list, both are political corruption. And unfortunately, on my knee today, this bill, which we haven't seen before, wants to change one corruption to another. That's not what the president promised us today. I can say that I stand for some narrow political interests. No, it's not. Friends, read today's statements of the "honorable" movement, read the statements made by representatives of the public organizations "OPRORA", the committee of voters of Ukraine who called for the "honorable" movement, not to vote in favour of this law today. Guys, let's not do this. And if there is an imperative mandate in this bill, this is in general contrary to all our commitments to the Council of Europe, it is clearly criticized by the Venice Commission. It's not under any sauce you can't vote on. But I don't just want to criticize, I want to propose. Guys, I've listened to all the speeches: all the open lists. Now, let's not do that electoral reform today, but normally, prepared from the next plenary week, from Tuesday, let's move on to the second reading of the Electoral Code. Yeah, we don't make this election, but we don't have an anti-constitutional appointment. The elections were to take place in October, and they would accept it normally, and they would go to the polls with the codex. Now you want, first of all, anti-constitutionally, we have an election -- and we want to push this electoral system that can make a one-person dictatorial majority in this Parliament. So, my friends, today we don't vote, Tuesday we all vote for the Electoral Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u61	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. And to the word. Dear colleagues, that bill is now being printed, is being reproduced so that all national MPs can finally get acquainted with the first legislative initiative of the newly elected President, presented and registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're going to have a debate for another 10 minutes, and then we're going to move on. Six minutes, please, Mr. Lazko, to whom his colleague Lozov and Kirichenko are addressed. Then there's Mrs. Bilozer and Mrs. Jurynec. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, I have calculated that the first legislative initiative of the President of the newly elected Greens will be to amend the Constitution to eliminate the inviolability of the President, the deputies and the judges. The next legislative initiative that we expected from President Zelenski is the change to the Constitution to reduce the number of MPs to 250. The third legislative initiative we've been expecting from President Zelenski is the Law on the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine and on the recalling of national MPs if they don't perform their duties. What did we get instead? The first bill, passed by Zelenski, demonstrates one thing: his desire to lead corruption. If you can't. The famous expression is in Don Corleone's movie "The Godfather": "You can't beat the Mafia, you have to lead it." Greensky seems to have gone this way. Examples. The draft electoral system passed by Zelensky is the preservation of corruption, it's the sanctification of corruption in Parliament, it's an attempt to usurp parliament. Human decisions. Look at the personnel decisions of President Zelenski. Yesterday’s appointment of the Head of Administration, Bogdan, to be subject to the illustrative law. He's illustrated, he has no right to work as Chief of the President's Administration. He was assigned. Consider today’s assignments. First Deputy Head of the BSB is Bakanov, head of the 95th Quarter! The security and state-of-the-state network is turning into a 95-quarter facility. But the problem is not even that, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, the deputy heads of the BSS are appointed President for the submission of the Head of the BSS. There's no correct submission, according to my information. So all the appointments that President Greensky is currently carrying out, unconstitutional, are contrary to the law. This is the usurpation of power when, using a temporary rating, they take power. President Kuchma, President Poshenko, President Janukovic did everything to bring Parliament under his authority to turn Parliament into the President's Administration. What did Zelensky do? Instead of changing the electoral system to open lists, instead of allowing the new parliament to choose an open electoral system to reduce the level of corruption, he decided to select a parliament for the corruption system and usurp it to get the majority here. He did what Yanukovich did, what Dustenko did, what Kuchma did. But I warn the Ukrainians and every one of you, my dear colleagues, that this is not the most important problem facing Ukraine today. The most important problem facing Ukraine today and before Parliament is the rematch of the pro-Russian forces, the rematch of Moscow, on which we stand. Remember, during the inaugural, rather vivid, original performance of the inaugural Greens, and remember how the regionals crawled. Last time I saw them crawl like that, on January 14th, when they adopted dictatorial laws. For the second time, they began to crawl like monkeys on the ceiling when Zelensky spoke of the restoration of relations with Russia. We don't mind reestablishing relations with Russia, but not by surrendering and losing. Yesterday's Greene referendum initiative, about friendship with Russia, is a betrayal of the millions of Ukrainians who are fighting for Ukraine today. What is the friendship with Russia when the Russian forces on Donbassa? What friendship with Russia when tens of thousands of Ukrainians were killed? Today, for 5 years, under Walnovah, Reuben was killed by 18 military officers in the 51st Brigade. Bezler's warriors did it. And we're told about our friendship with Russia! I asked Zelenski at the consultation yesterday directly, and all the participants would confirm, and I asked him: "Are you going to cancel the Language Act? Are you going to sell the land to foreigners?" Zelensky didn't answer those questions. I warn the Ukrainians: the new parliament, where most regional and green will be, the first thing they'll try to do is cancel the Language Act, adopt a special status for Donbas and sell the land to foreigners. I want to tell the Ukrainians that our team is going to a new parliament, going to elections to protect Ukraine. Me and my team won't let the Language Act go down, we won't let Donbas adopt special status, we won't let the land sell to foreigners, and we won't let the Kremlin rematch in Ukraine. I'm going to protect Ukraine. That's why we're going to the elections so we don't have a regional rematch, Yanukovich and the Kremlin. I want to tell the Ukrainians the phrase that I told Zelenski when he was going after the inauguration, and the whole country, the whole world saw his reaction and his evil look at me. You know why? Because I said to him, "Volodymir, you're getting off to a bad start. That's how it's gonna be. Revanchu Moscow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the National Deputy Barna is invited to attend. Please. He is given the word by the national deputy of Bilozer. For those who have problems with the computer system and with our list of presentations, I inform. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please don't shout, it'll be time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u64	Fellow, pay attention! I'll let you know. First: The bill is already on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But we have to print at least a few copies, 450 pages. Now the whole apparatus is working so that we can print and put it in the hall. We did not make any decisions if we did not distribute to the people’s deputies. So now the camera is going to be in the hall in 15 minutes, colleagues. No, we'll talk about it, we'll wait until they get us into the hall to do what we always do. So the apparatus works with all its power. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u65	Christ is resurrected! Oligarchat decided to usurp full power by putting billions into party projects, and now, by means of manipulation, he wants to deprive the people of their direct right to choose a particular MP, who is to be accountable to a people who should vote on their beliefs for the benefit of the people and the country, not at the direction of a representative of the faction or the owner of the party, where the Supreme Council will choose to vote directly from the people, not the leaders, guards, partners or partners. So the bill that I and the deputies have passed on for a full majority of 450 deputies is the one that needs the people. For first and second callings of our chosen ones were themselves decent and principled. This is confirmed by the experience of the United States of America, England, and France. With their developed party system of responsibility, they did not allow themselves to usurp power but gave themselves the right to choose Parliament for the people. Ask the people they want the election system, and 99 percent ask you: Because each of them doesn't trust any party. So what party election system could it be about? And before we usurp power to the parties that are going to raise drivers, partners and partners, or all the same writers in the 95th quarter. Why don't we go pick out the 95th Lifetime Brigade? Perhaps the boys are not so politically aware, but the question of the principle of protecting the country, protecting the interests of the state, is beyond doubt. And it's only the Marjorie MP who looks directly at his defenses, affects their troubles and solves them, rather than hides behind garbage, or hides behind the "Tamiflu" affair, and the "gas queens" and others, or according to Corban's receipts, that sells the interests of the state. If you don’t have enough money to go to school, borrow from Cologne or Corban of those he stole in Ukraine, and you will have enough. The age of insidious faecal poverty has passed. Instead, there is an age of real threat to national interests, a threat to the state, a threat to our military, a threat to the future of our children. The newly elected President has already violated the Constitution of Ukraine by election, the Book of Illustration Act, the treatment and manipulation of the electoral system, and the fight for cleanliness. Where is the punishment of anti - Midianites, such as Portnoye? Simon Pettlar actually said, "We're not as scary a Moscow lice as Ukrainian lice," especially when these green-tinted lice are political. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the following. During consultations with the newly elected President, Mr. Zelenski, I, as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, raised a number of questions, in particular, and appealed to the newly elected President with the request and request that he and his team avoid sexist claims and jokes regarding the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Ukrainian women. As you know, this is my principle position, which I will defend both within and outside the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in fact, statements by one of the councillors of the newly elected President of Greene about the Supreme Council, like a woman of some age to be raped, have angered millions of Ukrainians and Ukrainians. And I think we have to condemn this together, we won't allow anyone else to humiliate Ukrainian women publicly. And now I'd like to take a word with you and the women of the Ukrainian national deputies who represent the IFF "Equal Opportunities" and the IFF "Women for Peace." Please first, Mrs. Jurinec, the word, and then Mrs. Suslowy, to whom the word Mr. Jurik is addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! Today, I'm a major MP, who in 2014 one of the two major MPs became a deputy, but, I'll be honest with you, there are women standing here who have come to the list. And today, probably women, for example, who have been through a war, deserve to be represented here in Parliament, because they are already ambassadors of peace and they are speaking to NATO, to the UN, and they need to be supported. But it's very important that this election system is clear, and how are they supposed to fix it? There's a registered bill of 1456 that's forced the local elections to take this quota into account, and that's a single-species quota, because who knows what it's going to be like in a few years. And it's very important that we all come to terms with each other today, because I became a major MP after I went to the strike party list in the 10th year before the local council. And my district is my legs to walk through. In a short campaign, it will be very difficult for a woman to come and prove that she can defend her rights in this particular territory. How important it is that these quotas be respected, dear fellow members of the national parliament! When I was asked in the United States how to do this, you know, I was joking, and I said, "Well, it's more likely that strong, powerful men can change sex, but they won't let a woman." So it is very important that we understand today that the quality of Parliament and the new Electoral Code should show the opportunity and opportunity for all and these equal opportunities. And in fact, this opportunity for women to go to Parliament has to be clear and clear. So today in Parliament we have to give open lists where this woman will be seen, because if that is not the case, there is no way in which this bill can be passed in Parliament. Let's think about it, and every time we offer something, we don't ignore certain things. It's not really easy right now. It's really hard. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana! Dear fellows, men of honor! First of all, we'd like to contact you. Today, we are representatives of the interfractional women's union. Peace. Security," representatives of the Interfractional Equal Opportunities Union, we're talking about the beginning of a new political era. And we demand of all of Ukraine's women the right of women to be present here in the Ukrainian Parliament. It has already been proved that the most powerful countries in the world have enshrined the right of women to be in the Ukrainian Parliament at least 30 percent equal to men. They proved that they could develop a humanitarian, economic, security sphere no less effectively than men. And today, when we declare the movement to Europe, let this be a test for you, our distinguished colleagues, our honourable deputies, a test for you, whether you will support us women representing 52 percent of the population of Ukraine. We hope that appropriate changes will be made to the bill that the President is introducing today, which will clearly mark the right of women to be present at least 30 percent of the other sex that is attached to each five. Excuse me, one sex so there won't be any misunderstandings. Maybe the men are here, they're tipping. But I want to point out, friends, colleagues, we already have a draft and a bill, and a comparative table. All we need is your support. We're hoping to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u69	Unfortunately, there is no Parliament in this law, which has been enacted today. And it's very interesting how now we're going to work 400 pages quickly here and we're going to see these things that we're talking about. Let's actually work very effectively today, according to the Rules, and all of these things that are needed when we talk about open lists: about connection to people, about representation of geography here in Parliament, about the representative authority -- we're going to see all that we say every time and we're going to declare. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u70	Thank you. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, in fact, there was this coworker who came to me today, who was first present in Parliament, and she said, "Do you want to leave the cheerleader?".. I said, "No, we want to leave Ukraine." My vote was 226 for canceling the Majority because I always stand up for the principles, but we should never, ever, in this room, go back to the closed lists from which Janukovich's rematch started in this room. Someone remembers the following names: Oliynik, Lozinski? I remember them well, they were the ones who destroyed Ukraine later, and no one knew them. I have the right to speak here today as Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And I'm asking for the fact that I'm being interrupted again and again by the faction itself, to add 30 seconds. Dear colleagues, this Parliament was updated 50 percent five years ago, and new faces came in. But today, Ukrainian voters see this: there are no new and old faces, there are those who defend principles, and there are those who betray principles. Today, activists, those who gave us a mandate during the Maidan and the Dignity Revolution, are urging Parliament not to betray the issue of open lists. And for five years, we listened to them. We will return here today from the Greeks, these party leaders who are planning to make money at the parties during the electoral campaign, and we will bring our services here to make decisions to betray Ukraine! That's not supposed to happen! My friends, and you know, when I met President Zelenski, I was definitely not talking about "xiv" or "re-elections," but about Ukraine's foreign policy, because what I'm most concerned about is that during the inaugural speech, it wasn't "Russian aggression," "NATO," "ES" -- things that are very important to Ukraine today. Do we understand the risks of forming a single-party government by the Ukrainian State, which create 300 votes of one political power or in a column with a 'fifth column' that cancels the vote to the Constitution of Ukraine for the EU and NATO, which will simply allow our partners to betray Ukraine by reloading the EU-US relationship with Ukraine? With Russia at the expense of Ukraine? Everyone today saw the Kremlin's statement about the tripartite negotiations between France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine? Where was Ukraine? I want to remind you that the key position of President Prashenko and his external team was as follows: nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine! Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine! And this is this red dot, this red color that no one can cross! So, honourable colleagues, in fact, I urge today that, if we act under the Rules, first we put to the vote the repeal of the Electoral Code, which Parliament has been working on for two years, and today it is prepared for our first reading. And if we move on to. To the second reading. And if we go to another law today, we have to vote first to call off this Electoral Code. There's a lot of great lawyers sitting here, so why don't you talk about it? The second question that I'm asking is that everyone backs up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u72	Please, one minute, because you're in the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u73	30 seconds. They're just open ballots. I stand up for the same position that a cheerleader is the wrong, open election lists. But when we listen to Duna Miyatovic and all the other eminent representatives of the OSCE, the Venice Commission and other internationalists, we can suggest that the introduction of these lists be for the next election, not for five weeks of campaigning, a year before the next election. But to record this today, by demonstrating our will. And the third is gender quotas. And they don't apply to women, they apply to some men who aren't worthy to be in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, pay attention! Colleagues, we've finished our speeches by the national MPs. Colleagues, in a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are statements. Attention! Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to calm down. After 10 minutes, they promise to bring the first copies into the hall. Once again, the law is already published on the website. Now I want to report that we have two requests from factions for a break. Now I'm going to give the next minute what they were: Eutusek and Dove. One minute at a time. [[Noise Nodes]] So, colleagues, I proposed, I suggested this path. Anyone who agrees will speak for a minute. I said, "Eutushka and Dove." After that, I'll give two MP factions three minutes. By that time, I hope that the first copies will be submitted. And in eight minutes, we'll move on to the decision to put both bills into the agenda of the day session. So, Eutuszek, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u75	I'm calling you now, ma'am. Please pass the word to Andrew Illenko of Freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u76	Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u77	Andrew Illenko, Freedom, the city of Kiev. I'm a major MP, elected twice in Kiev in the same district, and I want to contact my colleagues. That's what you wrote in your Coalition Agreement five years ago because you're going to change the electoral system and cancel the majority office. You said it was the most corrupt system. To remind me? I'm just trying to make it clear. In five years, I've had zero in my district of all of your funds that you've allocated to me. And that's me. I'm not complaining. I'm not complaining. I didn't ask for anything. Now let's remember how this money was distributed. Whoever's voting for the government is giving money to the county. If you vote for the budget without reading it, you give money to the county. Do you want to save this? You want to keep the Greek in the districts? I'm behind open lists. And "Freedom" is for open lists. It's obvious. And that, by the way, was also Zelensky's promise that he would speak for open lists. Now let's do this: in the second reading, let's vote for the Electoral Code. Or at least let's do the least: make it possible for new parties to enter parliament by reducing the barrier to 3 and canceling the majority as the most corrupt component. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u78	30 seconds, please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u79	And finally, in these 30 seconds, I'd like to say. You know, there were some pretty dangerous statements yesterday from representatives of the new government about referendums on relations with Russia, about compromises. You know, I don't understand what the compromises are about, let the representatives of the new government specify. What compromises might be involved when the occupying army is on our lands? What may be the point of compromise when Russia is tasking to destroy us? So please, the Ukrainian society is waiting for a clear explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u80	Thank you. I would like to remind you that, according to the Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at an extraordinary meeting convened by the President of Ukraine, can only consider those bills that have been submitted to it. The law, the code on open lists, we can go to our plenary meeting, which will be scheduled next week if the committee decides. And today we can only consider the laws passed by the President of Ukraine. One minute, the pigeon. Then there's the factions. Then there's the vote. Please, dove, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! Vladislav Doub, Cherkaščina, 197 constituency. First, there's a little point to the president. According to the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the matter relating to the conduct of the procedure is immediately raised at the request of the National MP. So I would like to ask you right away when a national MP is asking for the words to be made out of procedural questions, to give his word. Now, I would like to take advantage of part two of article 100, which regulates the submission of alternative bills, namely: which provides that the Ukrainian National MP may submit an alternative bill. And now there's a registered bill 10319, and I've already looked at there's another alternative bill, 10319-1. I leave the right to introduce another alternative bill within 14 days. That is why we cannot now consider the draft law even in the first reading. Moreover, part three of article 101 of the Ukrainian Rules provides for the possibility of derogation – ad hoc procedure if the bill is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u82	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u83	If the bill is defined as urgent by the President of Ukraine, we can shorten the deadline, but not more than half a term. That's why I'm making an official proposal to cut the deadlines from 14 to 10 days, to put this issue to a vote, and to continue to act under the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u84	Thank you. And I want to emphasize to you and remind you that I'm going to put an offer on the vote just to put it into the agenda of the day session. If it's included in the agenda of the day session, I can also suggest that your proposal shorten the time for consideration. And I will no doubt consider it right, and I will also put it to a vote if it is included in the agenda of the day session. Please, the minute is Dombrovsky, and the factions. First, turn on the Dombrowski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u85	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I have questions about the Rules and the procedure. Why were we gathered in the Ukrainian Parliament today? In terms of sound logic, why couldn't you do it tomorrow? Why couldn't we work on the bill today to see the Chief Executive to prepare a document and not create a circus in the Ukrainian Parliament? I'd like to invite everyone. Friends, let's stop destroying Ukrainian parliamentaryism. I want to remind you, here's a lot of words about the Constitution that we live with you in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, and all that's happening today in the Ukrainian Parliament is the destruction of a key institution. By the way, so is the destruction of the presidential institution because the document is not prepared. So I call, power and state is a balance, it's a dialogue, not a war. Stop destroying Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u86	Thank you. And I'll give you an argument. Yesterday the issue was discussed during consultations. By the way, this is a matter for the President of Ukraine, because under Ukrainian law, I have to call a session immediately if there is an appropriate proposal by the President. Yesterday we asked and he explained that he wanted something faster because he planned in a few hours that would be approved a decree to dissolve parliament, and the head of the CEC explained that not only during the election campaign could we not change legislation, but even a year before the election. And he asked us that he wanted the decree to be in force so that we could change the electoral legislation, because the decree would take effect after the president's press release. This explanation was given. The consultations were open, they were recorded, and so I think I can totally transmit this information, why there was motive, actually, today for 12 hours. As for the level of preparation of drafts, I agree with you completely, but we can't go beyond the existing law. And although someone in this country has to act according to the legislation in force. At least someone has to be the center of stability in this country. And this is the Ukrainian Parliament, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And others, we will expect them to learn to act within the framework of existing legislation. So, colleagues, now I'm announcing that two applications have come in. The first is from the block, the Renaissance, and the Opposition Block. I give the floor to Dudenkov. Next up, from the People's Front and BPP. That's what I'd like to say from the coalition, but not from the coalition anymore, from two factions. It's sad. Please, Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u87	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. There's been a lot of opposition lately, isn't there? Someone said that we would stop destroying Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And as representative of the Opposition Block, I find that it was destroyed in the 14th year when you joined the coalition, we were deprived of control, we were deprived of our posts, said that "you are the Fifth Column of the Kremlin and you have no right to exercise any control." But you forgot: we're representatives of Ukrainian citizens who voted for us, and they were expressing a different point of view. Someone was talking about usurpation. What's been going on for four or five years now? Was that not the usurpation of European Ukraine? What laws have you adopted? Language laws. Religious laws. The Ukrainians were divided into two classes: they have the right to pensions, those who do not have the right to pensions, those who do not have the right to pay, those who have the right to fight, and those who are patriots. You started destroying parliamentaryism in this room when you started confronting us. You didn't even try to find consensus. You talked about our position being right, and we're not patriots of Ukraine. And I'm going to tell you the other day that everyone is sitting here with patriots, representatives of their Ukrainian people, but seeing Ukraine's development is different. Ukraine is now living in another reality. You're saying that you don't have to settle the conflict on Donbassa by victory. And look at how people think about it. People say there is no military solution. If there is no military solution, please do the will of the people, otherwise you will be cast out in parliamentary elections. If anyone does not understand how to negotiate, he will not be in the ninth call. After all, people feel the clear signal that this first - priority task of Parliament’s ninth convocation is to resolve this terrible situation, which has been going on for more than five years, precisely through peaceful negotiations. The Opposition Block states that in the ninth vocation we will repeal the Decommunization Act, we will repeal the language law as unconstitutional. We will make an effort to settle the situation peacefully in Donbas. And whatever you say there, your rating is negative, and you're a temporary phenomenon in this policy. Because in terms of a proportional electoral system, we're going to maintain this proportional system. But I want to say, of course, open lists, a proportional system with open lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u88	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u89	It's the most acceptable. Why? Because neither the majority system nor the proportional system with closed lists are, of course, ideal. But we don't have the right to take people's deputies away from the right districts, and this is an exclusively proportional system with lists open. You declared it yourself, then vote on the corresponding Electoral Codex. Vote these bills, you promised people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u90	Thank you. I want to point out, colleagues, that there was false information from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the 14th year, Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine saved Ukraine when both the President and the government fled Ukraine, and your so-called leaders. Parliament then took a blow when the occupying armies went to Ukraine to protect the lives of our people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine saved them. And I want to tell you one more time: you can't cancel either the Decommunization Act or the Church Law or the Language Act, or the Ukrainian People will never let you. You think it's rematch in the air, smell more detail: it's the smell of burning tires. And remember Majdan! The Ukrainian people will never allow you to destroy fundamental, fundamental values in our Ukraine. I say it with responsibility. And I'm sure the whole room supports me, colleagues. The factions have now been texted to the heads of the factions. A closing statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front," Maxim Burbak. Three minutes from now, I'm going to put a motion for inclusion in the agenda. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. Maxim Burbak, People's Front faction, 204th constituency. Yeah, you didn't make a mistake. I'm a major MP. I am a major MP who voted in favour of the Electoral Code and in the first reading who will support open lists with the regional consolidation of deputies in the second reading. Despite the accusations of other factions who told people that there was another request, I communicate with them directly. I can tell you that I was in the villages of the Zastavnov region, where there was no deputy in 27 years of independence for Ukraine! Now you're telling me that they're sowing Greek and building schools, and they're making windows. Yes, I agree with you, this is not our function. But people want discussions, they want to communicate with their actual legislators so that people can hear and tell them their needs, and we can actually present them here. Yes, people demand open lists and they demand that people see their deputies. It is unfortunate, however, that President Zelensky, who on Monday during the inauguration, said that we should consider the Electoral Code, which provides for open electoral lists, which worked for over a year in working groups where over 4,000 rights have been processed, and we are ready for his consideration in the second reading, today we are given a closed electoral system, political corruption and the slavery of deputies in factions! The People's Front faction will not vote in any way. I would like to remind some of the hotheads in this room who require immediate consideration of a bill that simply determines the future of our Parliament. I recall the events of 2014-2015 when we were still in the coalition discussing the adoption of a bill on local elections. How was it emphasized then: we need to change the system, let's upgrade the system, let's make other lists! Then they looked, held elections, and it was found that a third of the districts had no deputies at all. Now they said, "Oh, we made a mistake, not a system." What would you say if you were wrong today? No one's talking about it. Who will be responsible? And I don't think we should vote today for this bill, which provides for the very closed corruption lists, there's nothing but a name for it from open lists. We can't have the system sealed. And the main thing is, if they can't hear us here, let's hear about civil society. The "honest" movement has just turned to the MPs not to engage in a conspiracy to allow the oligarchic clans to anchor themselves in this session hall. The People's Front will not support the closed lists that have been submitted to secure the corruption system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u92	Thank you. My colleagues, I'd like to confirm that I've been approached by public organizations and I've been asked not to support this corrupt system. But we can go, at last, to the vote, to the colleague. It's given to faction heads, it's on the site, anyone can read. And I ask everyone to take their seats in the hall and prepare for the vote. As my colleagues enter, I would like to announce that May 21 was the birthday of my comrade Mikoli Karpuk, a Ukrainian politician who was illegally sentenced to 22.5 years in prison for premeditated charges. We'll do everything we can to get our citizen out of Russian captivity and bring him home. Welcome to Nicholas Karpuk, age 55. Hey, buddy. Happy birthday. We will deliver all the prisoners captured by the Russian aggressor. Welcome, my friend Mikola! [[Applause]] Thank you. We're moving on to making a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, please make the most of it. In accordance with article 23 of the Rules, I ask to vote in favour of the inclusion of Bills 10319 and 10319-1. This is a bill amending some laws of Ukraine in connection with the change in the electoral system for the election of Ukraine’s national deputies. To be included in the agenda of the day session. Who wants these drafts of law -- 10319 and 10319-1 -- to be included in the agenda of the day session, please vote. Vote. It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. [[14:06:51]] For-92 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 17, People's Front – 2, Opposition Block – 19, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 0, Fatherland – 15, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 0, and non-fractional – 22. Next. I'm proposing to include in the agenda of the day's session a bill amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act on procurement during the electoral process. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[14:07:48]] For-127 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, pay attention! The decision is not made. I'll give it to the factions. I want to report to Nephrodite. He said that all difficulties could be solved without the Law with public procurement, and there was no need. I asked him before the vote, and he confirmed it. The factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 17, People's Front – 7, Opposition Block – 24, Self-help – 20, Radical Party – 16, Father's Party – 16, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 26. Unfortunately, colleagues, we were unable to include any of the laws in the agenda of the day session. And now, colleagues, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. After that, I will be forced to close the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a number of very important announcements have come to the fore of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules of Procedure, I report the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputies Zalitschuk Svetlana Petrovna, Kornac Arkady Alexiyovich, Lechchenka Sergija Anatoliyovich and Najem Mustafa from the MP group of the "Block of Petra Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the next announcement. In accordance with article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the eighth in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Interfractional Union of Business Watch. The heads of this association elected the national deputies of Ukraine, John Miroshnichenko and Labazük Sergiya.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-22-m0.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Thus, colleagues, in turn, declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, May 28, at 10 a.m. I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to continue our work, not as simple as it is necessary for the country. Thank you.
