ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please take up jobs. Everyone's going to take up jobs now, and we're going to run the registration. So the colleagues are ready, right? I'm out. So, colleagues, please register. [[10:06:07]] 334 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Lev Podlisecki. Welcome to your birthday! [[Applause]] And I want to remind you that today we have 30 minutes to speak from the national MPs, not from the factions, but from the national MPs. And now, who intends to participate in the discussion, please record. Please turn on the writing system and log in. I would also like to remind you, colleagues, before we begin, that today, according to the law, we have a projected report from the Accounts Chamber. According to the law, the report of the Court of Auditors follows the following procedure. Report by the Head of the Accounts of Valery Paccan, 20 minutes. Then the answer to the question is 20 minutes. Then there's a speech from a committee representative. Then there's a statement from the MP's factions. And then he spoke to the people's deputies. And then, colleagues, before I start speaking to the national MPs, I want to make a message. Today, the fifth anniversary of the death of the Hero of Ukraine, General Sergey Kulczyck. I had the privilege of knowing him personally. Together with the General in the spring of the 14th year, they created the first volunteer battalion of Maydan's self-defence. He was a real father to our boys, the general knew what a responsibility was, personally responsible for the fighters, for the state. General Kulczytsky would never have offered a referendum on surrender to Russia, not that kind of man. A great Ukrainian and a great warrior, eternal memory and glory to the faithful son of the Ukrainian people, General Kulchitsky! We honor the hero with a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Heroes don't die!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u2	A peaceful one conveys the word for the performance of Skorak. Please, Mr. Skork.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, end this cadence of this parliament. Unfortunately, over the course of 4.5 years, it can be said that no positive work has been done by this Parliament. Unfortunately, it can be noted that even after the presidential elections, where the people of Ukraine have clearly demonstrated their priorities, that the priorities of the people of Ukraine are the end of the war, that Ukrainian citizens can no longer tolerate high tariffs, that Ukrainian citizens demand the restoration of the economy, that Ukrainian citizens demand national MPs to fulfil their pre-election promises, one of which was the establishment of open electoral lists, unfortunately none of these moments the active national MPs are paying attention. We understand that there can no longer be any constructive structure in this Parliament. Today, clearly, this rostrum, this hall, this is preparation for the electoral process. And we need to figure out who's coming into this room after the election. There must be people who will really work for Ukraine. And I am confident that the new Parliament will be able to take steps to establish, restore peace and the territorial integrity of our state. The new Parliament will do its utmost to restore the economy and lower tariffs for our citizens. The new parliament will do its utmost to really motivate law enforcement authorities to investigate the terrible crimes of the last five years, starting with the deaths of people in Middan and the deaths of people in Odessa on May 2, 2014. It is these people who must come to the Ukrainian Parliament. It is these people who must demonstrate to the citizens of Ukraine and to all the Ukrainian society, the world society, which, indeed, in Ukraine prevails over a healthy normal force. Sadly, colleagues, with all due respect for you, four and a half years, almost five, have ended our kennel. Again, I say that no positive action has been made by this Council. We have to go to the elections, we have to demonstrate to the citizens of Ukraine who can run the country. And the country can be ruled by normal and professional decent people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u4	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the people's representative of Vasjunik. Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u5	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency. I also had the privilege of knowing Sergei Kulczytsky, who served under his direction. So honor and praise such people! Honor and praise to all who gave their lives for Ukraine for its sovereignty! It's kind of sad to start today, really, to mention Sergei, to mention all the guys who put their lives into it. It's a tragedy again this morning. As head of the coal industry subcommittee, I would like to express my sympathy to the families of the two miners who, this morning, have also given their lives by extracting coal from this resource that is necessary for the energy independence of our nation. In the morning, two miners were killed on the Lisova mine (this is the Sokal region). I want to look to the government, to the Ministry of Energy, to run the area and the area: to make every effort to make sure that the families are not forgotten, to make every effort to make sure that all the money is paid, to help bury those guys. Because two years ago, unfortunately, the same tragedy was on the Stepova mine, there were eight people dead, and thanks to the quick work of both the area and the government, all of these payments were made. So I also want to make sure that this time it's done quickly. Once again, I want to express my sympathy for the dead and turn to the government to make payments as soon as possible, and so the miners are not forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u6	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Bachevi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, according to article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 62 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the State guarantees citizens the right to higher education. Once again, the MoH’s leadership has violated the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and put the dream of future doctors at risk. On May 21st, the graduates of all medical institutions in Ukraine passed the "Step 2" licence exam, whose legality and validity were questioned. The number of questions he asked increased by 25 percent, the students had only one minute, while in the United States at least 5 minutes for such questions. There were no test authors on the front page of the test, and there is no guarantee that a test is made by Ukrainian teachers, according to the Ukrainian protocols. In the Step test, the American Step is a major violation, the students weren't provided with textbooks to prepare for these tests. Over the course of six years, students have been studying a program for training professionals based on diagnostics and treatment protocols that are adopted in Ukraine, and tests are made in American. First, you have to change the curriculum and then give students similar tests. The MOH is doing experiments on Ukrainian medical students that will result in most of them just losing their diplomas. The MOH’s desire to have fewer doctors and as many patients as possible is unacceptable! Wynnice, Sum, Ternopol, Kiev, Zaporozhye and other Ukrainian cities were already rallying near the MOH building. Today, 50 percent of students study on a contract and pay their tuition fees. There are families who have taken loans, sold apartments so that children can realize the dream of life — becoming a doctor. Many students work hard and hard after school to pay for their studies. It's not possible without emotion to watch the video of the students of medicine on YouTube, where future doctors are asking for help and protection. The Pseudoreforms of the IHO team need to be stopped immediately. They destroyed the medics, and now they're taking the students? The Supreme Council simply has an obligation to protect Ukrainian children from the unprofessionalism and incompetence of the MOH leadership in preventing them from stealing Ukrainian children’s dreams of becoming doctors and working for the benefit of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Health and Peace for All!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u8	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u9	Today, in Lviv, two miners were killed in the Lisova mine. I'm asking you to announce a minute of silence for the dead Ukrainian miners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u11	Thank you very much. I want to say, my dear colleagues, that the death of Ukrainian miners is the result of the activities of the Ministry of Energy and the government. Billions of dollars are spent on importing coal: Russian, American, Yuarian, instead of investing in increasing the production of Ukrainian coal, in investment, in job security, in upgrading basic funds, and in protecting the lives of Ukrainian miners. We demand the resignation of Nasalik's Energy Minister, whose policies have led to the death of Ukrainian miners, to unemployment. For months and years, Ukrainian miners have not been paid in Donetsk, Luhansk, Lviv, Volin. A billion dollars is all it takes to build a mine in Novovolinsk, and many years are promised and no one is doing anything. Instead, we have about 50 percent of the country's energy balance today -- import coal, creating jobs for our foreign competitors, and almost 100 thousand of Ukrainian miners -- they don't have empty refrigerators and no wages and no jobs for months. We demand the new President, the new power of radical economic policy change, particularly in the energy sector: the stake on the national producer, the budget review, the investment in the increase in Ukrainian coal production, the safety of Ukrainian miners, the increase in wages for Ukrainian miners. Enough feeding foreign competitors! The country's real energy security is Ukrainian coal, Ukrainian energy, Ukrainian gas, and Ukrainian oil, not the defolt offered by today's government, which affects every Ukrainian. Because defolts are very good for the troops because they're going to buy all the government property for the coins, and for the Ukrainians, defolt is 100 dollars per dollar for the same pay and pension. For Ukrainians, defult is a reduction in jobs, including in the coal sector, and that means rising tariffs and the country's energy dependence. My team and I are proposing the opposite plan. Instead of defolut, economic development, wage increases, budget reviews, clearing out all the corruption schemes of today's customs, taxes, offshore harbors, when money is spent and taxes are not paid to the Ukrainian budget. And to stop the production of Ukrainian miners and all the workers. These are investments in job security, in the updating of the core funds, in increasing production and the real energy independence of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u12	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Mishchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I have addressed the Prime Minister with four questions. First question: are these legal or illegal payments in payments for Ukrainians for gas? The answer is illegal. And NCRE carried out a check and fined them. The second question is: Can they eliminate subsidies for non-payments? Reva’s reply: They cannot eliminate subsidies. The third question is, could they turn off the gas for not paying these payments illegally? Nasalika’s answer: These payments are illegal, illegal, and gas-disengagement. And that's the fourth question: when do you, as Prime Minister, remove from these payments people are blackmailing, these payments? The answer is silence, no response from Groysman. What does that mean? His ministers say it's all illegal, and it goes on the payroll. And how can we trust the Prime Minister, who says with one hand that it's illegal and with the other hand in this scheme? Because every month when these citizens get paid, they get billions and they divide. That's understandable, and it's not cleaning up, it's dividing. So I have a question: When will he leave this position? I promised last time he'd get a zero in my district with his party. I'm special, I don't have to do agitation, I don't have an election campaign, I've had seven years a day, and I'll pay him special attention if he doesn't get paid. And I want to say separately, and thank Fatherland for giving me her word. Because today, it's helping me fight these payments that only the political power is the Fatherland that helps me, yes. So I am grateful to the leader of Jurya Volodymyr's Timoshenko and all the faction for this help and for the word I have been given.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u14	Please welcome Victor Pinzenik. They'll come out of the place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Grigory the Muggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u17	Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u18	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, for your word. Dear friends, first of all, I would like to thank Aunty Bachetti for bringing this up today, because I was also preparing for this very issue. I want to tell you what's going on at medical universities today, and how this has ruined the health community, and first of all, the students. There is such a deputy minister as Lynchevski. I don't understand at all: either he's a person with such a drowsy incompetence or he's a pest. Because what's going on in the med universities today. There's a commercial structure in America that's created by several men, called IFOM, not iPhone, but IFOM. This structure today requires that Ukraine, which introduced Steps, is incomprehensible, because we have Steps, publicly approved, state-owned, introduced some "Steps" to pay 70-80 million dollars a year from the state budget. In addition, medical facilities, all medical institutions, are meant to be Meduniversities, have to pay another 6 to 7 million each year. I don't understand. Who doesn't get it either. What I'm saying today is that this is what these people are making, and they're giving reasons to rule out students in the 6th grade of medical school, is nonsensence at all! Not one country in Europe, and America itself, the United States does not give up such Steps. We have completely different programs. They have, for example, just to give an example, we have first a study of general education, and then, as they study more medical questions, the clinic is already going there. We have everything today: they demand that Steps be given some kind of misunderstanding, American, when the children are not yet passing this program. It's nonsense, and in general I think it's part of people who have no relation to the medical field and to medical universities, education and science. But there was Sosun, now Linchevsky. We want to raise you all, and first and foremost, the Committee on Education and Science. Alexander Volodymyrovich, please, let's sit on the computer of Linchevsky and Suprun, and see if they can deliver this Step themselves at least on the level of a nurse. So I'm going to the Bureau of Anti-Corruption Investigation, and I'm going to the Attorney General's Office, and I'm going to the Prime Minister today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u20	Consider my statement as a parliamentary request, to find out where we're giving money from the budget at a time when we can't put any money on a sick child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u21	Thank you. And the People's Deputy Barna is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u22	Christ Voscres! General Kulczycki said, "Let's go to Moscow and shoot to the last bullet." And he is an example of national dignity, patriotism. Roman Suhevich said, "Wise is not to poison, honest is not to buy, brave is not to break." That's why I'm obviously addressing the members of the Supreme Council and of the entire Ukrainian people not to manipulate some reformers who want to take over the people's right to directly elect representatives of power by voting for a particular MP in their own capacity, because it's not the ephemeral party lists that can manipulate or co-operate, or move, because it's the people who have to vote for a specific MP, a specific person, not some lists that make up the oligarchy-owners of parties that include drivers, guards, partners, partners or weeds from "95 Quarters." It is the MP who should report to his constituents, the people, not the party's oligarch. It is the MP who must vote, coming out of his beliefs and the opinions of the communities, the interests of the communities, not out of what he is ordered by an oligarch-owner of the party. And it's the electorate who has to film the MP, call him off, not the oligarch that the MP didn't like. Take the example of France, Germany, England, France, and the United States, where the party system and responsibility have been developed, and they have left the right to choose directly for the people. And people just ask, "What party do you trust?".. And 99 percent would say, "None." So what party election system might this be about? Because it is the majority system that belongs to the Ukrainians and to the Zaporozhye Sichi, the Ukrainian People's Republic, and to the given time. And in order not to stay partying, let's think about the economy, the children. And so I want to say, please put in order the daily budgeting bill 6649, which will allow for competitive domestic technical alcohol not to be imported into Ukraine from abroad, and there are alcohol factories. Introduce Bill 4682, which sets out the compulsory feeding of all children in schools, because you have to raise a healthy, intelligent, patriotic and moral nation. Include Bill 8526, where the primary provision for or compensation for cars intended for disabled ATOs who have lost limbs is due to the doctor’s approval. All of us have the right to choose, but we have no right to betray the people and Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u23	Thank you. Please welcome Vladislav Doub. Please. Out of place, out of place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u24	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. As part of the cooperation between Cherkaszczina and the city of Kyiv, and taking into account the relevance of the matter, I would like to refer the word to the deputy from Kiev to Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u25	Please, the word of Borislav Berezi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u26	Thank you. I understand everyone's probably in the polls by now. Even for Wednesday, there are very few people today. But the question that I want to raise is more than important. I want to talk about what's going on in Trinity right now. There has been no subway in the Trinity that has been promised to the Trinity for several decades. There are new places in the Trinity for entertainment as well as what they promise. Even new bridges are promised, but they are not yet built. But the decision of Kyivrada in Troas must open up a new garbage fire plant. What's that going to be? It's going to be 10 acres of garbage that's being sold to the triads as sorter territory. It's going to be a garbage fire plant, and everything that can't be burned in the air is going to be thrown out, and the whole thing that's going to be there. The main question is that soon the air in the Trinity will be like in Kharkivsky, where they already smell that smell. I look at what's going on, and I can't understand why there are no bridges, there are no kindergartens, there are no new schools, and there's no garbage factory, there's no petri dish. Did the trinitarians do anything wrong before the city of Kiev, Kiev, and the deputies? No, it's not. I can't understand why. We're breaking this scheme. We don't let it build. Moreover, we see that this construction will be disruptive. What is more, there are homes where the inhabitants live — the local inhabitants of the Trinity, who are against it! Did anyone ask them about that? No! No! Someone asked them if they wanted a garbage disposal plant near their homes. No, it's not. But it's being built. They're told there's not gonna be a garbage fire, it's gonna be a garbage treatment, then it's gonna be a garbage fire. Can those promises be made? No! No! Would you like to check it out? Ask those who live on the Mikilian Freedom. They were promised before the mayor’s election that there would be no coastal construction. You can go and see -- they're building it right now. And all these promises remained until the election. Now they're going to promise again, "No, there's not going to be any garbage factory." But after the election, if the mayor's forces win, we'll see both the factory and the biggest dump, and from all over Kiev they'll be trucking garbage into the Trinity. They want to make a big dump out of the Trinity. As a member of the Trinity, I promise you this will not happen. It's important that the mayor understands that. Because the locals don't want it, and I don't want it, and it won't be in the Trinity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u27	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u28	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Neither in this room nor outside this room can anyone refute the idea that people are getting worse. Poverty prevails in Ukraine. But in these elections, the people did not delegate to anyone the right to continue armed conflict either in the hot or in the frozen stage. We must admit that today those who have led to this poverty will not be able to overcome extreme poverty, which is a reality. And today they do not want to put an end to the armed conflict of those who earn money in war. We therefore support the initiative to hold early elections that this Parliament has lost its national confidence. Do you want an example? The president was supported by three fourths of Ukraine’s voters. If we are the speakers of the Ukrainian people, this room should be supported by three quarters of the President's initiative. What did we see when it was suggested that we should vote on the amendments to the Electoral Law? What did we see when we proposed to vote in favour of funding the election program? We stopped expressing the interests of the Ukrainian people. We become immoral, and that is why we must leave. I'd like to say that it's just embarrassing to be so attached to this power. We had a chance to save our faces, we had to go on vacation, but we didn't. I'm talking about basics. President Zelensky promised to bring peace and exchange all prisoners for everyone. We insist on the unconditional and immediate implementation of the Minsk Treaties, the adoption of legislation accordingly. The opposition bloc developed a package of bills four years ago that would allow for a stable long-term peace and integrate and rebuild Donbas. We must and must start a discussion so that the next Parliament can proceed with their implementation and implementation. Tomorrow the ministers of foreign affairs of France and Germany are arriving in Ukraine, and they want to hear whether President Greensky is ready to do the Minsk Accords or whether he will do the same as the previous president did. Why would they come through the Minsk Accords? Because the Minsk Accords are approved by the UN Security Council Resolution. You don't want to implement-- let's rescind the Security Resolution. We urge the authorities to give a signal that Ukraine is now being transformed from a destabilizing zone for world society to a zone of comfort and fulfillment of the commitments it has made. We stress the need to recognize this today. On Donetsk, there are people in Lugansk who want to live, they want to have children, they want to work, they want to live, they want to live, they want to have pensions. And if we cannot do so, we must stop our activities immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u29	Thank you. And please make your last speech. The nation’s deputy Musai. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u30	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalščina, Czervonograd, is where today's miner tragedy took place. Of course, it is necessary to pay for the loss of families, families, and families who have died. We should keep that in mind. But above all, for some reason the present government does not draw conclusions from the destruction and tragedy that are taking place in the mines. You know, two years ago there was a similar tragedy on another mine in my district, and the government's promise to secure Mr. Groysman's promise to secure, and Mr. Nasalik's promise to ensure the safety of miners directly in the blasts is zero. And that was the result of today’s tragedy on another mine in my district. Thus, such criminal irresponsibility must be punished. And there must be criminal prosecutions for the inaction and negligence of the higher leadership of the State and the Ministry of Coal Industry. Because if that's not the case, there's going to be another tragedy on our mines. Another similar issue is with the Ukrainian Ministry of Health. Yesterday at our committee meeting, thanks to the high level of professionalism of the Accounting Chamber of Ukraine (I want to thank separately the Head of the Accounting Chamber of our former colleague Paccan and Meisner, who is the deputy head of the head), the highest level of professionalism has resulted in the criminal theft of billions of dollars by a team of the Ministry of Health. Millions of dollars are stolen on "Affordable Drugs" alone. And we're hearing from the government officials that they took responsibility for this. Where are the landings? And that's an address for the new president. You know, you took advantage of the natural phenomenon when you went to the elections. Ukraine will grow green. Yes, Ukraine greened in the spring. Indeed, this has happened. 73 percent supported the greening of Ukraine. But you had a second slogan: "The spring will come, we'll plant." You have three days left in the spring to carry out what is happening to present - day government officials, what is actually happening to the criminal activity of the present government and the present majority. That's why if you want to harvest crops in autumn, you have to keep your second promise: spring will come, they'll sit. If you fail to do so, you will have the same fate as your predecessors. That is why I demand criminal investigations and criminal proceedings against government officials and high-ranking officials as a result of the audit of the Court of Auditors and the tragedy in the mine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, Maria Ionova is invited to attend. A statement came from two factions ready to take a break. As we understand it, the topic concerns the Eastern Partnership and the Association Agreement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u32	Good day to you all! Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to draw your attention to our agenda tomorrow. And to remind you, however, 0227 is a bill called an updated Appendix 27. I will tell you more about him, and why there are such advantages. Because, in fact, the position in the Association Agreement on the Energy Sector, they've actually undergone significant changes over the past five years. Because the negotiations on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU have been concluded, and this has changed our commitments, which come out of the implementation of the Agreement and its membership in the Energy Partnership Treaty itself. And indeed, for more effective implementation of reforms, the mechanism of bilateral monitoring of energy sector reform itself has been changed to ensure that reforms achieved are irreversible and in the long run contribute to the proper functioning of gas and electricity markets on the basis of EU rules. Because why we ask tomorrow to pay special attention and be disciplined, and be in meetings, and vote and approve the updated Appendix 27 because it will, in fact, ensure progress in promoting energy reforms and ensure their irreversibility. It's also what's called a zero-car, an energy-free car. And we can say that these are going to be the same rules for the energy market for both EU member states and Ukraine. And I also want to say that this is one of those tools that is reliable against the North Stream 2 project that will force the Russian Federation to transport gas to the EU on January 1st through Ukraine. And let's say we're already part of EU law and we can defend ourselves, and Russia won't be able to manipulate anymore. And I would also like to point out that the updating of Appendix 27 is a new approach to integration with the EU, and it will be an example for other areas where we want to integrate with the internal market of the European Union. I would also say that, indeed, this updated supplement will allow the necessary internal procedures and allow Ukraine to provide the very legal basis for deepening cooperation aimed at integrating Ukraine's energy market into the EU's energy market. Last but not least, I would like to say that, in the days of President Peter Poshenko, together with the government, our Parliament, we have taken very significant steps towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration, as our Western partners have repeatedly pointed out. Today, though, we still have a large number of tasks ahead of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u33	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u34	I'd like to ask that in July we will celebrate two years of carnage first for our citizens, for our travels, and let's start and also start an energy-free car for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u35	Thank you very much, colleagues. I want to make a message. You remember, on Monday, I gave the committees of legal policy a mandate to consider the issue of the Electoral Code, the Rules Committee to review the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. And I ask you, and I ask the members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice to meet with the Committee at 12 o'clock in the conference room and recommend to Parliament to consider the issue of the statement of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and, in accordance with part three of the 118 Rules of the Supreme Council, to transmit to Parliament, in the second reading, a comparative table prepared by the working group for the Electoral Code. This, colleagues, is our chance, if the committee goes back to 4.5,000, we won't stand a chance. If the committee supports the work of the working group and hands them over to Parliament, it will give us a very good chance. The key point, I'm going to address personally and personally to all the members of the committee: I'm going to publish those who didn't come to the committee meeting. At 12 o'clock in the conference room, I ask everyone to gather and do their work, to make a decision that will allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to proceed to the electoral code. I hope that the committee head and members of the committee will be present. I'll provide the premises and all the technical equipment you need to be able to conduct the committee fully. I wish you success and decision. Thank you. And now we can move on to the key issue of today. Excuse me, Mr. Valérie, another statement is from the faction, three more minutes. There's a statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. They're ready to trade it for a performance. And we're invited to the presentation by the People's Front representative, Andrew Teteruk, three minutes. And then the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Head! Honorable colleagues are national deputies! Dear great Ukrainian people! It has become known that one of Yanukovic's former loyal associates, the national deputy of Prokremlovsky's "Obvok" has appealed to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, and the Ukrainian Security Service, requiring that a criminal case be brought against the former Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as President of Ukraine in 2014. Listen, former Lieutenant Janukovich demands that Alexander Turkinov be brought as one of the leaders of the People's Front to account for the fact that in 2014, during the open aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, he, as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, ordered our soldiers to protect Ukraine, territorial integrity and Ukrainian citizens from the Russian occupation. The name of this former region is Nestor Schufric. The Shufrich is known for his many years as a runner at the best man named Putin – Medvedchuk. This man, who, for the sake of his boss, Medvedchuk and his boss Putin, is willing to carry the dumplings and contempt from the Ukrainians so that only a puppy’s whine can earn the master’s gracious hand for a chorus. The People's Front states that it was through the preparation, courage and state position that Alexander Turkin's enemy got shot down in 2014, otherwise the whole of Ukraine could have fallen. The Kremlin planned to penetrate the land to the occupied Crimea and make it capitalize on our independence. This order was protected by Turkinov by peaceful Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovsk, and the entire Left Bank Ukraine against the occupation and flames of war. These were orders that enabled residents of the area of Donetsk and Luhansk to live in their native Ukraine. His orders gave timely formation of an international antiputinian front. It is by this command that tens of thousands of volunteers stand on the line of defense, protecting our land. The world saw the will of the Ukrainians to freedom, democracy, and movement toward the European family of nations. As a member of the People's Front team, as well as as a soldier and an officer who knows what war is, which he considered to be an honor and his duty to go to the front in the 14th year, I want to address Mr. Shufric and his masters: you have decided today that it is your time for the rematch to take place, some circumstances after the presidential election have given you that hope. However, Ukraine has paid dearly for its freedom, too expensive, and it is a price that will never let us forget who Putin, Medvedchuk, Shufrich, and the entire anti - Ukrainian Chamberlain. The People's Front warns the collaborators: take your dirty paws away from the Ukrainian statesmen, from Ukraine's defenders, yours awaits the same future as the traitor Yanukovic: disgrace and life under arrest. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u37	Heroim Slava! Thus, the distinguished National Deputies, in accordance with article 140 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, article 30 of the Law of Ukraine on the Court of Auditors, prepare and report annually to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on their activities. According to current legislation, the Rahuunkova Chamber submitted an annual report on its activities for 2018 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to articles 34, the 240th Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine propose the next order for consideration of the report. I would like to point out that the order of consideration is prescribed by law, and the order is consistent. The first is a report by the head of the House of Accounts Valery Vasilovich Packan. By the way, I'd like to welcome both Mr. Packan and the members of the House of Auditors. Hello, fellows! [[Applause]] Thank you for participating in our session for coming with such a representation. Next. The law provides an answer to questions from national deputies for up to 20 minutes. Afterwards, a statement by a representative of the Committee on Budget Affairs tasked with preparing the issue. This will be performed by John Krulko, and he will be given an order of up to 10 minutes. Then there are speeches by the MPs and speeches by the national MPs. So this is the general rule and this general plan of our consideration, and then we're actually going to take the account room report. So, colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum, before I address the head of Valery Vasilovich Packan's Chamber of Auditors. Please, Mr. Valérie. It's been a long time since you've been in our rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u38	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to present to you the report of the Court of Auditors for 2018. These are the main results of our updated 2018 Auditorium. Here's a new report for all of you. The flash drive has a full report referring to all of our audits that were conducted in 2018. Here is a brief, meaningful report of this report, which will almost be identical to my report, but more extensive. In the past year, we checked 598 objects. The audience covered almost 305 billion dollars. We prepared and approved 91 reports. Our audiences found violations of 17 billion bracelets. This is a violation of budgetary and other legislation, inefficient management and use of budgetary resources, property, funds from international organizations, planning deficiencies, and the administration of the revenue part of the budget. On the average, each auditor of the Court of Auditors checked 1 billion 73 million dollars last year and found violations and irregularities worth 60 million dollars. Of course, everyone wants to know which ministries and offices are the biggest violators. For the first time in the history of the Court of Auditors, according to 2018 audits, we made a rating of the most inefficient money managers. The first five look like this. The Ministry of Infrastructure – almost 55 percent of the budget costs we have tested have been used ineffectively. The Ministry of Health is 42 percent. Ukraine’s Attorney General’s Office is 37 per cent. State service for war veterans and ATO participants is 16 percent. These offices were the most inefficiently managed, budgeted, but I emphasize that this rating is made up of those objects that were planned in 2018. The plan of action was made up of the previous composition of the Court of Auditors. As far as I know, the budget committee invited officials for today's meeting, but we can see that the seats are empty. I realize that everyone does not want to hear about the mistakes in his job. I am convinced that deputies should make appropriate human resources decisions. I also call on law enforcement officials: NABU, DBD, NAC, BAF, MAF, the Attorney General's Office to pay attention to these ministries and to make the right conclusions and to break criminal cases. Society expects all of us to follow the assignment of each tax payer’s bracelet, and the irresponsibility of the officials to do so must be punished accordingly. By the way, in all European countries (I was present in many European countries), where the report of the Court of Auditors is being considered, government officials who are most inefficient in using budget funds are being released. Tomorrow in the Supreme Council, a report from the government, and Parliament, is an opportunity to raise questions about the relevance of some ministers to positions. Last year we resumed active work with law enforcement, we concluded a Memorandum of Cooperation and Communication with the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. At the beginning of this year, we signed the same agreement with the D.B.I. In all, 21 criminal acts were reported to have been violated by the Court of Auditors in 2018, and 80 criminal acts are now under way. A few more words about inefficient budget management. We've done top-3 audits on each of the types of violations. The largest amounts of budget legislation violations, including the purposeless use of funds and planning irregularities, have been set up in such measures. An audit of the efficiency of the use of state budget funds allocated to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for the treatment of Ukrainians abroad — $1 billion,454 million. This is usually the case with the treatment of oncological Ukrainians. There are almost 1 million cancer patients in Ukraine. Each year, 130,000 new cases of oncology. It is vital that these people receive adequate funding from the State, so that we, Ukrainians, not on television or on websites, can raise funds for the treatment of a child or a person. Next. An audit of the efficiency of the use of state budget funds for research, applied scientific and scientific and technical development in the area of the development of an agro-industrial complex, please excuse me, 588 million. Next. Audit of Ukraine's compliance with commitments in the field of international scientific and technical cooperation and the European Union Framework Programme for Scientific Research and Innovation – Horizon 2020 – 499 million. The largest amounts of inefficient management and use of budgetary resources have been set up in such measures. An audit of the efficiency of the state budget allocated to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health for the treatment of citizens abroad is 746 million dollars. An audit of the use of state budget funds to provide monthly targeted assistance to internally displaced persons to cover the cost of living is 610 million dollars. An audit of the efficiency of the budget allocated to the Ministry of Defence for the construction of Ukraine, the acquisition of housing for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces - 600 million dollars. It's with the people's honourable deputies that now 48,000 of our military personnel are in line for housing. The largest amounts of income-management irregularities, income-generating parts of the government budget, were determined by the results of such measures. An audit of the effectiveness of the authority’s authority to ensure that entities comply with external economic activity with the requirements of monetary legislation is made up of 4.5 billion dollars. An audit of the effectiveness and justification of applying tax benefits to the added cost of providing educational services for higher education is 1.8 billion dollars. An audit of the efficiency of the use and management of ProZorro State Enterprise, which has financial implications for the state budget, is 165 million dollars. Another important moment. More efficient spending and focusing on the most problematic issues will allow the introduction of an electronic budget in Ukraine. I'm a proponent, I'm promoting an electronic budget in Ukraine. This will greatly reduce corruption in the use of budget funds. Only when all Ukrainians see the transparency of the use of funds will we use the word "corruption" as little as possible. According to the results of each audit, the Court of Auditors carefully tracks and analyzes the implementation of the recommendations made. Performance is number one, what we put together with our team for our work. We don't want to write reports for the branch. We want 100 percent of our recommendations to be implemented by ministries and departments. As a result of the 2017-2018 audits, the Auditorium provided over 2,000 recommendations. By the end of 2018, 62 percent of our recommendations had been taken into account. But we expect from you, from Parliament, legislative changes in the resolution of this issue, about the responsibility of some ministries and departments that do not implement our recommendations. The updated Court of Auditors website will highlight all the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. And every citizen of Ukraine, every national MP can examine for himself how the recommendations of the Court of Auditors are being implemented. We also point to the reasons for the inefficient use of public budget funds and practical ways of saving them. I am pleased that the Supreme Council was our year of work. Nine bills have been passed according to our audit. 9 laws, 3 bills by the President of Ukraine are reflected in two decrees, the Cabinet of Ministers in 17 decrees and 13 orders. We are an active participant in the budgetary process. From year to year, we analyze the State Budget, make our recommendations so that it responds better to the priorities, the possibilities of the State and the needs of citizens. We make sure that the state’s budget is filled and used, first of all, to take into account the interests of citizens of both present and future generations. So we insist on the following aspects. For the minimum of living to be calculated by taking into account the real changes and needs of the economy, the now-calculated Minospolytics as real is much lower than real. This results in an artificial reduction in all the social and pension benefits that are made on the basis of a subsistence minimum and then a deterioration in social protection and standard of living. 2016-2017 is a real subsistence minimum of 1.8 times its legislative size. We find it unacceptable to ignore the possibility of receiving financial resources from foreign states, banks, international financial institutions for investment projects. At the same time, we warn the government against increasing government debt and its service costs beyond the statutory scope. We draw the government's attention to the additional possibilities of filling the budget by reducing the shadow economy. We demand to reduce the dependence on local budgets on receiving transfers from the state budget. What is happening today? Part of the larger, left, almost half of the subsidies that receive local budgets come from the state budget. So the local communities are again dependent on the government budget. We've been implementing decentralization to avoid such an incident. We demand increased control over the use of funds allocated to enterprises from the state budget reserve fund on terms of return. Last year we analyzed three budgets: the budget of the previous year - 2017, 2018 - this is the current budget implementation and 2019 - the budget project. I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, respected society, honourable Ukrainians, that during the review of the State Budget for 2019 we made our bids, and found 17.6 billion dollars converted into the State budget, including 13.2 billion dollars in the income tax on enterprises and 4.4 billion dollars in the excise duty on imported goods. The chamber of accounts must be where society demands, where every bracelet must save lives. In 2018 we conducted audits, exclusively including social resonance and topical relevance. The work plan for 2019 was similarly designed according to the principles of the given aspects: social resonance, topical topics, and the enterprises and departments that should be checked by the Court of Auditors. On slides you can see all the spheres that were covered by the audit of the Auditorium. I would like to point out that many of our audits have caused resonance in society. For example, as a result of the audit of the efficiency of the management of revenues from fuel implementation by the auditors of the Court of Auditors, it was found that in two years the amount of shadow market gas and diesel could be 4.6 million tons and the state budget was under 25 billion dollars. And that's almost half the money that he planned this year to repair the roads. We have made specific recommendations to the State Fiscal Service. Result: The Tax Code has already been amended to take effect since July 1, 2019, and since October 1, this year, the responsibility for violating the fuel excise system will be increased. As Head of the Court of Auditors, I was present at all meetings of the Conciliation Council, meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers. Members of the Accounting Salaries were present at all, almost all committee meetings, where our questions were considered. We took part in 96 committee meetings, where 35 questions were considered on the results of the Court of Auditors. We also actively cooperated with 52 working groups and three parliamentary hearings. We actively cooperate with the Committees of the Supreme Council. During 2018, 12 committees discussed the activities of the Court of Auditors. We cooperate with the Committee on Budgets and, in particular, with the Subcommittee on State Financial Control and Accounting. In 2018, 64 requests from national deputies and committees of the Supreme Council were considered at 34 meetings of the Court of Auditors. Forty national deputies took part in the meetings of the Court of Auditors. And if you count the joint meetings of the Court of Auditors and the Committee of Budgets, it's about 240 people's deputies. What was done in 2018 in part of international cooperation? Dear colleagues, I'm going to stop at the fact that the last report of the Court of Auditors was here in the year 98. In 22 years, no audit of the Court of Auditors was conducted. We conducted an audit of the National Audit Office of Great Britain with experts from Poland and Germany. We've conducted a process audit. The recommendations are posted on our website. This was made possible by our cooperation with the German government, the European Union in Ukraine, and the German Giz society. Based on the results of this evaluation, we will now work out a strategy for the House of Auditors for the next five years. We signed agreements on international cooperation with Albania, Georgia, Poland, Estonia. We are actively involved at all levels with the representation of the European Union in Ukraine. He was an important partner to us, and the World Bank remains. Just last week, I met with a representative, with the World Bank director in Ukraine, Belarus, and Moldova, Sat Kakhkonen, and we discussed further cooperation. I want to inform you that the Court of Auditors conducted 37 audits of World Bank projects. Integration into the world system of international parallel audits has become a priority for us this year. At this time, we have three of these things planned. Please pay attention to all of them. We have arranged with our colleagues Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic to conduct an audit on the employment and social protection of our Ukrainians. We want Ukrainians who live temporarily, stress, work abroad, get legal wages and just social security. We're going to work out the methodology of these audits with our partners and we're going to conduct these audits. We're doing an audit of the warning and elimination of floods. We're doing an audit on waste management. Ukrainians expect all of us, without exception, to make effective use of the budget. The Court of Auditors cannot stand apart from the processes that have taken over our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u39	Please add five minutes. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u40	Thank you. We want to contribute to an honest and effective calculation of the damage caused by the military conflicts in the East and the annexation of Crimea. We have taken the initiative within the international organization of higher audit bodies of INTOSAI to create a special group to review the assessment of losses and losses and to use the funds to deal with the consequences of military conflicts. INTOSAI is an organization that brings together 204 bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, in different countries. By comparison, the UN brings together 196 countries, members of INTOSAI, where there are no parliaments without armed forces, but they have organs of the same character as the Court of Auditors. I have already presented this initiative to the ambassadors of foreign states accredited to us in Ukraine. I talked to many of my colleagues who are leading the higher audit bodies in various countries. Dear colleagues, I very much hope that the material of this report will be useful for further work. I very much hope that the Council will be able to make the right decisions. These materials can serve as the basis for the work of this Council, the next Council, the President of Ukraine, and all the authorities of the State. People's deputies would like to take note of the report of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u41	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Valérie is ready for questions. I remind you that according to the law there are 20 minutes of questions from national deputies. And I'm asking all the national MPs who are going to ask questions to sign up for the speech, please. The first question is Krulko Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u42	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Your Honor, I would like you to answer the following question. In our country, there is one of the most closed state enterprises, 100 percent of which are owned by the state, is Naftogaz. It is an organ that actually operates on public finances, sells gas to Ukraine’s population eight times more expensive than it is produced, and it is a cost. It's an organ that sets itself free wages, and the manager gets a salary of 2 million dollars a month and where corruption thrives. I know that the House of Auditors was planning to conduct an external control of Naftogazu's financial activities. At the same time, a representative of the House of Auditors who came to Naftogaz to carry out such a control measure was not allowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u43	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u44	was not allowed to carry out the relevant control action. Please comment on this situation. On the Committee on Budget Affairs, we discussed this issue with a special session. And I'd like you to give me information that's been done after that, and whether Naftogaz has actually given the House of Auditors the opportunity to perform its functions and to take steps to control the corruption that is taking place in Naftogaz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u45	Dear John Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Yes, at the request of two people's deputies, we started a follow-up on Naftogazu. Yes, we were formed and sent by a group to conduct such a monitoring exercise. The West was involved in the inspection of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade and Naftogazu. We were allowed. materials processed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. But the control group couldn't make it to Naftogaz. We've considered the appropriate supervisory action, informed the Attorney General's Office, and I'm awaiting appropriate decisions from the Attorney General's Office. As for my view of Naftogazu: the company must be returned to state property. If we're talking about energy security, this company has to work for the needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u47	The company should work for the needs of Ukrainian citizens. No one can establish a million prizes, including when there is a war in Ukraine, and when Ukrainians live for a minimum of living, when a grandmother in the village cannot buy medicine and food, there must be justice and equality in Ukraine. Yes, I am for managers to receive bonuses, but not in terms of war and not in terms of the poverty of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u48	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u49	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Valeria, Your Honor! First of all, what I'm trying to say is that it's updated, I'm stressing, the updated Court of Auditors, well, from my point of view, today is an example of how to work, frankly, the entire system of law enforcement in the state. And you know, given that, Mr. Valeria, I have a question for you. A few years ago, at one of the state-owned enterprises called the Scrooge, there were, well, let's face it, several hundred million dollars of government money was stolen, because of certain bank equipment that was then bankrupted. There were appeals from the national deputies, including me, to the law enforcement agencies, they did nothing. As far as I know, I am very grateful for the fact that in a very short period of time, the Accounting Chamber found everything, how it was done, when and how. But the question is different. Mr. Valeria, or after the NAB had found nothing, and the other law enforcement authorities, and you found out, they were asking you for information, at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I think it will be fair not to ask questions so that more people can ask. answer. Ten seconds, please, and to invest in time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u51	Are they asking you for information that you found without agents, headphones, special departments, and so on, and have criminal cases been violated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u52	I'll start with criminal cases. We were informed by the Ukrainian Security Service about the facts of the violations found. We sent the materials to the Security Service. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau is currently conducting a judicial investigation into criminal offences, part two of article 367 of the Criminal Code, in the actions of officials of "The Ukraine". What was going on at the Scrooge? I'll stop at the numbers a little bit. We've established the facts of the inefficient, inefficient spending of nearly 280 million dollars. First. The non-productive spending is 4.6 million dollars, the unreasonable use of funds is 43.2 million dollars, with the non-compliance of the legislative requirements of 69.3 million dollars, 4.1 million dollars was put out of business by the Bank's Platoon, which was then eliminated. I mean, knowingly that the bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u53	Ten seconds. But I very much ask you to invest in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u54	I thought the bank wasn't going to work anymore, and somehow the money was out. We're waiting for an appropriate response, and we're going to inform you, national deputies, about the activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u55	Ten more seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u56	Law enforcement agencies. I personally take control of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u57	Thank you. I will no longer extend my time to those who ask questions or a report. [[B in m in s a l in]] See? I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Buglak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u59	People's MP Melniczuk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u60	Good afternoon, Valery Vasilovich! Good afternoon, members of the House of Accounts! I've been to your meeting recently, the accounting room. I'll tell you, colleagues who have been surprised, from the heart, by the professionalism and competence with which the issues are addressed. Respect for you and "awesome"! And the question is. Valeriy Vasilovich, you have recently conducted an audit of the efficiency of the use and management of the property of the ProZorro State Enterprise. Please tell me if any violations have been detected. What, and does this have financial implications for our nation? Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u61	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich, for asking. And thank you for your participation in the meeting of the Court of Auditors. First. I was just stopping about. in examples showed the inefficient use of ProZorro funds and the lack of State budget funding from ProZorro. What's going on in ProZorro? Our main task is for ProZorro to be given special protection for Ukrainian remedies, so we want them to be licensed and to work in accordance with Ukrainian norms and laws. The issue of public procurement has been raised. We're saying that ProZorro's full-fledged owner may not be anyone but the state of Ukraine, and we're going to demand that ProZorro be returned to the state of Ukraine and work for the state budget so that the funds don't stay anywhere but come into the state budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u62	Welcome to the speech of the National MP, Savka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u63	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, the esteemed head of the Court of Auditors, I want to thank you for this work, for your attitude toward your service duties that you have now done. Thank you so much! This is another example for all of us, how we should respond to our responsibilities. I have a question for you. You made a statement in your report about 600 million dollars for construction for military personnel in order to get housing, to use it rationally. In addition, the second question is about the rational use of land under the Ministry of Defence: how are they being used at this time? Are there any violations? Thank you for asking. For answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. This report was, indeed, resonant, which gained a lot of different information, discussions in society. Yes, building housing for military personnel, renting housing should be number one for our nation. We have Russian aggression in the east, war is coming. We have to encourage our military personnel in part of their social security, but we do the opposite. We found violations of 600 million dollars. As for the land, I'll stop separately. A land survey is now being completed. I understand that the Ministry of Defence has problems because many city councils want to own the land of the Ministry of Defence. There's an ennamal number of land plots that didn't get land cadastres, numbers. We recommended that the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Agricultural Policy, should be able to develop in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u66	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u67	To return the land of the Ministry of Defense and use it exclusively for the Ministry of Defense, our military personnel. Trust me, we'll run this check and we'll keep you posted. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u68	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u69	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Valeriy Vasilovich, well, you talked about in your speech that a lot of people have visited countries where the experience of the work of such bodies as the House of Accounts of Ukraine has been gained. But I know for certain that in no country in the world will you find a controlling authority appointed by us in Ukraine, unfortunately. But at the same time, with your arrival, with the renewal of the accounting room, we do see some positive changes. So I'd like you to clarify how many criminal conducts you've been given, the Court of Auditors, openly. And the second question. What are the criteria for assessing the inefficient use of budget resources you see? What sanctions can we, besides sorry, this blah blah blah blah right here in Parliament when we talk to the government, and there are no consequences, except that we can only ask questions and everything, the answers in practice and we don't get? Sanctions, a specific, practical sanction to a minister who is the money manager or to a governor who ineffectively uses, for example, the DFRD. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u70	Two minutes please, the question is vast. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u71	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u72	So let me start with what we have, we now have a post-Radians financial control system. What's going on? The external audit is conducted by the Court of Auditors, we still have a former KRU, now called the Auditor's Chamber, then we have an internal control system in every department and department. Why do we have a pad? I'm against such institutions. We're proposing a new law on Ukraine's financial control system to separate functions. If internal control is on. Directly in every department and department, there should be no double function that would close the activity or report to a branch of a ministry or department. As for the second question: the efficiency of the use of funds and criminal matters. By the end of 2018, 21 criminal cases had been broken. For now, on this day, there are 80 criminal leads. Did I answer all the questions or not? Mechanisms. Dear colleagues, you need to strengthen responsibility, give Parliament the opportunity, you have the opportunity to call off a minister. I propose to amend the legislation on criminal liability for non-submission of documents, as was the case with Naftogaz, the Court of Auditors, regarding the non-admission of the Court of Auditors, the members of the Court of Auditors to the activities of any ministry, so that each minister knows his responsibility for failing to provide information or improperly. opposes the activities of the Court of Auditors. Poland’s example. When you listen to the report of the Polish Court of Auditors, which is the highest control room, as a minimum of 1 or 2 ministries, ministers write resignation applications. An example of many other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u73	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u74	The accountancy report is a black day for a government in any country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u75	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Bakumenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u76	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Dove Vladislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u77	Please, the Dove People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u78	Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Valery Vasilovich, well, first of all, I'd like to thank you for your report. Indeed, a quality and European report. And I really support my colleague's opinion that the use of public finances, improperly, is a black day for any employer. As you know, you've been a colleague of ours until recently, the government is pursuing a policy of decentralization, and in places people become local princes. In particular, I would like to give an example: The city of Złotonosza Cerkaske District, where the city authorities, using public funds, are making long-lived buildings, particularly under the DFRR fund for the construction of a swimming pool, for the reconstruction of the solid waste site. I have a question: Are there any control measures planned for such individuals? And if you're not planning, consider it my parliamentary appeal to you to carry out such control measures, particularly in the city of Złotonosz of Cherkas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. We got your request. And I think the next time, if we have some kind of control action on the part of the Socecona or the DFRU, we're going to add the city of Goldilocks to our control measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u80	Thank you. Next question, please, National Deputy Victor Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Ishtajkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u82	Dear Valeriy Vasilovich, the best confirmation that the Rakhuunkova has been working, is to increase confidence not only in the international institutions of the Court of Auditors but also among the people of Ukraine, which has been a huge gain in recent years. And I'm happy to have touched that body. But at the same time, all the people in the districts are interested in the Ukrainian health system, more faithfully, in the absence of a system of things. I'm asking you, according to your report, to clarify exactly what and how the ILO has responded to your review of the Human Health Improvement Program with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Loan Fund Project. If I'm not mistaken, this cost is over 190 million. Of these 190.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u83	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u84	Thank you. Of those 190 million 4 years, more than 72 percent of the funds were not properly used.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. Yes, indeed, we have considered a follow-up action to improve public health, supported by the funds of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'll stop for the numbers. To make it clear, in all our resonant audits, I prepared help for myself. 2015-2017 and 9 months 2018: total US$48.9 million was used to implement the project, or 22.8 percent, of the total US$ 214 million loan. What does that mean? That the money managers could not use the funds that international partners had given us. Tell me, please, if we don't use them, we're going to have to close the programs. And now I've been talking to the World Bank, saying use what we're giving. Because then, if we don't use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u86	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u87	The programs are closing. We're going to put it under control, we're going to take this control measure into account, and we're going to inform you how we're going to continue to implement our recommendations to the MoH.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u88	National MP Amelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u89	Dear Madam Chairman, Your Honor Valery Vasilovich! Honorable Members of the Court of Auditors! Considering that from the experience of other countries, as you said, the report of the head of the accounting office is a "black" day, and looking at the government's bed, it took place in Ukraine -- everyone resigned. You see, there is no government representative today in the report of the Court of Auditors. I personally addressed the Head of the Supreme Council at the Conciliation Council when the Head of the Court of Auditors is to report on the use of public finances, the costs of taxpayers - our citizens - to be representatives of both the government and the President. That place, you see, next to your colleagues is free. But they ignored it. I don't understand why, Valeriy Vasilovich. And you don't have to tell us about the authority of the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, Parliament has done nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u90	Dear Vassil Vasilovich, we are doing our duties honestly. Yesterday we reported to our budget committee. I asked that the government be present on our report. I've always explained to the Prime Minister and government officials that you're not looking for an enemy, you're looking for a partner with us, we're going to show you how to use money effectively, we're going to teach you if you don't know how to use money effectively. If everyone says that they are honest, transparent, that they work properly, then let them use our recommendations, and then they will have no problems. If the government doesn't want to hear it, then the question is to the government. If there is no representative of the President, then the question is to the representative of the President. I think that now the President's Representative could be here, because right now it is imperative for the President to know how the budget of Ukraine will be formed, in order to then have the opportunity to balance the budget properly. That's my answer. And I'm here to step up the responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u91	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u92	those officials who do not implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u93	Thank you. Because we've been extending the answers, I'm going to go on for three minutes for questions. Please, National Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u94	Mr. Valeria, thank you very much for your work, but I have a more practical question. You mentioned in the report that you discovered 17 billion violations last year, there, of a variety of character. As for the sanctions that have been applied, these are administrative protocols totaling 40,000 dollars. I heard about 21 criminal conduct that was registered, and I just have a question. An unpunished evil will continue to return. I mean, can you give Parliament an extended report on the reactions of those objects that you've tested and the law enforcement authorities on every fact of your inspection? And the second question. As a representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, the sums of the shouting you call, but there has never been a representative of the Court of Auditors on our committee. I've got a request for that coming out of it. Please introduce the practice that the responsible representative of the Court of Auditors should immediately go to the committee and report on each report in order to ensure that Parliament responds at the right time and does not allow them in the future, to root out this practice so that it does not even exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u95	I don't want to discuss it with Mr. Shepherd, because in the past he's my friend. But I want to assure you that our representative is always at committee meetings. That's the first one. It's different. The report on the flash drive has a full report of all the auditors referring to all the audits. We're running a new post-control format on our site. So those recommendations that we've given to a ministry or department will be reflected as implemented. And those who are not executed will be reflected in the same way. We're investigating a criminal offence. And now from this rostrum, I'm addressing all law enforcement. Those cases, which are broken according to the material of the Court of Auditors, lead them to a final conclusion. Those who stole should sit down. Those who inefficiently used the funds should leave their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u96	Thank you. And the final question is Tetjan Ostrikov's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u97	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head. I analyzed the implementation of the plan in four months 2019, and I see that the plan was 102 billion, and the fact is 90. I see 88 percent of the plan properly implemented. That's what I see in May. Again, surprises, especially on customs payments. I'm reading your report on the implementation of the 2018 budget. And you're also saying here that they're not executed in the amount that was planned. I remember how the government, sitting there, promised us from the rostrum that from antismuggling measures and customs schemes, we would receive at least 100 billion dollars by the end of 2018. So that's the question. Did the funds come in? If they come, how big is it? And have you analyzed the reasons why there is no revenue coming into the budget, and in particular on customs payments both in 2018 and in 2019? And what you see is the shadow economy reserves that today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u98	I'll start with the budget. If you say it in one word, it's sad. We've got real budget executions. Those planned retention rates are not carried out in the same way. There are procedures, we've turned. I just called in my report about 25 billion from the shadow circulation of gasoline and diesel. I very much hope that our proposed changes that will enter the Tax Code from July 1st will bring out much, much of those customs revenues into the state budget. I very much hope that the new State Tax Service and the State Customs Service will systemize and electrolyte revenue to the state budget in part of customs payments. I very much hope that the transparency of these two new structures that have been created will impress you as national MPs, and it will reduce our workload. But we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u99	Please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u100	the real part of the numbers that are from customs payments. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u101	Thank you. Finish up, please. One minute to complete the performance. And please prepare the National Deputy Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for the limit of trust you gave us in 2018. A year ago, on March 15, a new composition of the Court of Auditors was chosen. I thank you for the limit of confidence and, I think, we will justify your limit of confidence. I thank my colleagues in the Court of Auditors for their effective work and updated mechanisms and updated reports. I'm ready to discuss any issues, I'm ready to show society, the Supreme Council to this, the Supreme Council to the next, the President, as in which part the state budget is being used and applied. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u103	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Krulk, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs. It's gonna be up to 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u104	Ivan Krulko. On behalf of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues, I would like to provide our analysis. First, the statement and report of the Head of the Court of Auditors, which we have just heard from this rostrum, and the discussion that followed up this report, shows that there is a practical need not only for the Committee of the High Council on Budget Issues but also for regular reports from those or other matters of the Court of Auditors, and national deputies to be able to discuss the most resonant cases when we see a disruption or ineffective use of budget funds. At the same time, if each year, at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, the Court of Auditors reports on its activities, the last such report was in 1998. How long has it been? There were no more than 20 years of accounts. So I hope that this practice that we're starting today will be continued, and every year we'll hear a report from the Accounts Chamber. On May 28, at the Budget Committee of the Head of the Court of Auditors, Valerius Vasilovich Packaan presented a report that we considered, and this report was submitted to the Supreme Council, which was distributed to each national deputy. A short version of the report is also a complete version of the report with all external financial control measures. First of all, I would like to remind you that in the summer of 2015 the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a new, progressive law on the House of Accounts. And it was according to this law, which, by the way, was recognized as one of the best reform laws that was adopted by this House, that a contest was held to elect the members of the Court of Auditors. We had to run this competition twice, and only from our second attempt in 2018, last year, did we create a new composition of the Accounting Chamber. In fact, 2018 became the year of renewal and the beginning of the reform of the Court of Auditors. Compared to previous years, we can celebrate, and this committee noted in its conclusion a significant improvement in the activities of the Court of Auditors. In particular, since last year, the Court of Auditors has begun to regularly send decisions and reports on the results of audits and other controls. The quality of such reports has improved, and they have become more informative and structural and accessible to the public. According to the report of the Court of Auditors in the media during 2018, 7000 740 materials related to or related to the activity of the Court of Auditors were published, which is 2.8 times higher than in 2017 or 2016. There are 1 000 786 official messages, decisions, reports, and other materials on the website of the Court of Auditors, including international information, which was 41 percent higher than in 2017. This takes into account the recommendation made by the Committee on the results of the 2017 report of the Court of Auditors on the need to place on the official website reports on the results of the State external financial control (audit) and the results of their deliberations on the decisions of the Court of Auditors, in addition to information with limited access, of course. This indicates a significant improvement in the openness of the Court of Auditors, the availability of information on its activities to the public and the media. In order to further improve awareness of the public and the National Deputies about the activities of the Court of Auditors, the recommendation of the Committee on the establishment of permanent briefings by the Supreme Council of the Court of Auditors on the resonative results of its audits and other control measures remains relevant. I would like to make it very clear that it is the public activity of the Court of Auditors that is the main weapon of accounting pay, and it is this kind of publicity that will greatly increase the response of the law enforcement agencies: the Attorney General's Office, the NABU, the SAPU -- to the control measures that have been taken, and to the decisions that have been taken by the Court of Auditors. In an example of the activities of the Committee of Budgets of the Supreme Council, it is worth noting that the head and other members of the Court of Auditors are taking part in committee meetings, subcommittees, working groups in which an expert evaluation is made on these issues that the Committee is considering. The Court of Auditors has become more open, and we can really point out these examples that have already been mentioned in this rostrum: the establishment of a close relationship between the Account Holder and the law enforcement agencies, the signing of memorandums of cooperation and the exchange of information. In 2018, 21 criminal acts were launched with 23 reports of the Accounts Pay. Even this account room report that we're hearing with you right now looks better structured and more attractive and understandable. As recommended by the Committee in 2018 for the promotion of the German Association for International Cooperation of GIZ, an independent functional evaluation of the activities of the Court of Auditors was conducted for the first time by experts from the National Audit Office of the United Kingdom. According to the Court of Auditors, in early 2019 there was still work to be done to harmonize the final edition of the report on such a functional evaluation. The report does not provide information on the results of the evaluation. However, according to part of article 30 of the Law, the annual report on the activity of the Court of Auditors should contain information on the results of the external evaluation of the activity of the Court of Auditors in the event of such action. So we really expect to see the results of such a report about the functional evaluation made by the office, the auditorium of Great Britain. Parliament, for its part, contributes to the development and strengthening of the independence of the Court of Auditors. Yes, at the end of 2018, the initiative of the Court of Auditors and the support of the Committee of Budgets has been legislatively strengthened by the social guarantees for the activities of the members of the Court of Auditors and the staff of the Court of Auditors. The mandate of the Court of Auditors has been extended for the audit of the coming and the use of local budgets. A round table was also held in the Supreme Council at the proposal of the Association of Ukrainian Lawyers on the theme "Parliamentary control in the field of public finances", which highlights the importance of improving the regulatory level of the public finances control system and further implementing international financial control standards in Ukraine. At the same time, for the proper staffing of the Court of Auditors (it is our duty, the Supreme Council, to approve the border number of the Office of the Court of Auditors), the budget committee proposed the corresponding draft decree at number 8595 in July of last year. And our responsibility is still in this call by the Supreme Council to consider this draft decree and to approve the marginality of the office of the accountancy. Last year, according to the results of the 2017 report of the Court of Auditors, the Committee on Budget Affairs made recommendations to the Court of Auditors for improvement of the work that it handled and was largely accounted for. According to the 2018 report, the Budget Committee concluded on a number of issues that require further attention by the Court of Auditors with a view to improving its effectiveness, some of which are also mentioned by the Court of Auditors in the report as key challenges and priorities for the near future. As a result, the committee gave the Court of Auditors appropriate recommendations, including: speeding up the approval of the general concept of the development of the Court of Auditors, the more the results already available – the first time that international experts conducted an independent functional evaluation of the activities of this State body last year. Strengthen the work on the implementation of international standards and public financial control methods in the Court of Auditors, and carry out financial audits of all major public budget managers. Approve methodological recommendations for external financial audit of the coming and use of local budgets. Consider the possibility of external control in the area of treasury management of public budget funds. In general, after considering the report, the Committee on Budget Questions adopted a decision in a given project to each national deputy: the report of the Court of Auditors is to be made public. And the committee with.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u105	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u106	And the Committee on Budget Affairs has made specific recommendations to the Court of Auditors, which we hope the Court of Auditors will take into account. And one more thing, the distinguished national MPs, especially the factions. We haven't done that since we reformed the House of Accounts, and we haven't taken advantage of one of the key features that are in factions. The faction has the right, the faction has the right to initiate an extra-curricular procedure with regard to the activities of any state authority in Ukraine that operates on public finances. So I encourage the factions to take advantage of this possibility, because the MPs' appeals or requests are the right of the Court of Auditors to include and carry out a control measure, and here is the faction, if it initiates this question in Parliament and 150 votes, then this question will necessarily be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u107	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u108	then the matter will necessarily be addressed by the Court of Auditors and the relevant conclusion of the Court of Auditors on the state financial control measure will be given. I want to thank the head of the Accounting Chamber and all the members of the Accounting Chamber for their fruitful work. And I hope that, indeed, we will hear from this rostrum not only once a year information about what measures have been taken to control the House of Auditors and what violations have been committed, if they have been, at the disposal of public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u109	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum. One more question, Mr. Ivan. Yes, and I'd like you to include five minutes for a question to the committee reporter. I would like to point out that John Krulko was one of the ideologists in the formation of the Court of Auditors and the permanent lobbyist of its election. I think we should thank him for the fact that the House of Accounts is and works. Please, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u110	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to your colleague Eutusek Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u111	Eutushka, Fatherland. Mr. Head of the Subcommittee, we've listened very carefully to the report of the Court of Auditors, and also, in fact, your statement from the committee, and you've talked a lot about the fact that the efficient use of the funds of the local budgets, not just the central authorities, is a priority for the Court of Auditors. I know a number of cities in Ukraine, I won't call them, but a number of cities, when we give them the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make these costs transitional, and unfortunately these costs cannot be realized. Well, I think that kind of authority is sometimes in places, such measures, such leaders of the RDA and heads of the district government. Are you planning on interacting with the Accounting Chamber in this direction in the Committee on Budget Issues in order to bring such woe leaders to justice? Inflation eats up all the costs, prices grow, and services.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I would like to say that the Court of Auditors has the ability to verify local budgets, but within the framework of the funds allocated from the state budget. And the House of Accounts is doing this kind of control. But at the same time, the question that you raised is really a serious problem, because we saw a situation where the urban heads of funds in the local budget didn't use to improve the situation in the city, not to infrastructure projects, not to repair schools, gardens, clinicians, and these funds are just deposited, there are cases and corruption when they're making deals with banks to keep these funds there longer, and cities are in the same disgraceful state. That's why this situation is also, and we know very well about it, and we think that, in fact, the controlling authorities have to take steps to ensure that public funds belonging to the communities are used effectively rather than on bank deposits. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u113	Colleagues, before I ask you the following question, I want to say that after the break, there will be factions from the factions and speeches from the national MPs. Because they're asking me if there's going to be any factions. Of course, according to the Rules, each faction will have the right to speak and give the same time for deputies. And so we're going to work both after the break and the factions, and I'm going to warn you that maybe you'd be more comfortable, we're going to have to record before the break, so the factions can see who's going to appear, and after the break, we're going to start with the factions. Shevchenko Viktor Leonidovich now. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u114	Victor Shevchenko, 85th constituency. Please pass the word to Oleg Musia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u115	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency, Sokalstina, Czervonograd, Health Committee. You know, the Honorary Reporter, the Health Committee, just in response to the 5 tests of the Court of Auditors at our initiative of the Ministry of Health, has also referred to what cannot, in fact, be referred to as the Court of Auditors: criminal offences of officials of the Ministry of Health on the theft and purposeless use of funds. Please tell me, and the Committee on Budget Affairs after considering this report from the Court of Auditors, have you also asked your committee about criminal conduct against officials of the ministries, the first persons of the ministries and, in fact, the government? Because they must bear responsibility for the misuse of public funds. Have you made such a request from your committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u116	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to say to you, my dear colleague, that when we heard the report presented by the Head of the Court of Auditors, it was he who observed that the most violations and abuses in the use of public finances were in the line of the Ministry of Health, particularly with the treatment of sick Ukrainian citizens abroad. And, of course, as a committee, like any national MP, we have the right to appeal to law enforcement authorities about any fact of abuse or violation. But there's the bill on the House of Accounts, where we made the procedure very clear. If the Court of Auditors has detected a number of violations and abuses during the procedure, these materials are sent to the Attorney General’s Office, the Office of the Prosecutor - General is obliged to provide relevant information to the Single Register of Conduct, Criminal Procedures, and within a month to give information to the Court of Auditors that has been carried out. So there's no need for extra action that the committee or any deputy should do, because the House of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u117	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u118	The Court of Auditors enforces the law and sends such information. And you've heard of more than 80 criminal conducts that have been initiated by law enforcement agencies as a result of appropriate initiatives taken by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u119	Thank you. And a final question. Sverke Grigory Aronovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u120	Please give the floor to the colleague of Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u121	I would like to point out that I am continuing to attend this meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u122	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I realized, Ivan Ivanovich, that by giving such a thought, well, that we have chosen the Head of the Valery Paccan Accounting Chamber, and we. He really justified this trust, from your, you could say, performance. And that may well be the case. Why? Because we can see that he's always on the budget committee, and his deputies are there, and so on. But my question is, What is it? Because you did say 21 criminal cases, or 80. That's the first one. And the second. Is there any hope of answering the blame? And do you hope that all the funds will return to our country’s budget, those that have really been spent unjustly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. Well, since everybody's here, I'll try to be as honest as I can. This composition of the Court of Auditors, whether we like it or not, was formed by this composition of the Supreme Council. Two months from now, there will be the election of the Supreme Council for the term, and there will be a new Parliament, and there will be a new government. So I think that after the elections to Parliament and the formation of a new government, the independence of this House of Accounts will only increase. And here they will be able to fully reverse their activities and show professionalism about how public finances will be spent. Because still, since this composition formed the House of Accounts, it was overwhelming, whether we want to or not, in some way, to be able to, in fact, fully expose those who committed a breach of public finances. Although compared with previous periods, even now the Court of Auditors has shown better results than before. But it'll be even better.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u124	Thank you. Let's show them our professionalism together. So, colleagues, I propose we now record a sequence of statements from the factions. Just so we know who he's after. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to record the performances from the factions that will take place after the break. Please hold the recording. Please participate in the recording. Just so they know the sequence after the break. Please. Thus, such a sequence was recorded. And we'll start with it after the break. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that I now invite all the members of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice to the conference room, where the Conciliation Council is sitting. I would like to point out that all members of the committee should be present at a committee meeting so that we can decide on a review in the Electoral Codex on open lists. So I ask all the members of the committee to immediately go down to the conference room to make a decision. I'm calling a 30-minute recess under the Rules. And at 12:35, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Please prepare to speak from the MP factions. The first is the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u126	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The report of the Court of Auditors on the use of funds by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine is impressive and shocking. Over the past three years, more than 12 billion dollars have been allocated from the government budget to taxpayers for the purchase of drugs. The Court of Auditors has established that most of these funds are ineffectively used. A large number of people’s money has been transferred to foreign firms, and for years they have been turning in foreign banks instead of running contracts, carrying the drugs needed by Ukraine in time. For tens of millions of dollars, the Ministry of Health has disposed of the medicines purchased in connection with the completion of their expiration date. Millions of Ukrainians count every penny, go to a pharmacy like the museum, because their remittances and pensions do not allow them to buy drugs. At the same time, hospitals tell them that the drugs are not at the state's expense, go and buy. People don't have the money to buy drugs. As a result, they get sick and die. And at that time, huge batches of drugs are rotting in warehouses for tens of millions of dollars, which, instead of giving to Ukrainians, are then disposed of. For nearly 50 million dollars, medicines were purchased to treat children who were ill. At the same time, in the instructions to these medicines, "no use of them for the treatment of oncological children." Massive forgeries and abuse during the "Available Drugs" program. When pharmacies tell you that there are no drugs, and then those drugs that are sold a few times more on the "Affordable Drugs" program. There's no open register of government-produced drugs, so people say in the hospital, "No drugs, but he's at the bottom of the pharmacy, you can buy those three-way drugs." We demand another from the government. Prime Minister Groissman filed for resignation. It would have been wonderful before his resignation for the government to finally make a decision and resign its public health minister, Ulyana Suprun, in order to stop these abuses and abuses against the Ukrainians. We request the Attorney General’s Office, the State Bureau of Investigation, from other law enforcement agencies to investigate closely the facts published by the Court of Auditors on the abuse in the field of the Ministry of Health. Millions of Ukrainian children, adults, older people, have no opportunity because of the criminal activity of the MOH. These crimes must be stopped. The supremacist must be called to account. Save the lives of Ukrainians!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u127	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak to the faction of Self-Help of National Deputy Tetjan Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u128	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, dear Ukrainians! We've just heard the Court of Auditors report, which actually contains a diagnosis and a verdict of the government for its activities during 2017-2018. I'm going to read a few literally from this report a couple of theses. The minimum of living was calculated without taking into account the real changes in population needs and social development. The calculations are based on food and non-food supplies and services approved by a government decree that is invalid. So we can even see that the statements that I, the Self-Help faction, the Fatherland, have said in the budget vote that it is calculated on the basis of unrealistic indicators, both economic and macroeconomic, are now fully supported by this document. The other one. The government budget income plan for 2018 was not implemented for 18.7 billion dollars. The main reason is the lack of forecasting, the planning of the incomes of payments that are not regulated by legislation. What does this talk about? This suggests that the government does not take those measures to detoxify the economy and does not even collect taxes properly where it should be done today. So all the statements are loud about the beginning of another fight and the violent attack on smuggling along with the forces of the various "masses" and the various vendettas is nothing more than a lie. I asked the Head of the Court of Auditors whether they had made it to the State Budget in 2018 that 100 billion dollars from the anti-trafficking measures promised by the Prime Minister. No, there's no money. Now I want to inform you that the Court of Auditors is writing about the implementation of the 2019 budget. Again, there are additional reserves of income tax. This means that the government has deliberately lowered this tax rate by 13.2 billion dollars. Reserves available to increase the revenue of the state budget due to the reduction in the amount of shaded fuel. The head of the Court of Auditors has informed us that this is at least 25 billion dollars, which today, as a result of the poor government policy, are walking in the pockets rather than working on the state budget and are not in the pockets of the Ukrainians today. I analyzed the receipts from customs payments as the head of the Customs Subcommittee. In May, the plan was 29.4 billion, executed, 22.3. In the four months of 2019: the plan was 102 billion, withdrawn, fact 90. Implementation of the May Plan - 88 percent, implementation of the four-month plan for customs payments - 76 percent. These are real government performance indicators. So before any resignations, the report and the political responsibility, because leadership provides for responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u129	Thank you. And a representative of Fatherland is invited to the floor, National Deputy Sergei Eutuszk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u130	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Dear colleagues, today we are considering and considering the report of the Court of Auditors, and the best indicator of this body's work would obviously be the decline in corruption in Ukraine, both by the central authorities and by the horizontal authorities of all local authorities. 80 criminal cases, Valery Vasilovich, this is an indicator, but a "black day" for the government can't come for one simple reason: because this is the very majority that appointed the government to work, and you were assigned, and the entire composition of the Accounting Chamber. So obviously we're going to expect that with the change in government, with the change in political elites, and your body is still working because the constitutional term is longer than this election period. We will expect you to be more principled in view of your promises here. We were talking about NAC Naftogaz here today. Please note that this corrupt monster has so much to absorb the cost of Ukrainian citizens to build our country, but it's going to buy airplanes, on various programs, on different hotels, on filming offices and a number of other unhealthy, abnormal stories that have a corrupt component. I also want to pay attention to your work with the local authorities. It is here that violent experiences arise as income arrives. This Ukrainian Parliament provides the possibility of transitional funds for local self-government authorities, given that a month can be allocated at the end of the year, but this is an exception. And unfortunately, we're seeing that for a few years, the costs are either on the account or on the deposit, and they're not doing their job at all. What happens to the money, I'm going to ask everyone, and the Ukrainians, when they're lying for a long time? Costs are dwindling as the price of goods increases, and the service increases every month. And what could be done for this year's cost, next year it'll be more expensive. That's why I want to, and this is going to be your task, to step up the interaction with the authorities, with the strong structures, and check out the organs of local self-government. For example, you can now consider this a reference to me: the city of Sarna, which has been accounted for for 50 million dollars for 30 million dollars in a city for several years. It's very important that the money should be used in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u131	Thank you. And please, the next performance is Igor Shurma of the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u132	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Please tell me, who doesn't know Rudy Juliani? Former mayor of New York, Trump's attorney. In 2017, he was in Ukraine, and he passed on Trump's words to the Ukrainian people and to the authorities, "Return to Ukraine, its greatness." And that meant that the government that you have to have, it has to be, it deserves honesty. He has to be honest with you, he has to work for people, not for those who use budget flows, who wear bribes, who practice ideologies. There should be no people who break up, corrupt power, then can't be counted on honesty. The tolerance for corruption, which is the result, must be zero. And that doesn't mean you won't have corruption because he said that both Reagan and Bush and Obama had corruption because, despite the President, there are thousands of people working dishonestly. But it's important to find them and bring them to justice. Who in Ukraine can do this? The D.A., the D.A., the N.A.U.U., the D.B.I., all you want, eventually, the government. Who's giving the material? There are people who can. You know how ants are forest sanitation, here they are, budget-flow sanitation. They're people who aren't enemies, they're people who point to abuse and put cards in their hands in order to warn the piggybackgate at the right time. I will tell you that the work of these people deserves deep respect, for on the profile committee we considered five references. Now everybody's waving their hand that he's making a statement. I have the moral right to say that for three years now I have been talking about the misuse of the budget of the Ministry of Health. There's orders here, they can't be listed when in the 19th year, they're dispensing drugs, the allocated money that was in the 15th year, in the 16th year, in the 17th year. Three years ago, 16 billion were allocated to Bank of America — no money, no drugs. And those people should be held accountable. I'm talking to everyone: don't insist on the liberation of the Suprun. It's not punishment, it's indulgence. She has to answer criminally. Don't move it! She drowned Dusty. She drowned the powder score! If you move it, the whole government will have a chance at life. She'll drown them! And in the future, those who will come will have to place emphasis so that there will be no such thing in the future. Of course, the professional work of the Court of Auditors deserves respect, they give us a chance to be honest. You're grateful, and you're all thinking about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u133	Please welcome me from the People's Front, National Deputy Taras Kremen. Please, Taras Kremen, we invite you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u134	Taras Kremen, People's Front. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the House of Auditors, directly the head of Mr. Valeria Paccan, for the detailed report. He really deserves a thorough study not only in the session hall, but I think that each of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could have a detailed, divisive, detailed, but pay attention to those parameters that would be worth further studying and showing the level of parliamentaryism in order for the next composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to still keep this level and move from the level of populism that has been deploring lately to the level of professional dialogue, professional discussion and discussion of very important issues related to public funds. As a national MP from Santa, I want to unify all the problems that we have had in this session hall for five years, and I want to stop at the screamers who have become the marker of our present. It was said about the efficiency of different ministries, but I want to say that if there were no national N-11 and N-14s, there are no N-14s. Santa is cut off in the south not only on one side of the sea but also on the other side of the road. And if we don't talk about new investors coming in, we have a road fund, we have a scale control system, N-11 and N-14, it's not a road, it's a direction. And so I ask you to pay close attention to that. The second problem of Santa is the inefficient use of educational subsidies. Unfortunately, our area was unable to use the funds to train teachers for the New Ukrainian School at the same time last year or this year to buy equipment and computer technology. And in addition to everything else, we were never able to show an example of how we really should use those funds. Because it's mostly the same firms, the same contractors, the same opaque purchasing procedures, and it certainly affects the level of educational reform that we supported by this Parliament in 2017. And I want to thank those colleagues who believe that education reform will not be stopped by a new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We need to do this important experiment until we see the first issue of our 12 years. Regarding the educational subsidy, I prepared a parliamentary request for the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the right time. So I hope that in the near future we will hear specific answers for your support as well. The third thing I'm interested in is the efficiency of using the funds that have been allocated to the State Regional Development Fund. So it happened that we have about 100 million already worth of swimming pools in the garden. In the district center, there is a swimming pool, and in Nova Buza, where the school fell two years ago, no copies, including the project. The hospice's capital repair has not been completed. Because of the lack of budget, hospice is still behind the web. And I want to support my colleague John Savka, the legendary commander of the 79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u135	Please finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u136	There's no military housing in Santa Claus. We have the largest military contingent in Ukraine, so our military, who pay about one billion dollars a year to the local budgets, is worthy of respect. I want to turn to everyone who has something to do with the control bodies, the law enforcement agencies, the Ministry of Internal Affairs: to pay special attention to that. And thank you, dear fellows, for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u137	Thank you, Mr. Taras. And please welcome Arthur Gerasimov to the floor, and he will present his position on the question of Peter Dustenk's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u138	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear colleagues! Honorable Members of the Court of Auditors! Dear Ukrainians! First of all, I would also like to join in saying thank you to all who have previously expressed their gratitude to the updated, I would like to emphasize once again, the updated Chamber of Accounts. Thank you very much for your work because you have done more in this short period of time than you have done in many years. You know, I specifically took with me the report of the Court of Auditors, and the key priorities of the work: the new quality of audit, the new quality of audiences, integration into the world auditing system and, most importantly, openness. Because after all the factions of Parliament. I want to remind you of that day: we voted all the key that we have in the House of Accounts, the representatives of almost all the factions and groups, and you remember these votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Almost all factions and groups. We keep in touch with the members of the Court of Auditors: and during meetings of the Conciliation Board, during committee meetings, during meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And that's right, because communication and openness and transparency, and it's giving the results that we see today in the activities of the updated Auditorium. What causes some anxiety? The fact that the Court of Auditors gives all its work is that it exposes the law enforcement authorities, but in many cases we do not see a worthy continuation. I've already mentioned today the situation with the State Enterprise, where more than 400 million dollars were stolen (let's call things our names - stolen). Open criminal cases. At first, the NABA could not find anything. The account room, if I'm not mistaken, found everything in two months: with bills, with censuses, who, like, by letters, passed all the material to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. But what do we see? The visa is still there, and the CEO of this company, Mr. Babeiczuk, is still in office. There's a question for the department of profile: what's going on? So 400 million dollars -- it's not stolen, it's proved by an updated House of Accounts, it's not a reason for a minimum of official investigation? And there's a lot of questions. But lastly, I would like to focus your attention on the fact that, on behalf of the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block in Parliament, on behalf of the European Solidarity Party, I would like to reiterate once again that we will always be supporting all the beginnings of the updated Chamber of Accounts, which are aimed at enhancing the effectiveness of its activities. And from our faction, from the team of Peter Dustenk, this support will always be significant and will always be directed to make as much as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u139	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u140	And it's going to be aimed at making as many decisions as possible in the anti-corruption struggle against our House of Auditors as we can see in public space. And I'm going to end up with very simple words today. I believe that the updated Chamber of Accounts is one of the best anti-corruption bodies in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u141	Thank you, Your Honor. And I remind you that, according to the Rules, there is now an opportunity to sign up to the MPs, which is given nine minutes. It's going to be three performances by the national MPs. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to do the recording now. Dear colleagues, we have a large, I see, list of those who wish to join the debate. I don't think there'll be any objections in the hall if I'm presiding more time for speeches in 15 minutes. In 15 minutes. There's no objection in the hall. Please, the national deputy Eutuszek is invited to speak. You'll be out of place, won't you, Mr. Sergei?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u142	Eutushka, Fatherland. Please pass the word to Oleni Babak of the Self-Help faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u143	Ms. Helena, happy to invite you to the rostrum, and we'll give you six minutes right away, because the same way Taras Shepherd gives you three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u144	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It's wonderful that we've got in the form of parliamentary control the report of the House of Auditors. And I work for the Construction, Urban and Housing Committee. She spoke with her colleague Taras Shepherd, Jegor Sobolev, to the minister of defense about the effectiveness of the state’s housing program for the military. And I'm seeing today that there's a single focus in the report of the Court of Auditors on the inefficiency of the use of state budget funds, which is about the cost of construction, the acquisition of housing for military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We see that 13.6 percent of the most inefficient programs are in military housing. I just have a lot of pain today because my fellow nationals and I have done a lot of work to analyze these years of military housing programs, and we have actually seen terrible examples of inefficient use of funds. We have objects in the city of Chugoviv, in Volodymyr Volinsky, Bolgrad, Berdichev, Odessa, Stry and many others, which started in 2004, 2007, 8th year, 7th year, and so on and so forth. And these objects in their time were built by almost 90 percent. But all of a sudden, in the U.S. state budget today, these programs show that they are not completed by 40 percent, or only 40 percent. And the cost of these objects has increased over the years: 10 times, 6 times, out of 20 million, it has become 90 million the same object. And it's not finished to date as it was put into service. It's about housing for people on the front. And the Ministry of Defense allows itself to inefficiently use the funds under this government program. When I showed all the problems with the cost index of this housing over the years that these objects are just kept on balance for indexation, in order to increase this value and not bring these objects into service, the Accounting Chamber, they said, "We've seen the inefficiency of this program, look at the report on the website." Ladies and gentlemen, what actions? What's the action? When we see what Minister Poltorak said: I see this problem, all the objects that started the construction, which have the funds in the state budget of Ukraine, and they've been there since the 7th year, we've been finishing them in the 18th year, in the 19th year? That's not happening. Please tell me that the MPs, which form of parliamentary control should be applied in order for the government to handle such facts, I think this is already an abuse in the area of construction, and more on such an area as the construction of housing for military personnel, to correct this terrible situation? What else do you need? My friends, and Taras Shepherd, unfortunately, are not in public access. I ask the head of the Supreme Council for the reply of Minister Poltork regarding the readiness, the object, of every building of housing for the military to publish and make available. I want those soldiers, those officers standing in line waiting for housing on these objects that we have every year as a temporary burnout, from year to year in the budget to see these objects, to see how much value these objects have increased over the years, but they are not yet put into service today. I'm just asking. It's not classified information, it's not official information -- it's a matter of housing for the military. So I ask you to publish Minister Poltork's reports in response to my parliamentary requests, along with Taras Shepherd, and then my individual reports. Because there's no action. I want every soldier publicly to see the profit of the officials of the higher echelon in their homes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u145	Thank you. Mr. Melnik, national deputy, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Melnik Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u146	Good afternoon, dear fellows! As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I really want to say that the new composition of the Court of Auditors, which I enjoy, has stopped being just statisticians. And it's very important, because we all know the problem, we all know the facts -- we see the same thing. And today we wanted to hear more, and what are the solutions, and what are the suggestions, how we're going to move, how we're going to correct those mistakes that were made. Because when you hear this report, as a minimum, the individual arrangers, the principals of the funds, it's a minimum, they just have to resign tomorrow, because when you talk today, it's going to be one and a half billion inefficient use of the funds, and let's say, seven positions -- there, and 4 billion, well, it's just a huge resource -- 17 billion. And if you look at the budget revenue issues -- about 25 billion, including customs payments. Unfortunately, we didn't succeed during this period to make it possible to pass on the customs declaration of our Polish colleagues because there is a real price reflection. And that invasion that seems to be on Polish customs is a fact. Unfortunately, when a tax note is taken on the Kiev Customs, there are completely different prices. So I think in this direction you want a proposal from the accounting room. Next. I would also like to point out that the Court of Auditors, let's say, has given a lot of attention to the efficiency of the use of funds. I think it's question number one today. Since we are moving to a budget declaration, we see that the principals of the funds are, unfortunately, not working in this direction either. And I think it's from the Court of Auditors that we need help as a budget committee so that we can write out the budget declaration clearly, we could write out those programs that clearly assess the efficiency criteria for using the funds in the budget programming phase. Because unfortunately, today we only have a software budgeting method called, and in fact, the economic classification and efficiency of the use of the resource alone, which has little attention. I'd also like to hear the Court of Auditors' position on the resonant issues. This is, first of all, we haven't received any professional confirmation of both the Naftogaz question and the Rotterdam Plus question and the 2.5 billion schedules, we still don't understand at the stage of creating a new budget. Will they be back in the budget, the 2.5 billion that the DFS has delayed, or what is their perspective? That's the last of it. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u147	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u148	a new membership for active participation in the work of the Committee on Budgets, for your suggestions. And I think that's how it works, and we're looking for more concrete, bigger proposals. In general, this will benefit and be effective in the use of budgetary resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u149	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And we invite you to the speech of National Deputy Igor Shurma. He'll have six minutes. He is given the right to speak by his colleague Nechayev. And also on the record is Mr. Shurma himself. Please, Mr. Shurma. And then we have two more performances from the People's Front, colleagues. Or one performance, we'll watch it every now and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. See, the long-standing problem of Ukraine’s new history: we are all trying to fight corruption and overcome it. There was no president, no prime minister, no political power to endorse and fight corruption. Why do we have a situation like this? And I'm explaining. If we have today a reliable, professional material presented by the Court of Auditors, which was in its own time chosen and approved by the European Choice Coalition, you who came at the Wave of the Dignity Revolution, you trusted those people, and they're doing their work professionally. Here's a question. Why is every report they send to the Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the State Bureau of Investigation, informing the Prime Minister, informing the President of Ukraine, and there is no response? What is the value of the data they have found and recorded? These are no longer political figures or political accusations. The World Bank of Ukraine allocated $214 million to health care reform. I'm sorry, it's 6 billion, I'm stressing, the bracelets that have to be paid off with interest. It's because they're being developed. In four years, big reformers -- well, they're big for someone, and for us, they're people who don't have an education, because they only use a fraction of the money. But the World Bank is a pragmatist. Do you think they are thinking about reforming the health care of Ukraine? They think about how to make money and how to put their game rules into practice. We pay fines for the timeless use of the funds and their storage. During those years, we paid 100 million dollars for not using the money. Is this a crime? Crime. Who Are Responsible? Ministry of Health. I'm turning to the government that will report tomorrow. For what, sorry for the rude word "shish," do you defend the Suprun, a full-blown case that was tried in court? The kind of "shish" the President was looking at, he knows. He's ex- today, and he's going to have a lot of questions. We're talking about international purchasing, international organizations, buying cheaper drugs. Do you know who's doing the shopping for us? "Crown Agens" is a structure that provides third-world countries. The European Choice Coalition, which has been in power for four years, thank you, you've compared us to third world countries! Do you think they're normal? If normal, why are more than 100 million used to dispose of drugs that are termed at the expense of our budget? The suprean who said in court, "You can't do that because I'm signing the drug distribution papers." I've shown you a whole package of documents. In April of this year, she was doing drugs that came along, paid for in 2017, in 2016. Who's protecting her? She's protected by the government, protected by the President, protected by MPs, who in four years, in three years, failed to run for office as minister. In some ways, we focus only on the responsibility of the Ministry of Health for the matter. Let's be fair, there are few experts there, but there is still legal responsibility. Where's the second department that answers? I don't want to make any mistake, or the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Economics, they're also responsible for these costs. We will say: Will international organizations lend us money under such conditions? They will be. You know why? Because if we look at how their money is used at a press conference, at a conference and round tables, at the most expensive hotels, at the most expensive restaurants, at the most expensive establishments. Breaks and pays their experts, they work for themselves. What have we received, virtually, health protection from all of this? There's absolutely nothing in the balance. We have a unique chance today. I had the opportunity to work in the Supreme Council for four years, and there was also a good House of Accounts, but then the issue of corruption was not yet the same as it is now. Today we have a professional, uninvolved, I'm speaking as a political opponent to those people -- uninvolved professionals who provide materials to stop this corruption, the phenomenon as such. But in order to do that, we have to have a prosecutor, an S.B.I., an N.B.I., who responds to their results. If they do not respond to their material, they will, you know, be like whom? To a doctor who treats and wants to treat, treat, and treat, and dies. We want to fight corruption, let's support the House of Accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u151	Please make your last speech. Dear colleagues, last performance. People's Chamberlain, give you your word, please. You'll be out of town? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u152	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I'd still like to focus on the issues that we've been discussing. Because when I mentioned roads N-11, N-14, they're not just national, they're strategic. Because in fact, starting in the 14th year, all the rotations, all the combat units, the formations that went east, they went directly through these roads. And whoever's talking to us today, it's a matter of national security and defense. I hope that the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence has already begun to listen to us, and I think it will be very important for him to know that this is the same area of his competence -- the solution to the issue of transport connections. As far as housing is concerned, I'd like to explain, because every year about 1 billion dollars that come into the local budgets, if you talk about the Mikolai region, and they're depositing, that's a huge crime. And the local authorities know all about it, because we have military units in both Mikolayev and Oczek and Pervomaysk and Wozniessenski. I don't see the queues, the huge numbers of deputies during the local council sessions, when they're looking at the issue of housing benefits, when they're deciding on the question of paying children to kindergartens, when they're deciding on the construction of health, education, and, above all, military personnel. And that, of course, is a huge problem. And the third thing I want to focus on. I would also like to thank on behalf of our Committee on Science and Education for the cooperation we have been able to make in recent times. And directly to the deputy head of Andrey Meisner, who has been to our committee several times, who is equally in pain for education and science, including. Another important thing I'd like to stop at is the question of higher education. In recent years, we have seen a significant drop in the number of students, but at the same time, the network of higher education institutions is not shrinking, nor is the salary of the rectors. I can tell you that in mycolayian national universities, we have four of them: students are getting smaller and smaller, the salaries of the rectors are getting bigger and bigger, soliciting more and more. If they used to ride the Volga and the Dwarves, they're on foreign markets today. Please pay attention to this, and this is fundamentally important, because the question of higher education, including when we give it to foreign students, is the question of our image of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u153	Thank you. Thus, the honourable colleagues, the speeches by the deputies, have been completed. Now I'm going to give you a closing statement, but one minute, I want to give you an important message that the Legal Political Committee has decided on the Electoral Code with open lists. That means we're just going to have to prepare tables right now. It's 4.5 thousand rights, and, you know, the tables are going to be pretty large, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus is going to be working hard, obviously not going to be able to do that by tomorrow. But next week, that means we'll be able to go over the election code for open lists. Next step. We await the decision of the regulatory committee on the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions. It is less extensive. We'll be able to get the temporary commission of inquiry to start tomorrow, and after the TSC Act is concluded, we'll go to the polling lists. Such a plan is recommended, and I am confident that we will all support it, and this Supreme Council of Ukraine will still make historic decisions to develop Ukrainian parliamentaryism and Ukraine as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't overdo it. It's such a big plan. So, colleagues, I invite you to the closing statement the head of Valery Vasilovich Packaan's House of Auditors for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u154	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich, thank you to all the National Deputies for evaluating our work for the year. It was this Council that chose the updated composition of the Court of Auditors, and it was this Council that we were to be informed in the first year of our activities. I and all my members have heard the suggestions made in this room, and we will certainly pay attention to them. And most importantly, let's post-control the recommendations that we put on our subjects in the control of ministries and offices. What Is Needed? There is much more to be done. The independence of the Court of Auditors needs to be strengthened, the responsibility of ministries and authorities for failing to comply with budgetary legislation and failure to comply with the requirements of the Court of Auditors needs to be strengthened. We have a parliamentary-presidency state, Parliament has the right to make decisions, Parliament has to make decisions about those ministries and departments, about those ministers who are inefficient in using funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that the electoral race is on its way, and I understand that the Council and many of you will be on this council in the next call. We are ready to communicate, we are ready to cooperate, and we are ready to continue doing our work effectively, honestly, impartially. Andry Volodymyrovich, thank you for your assessment of our work, thank you to all the National Deputies. Let's work together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u155	Thank you. In turn, I would like to thank both the head of the Court of Auditors and all the members of the Court of Auditors for their professional work. I wish you the same quality work, and I believe that reports will now be, as provided for by law, every year. And I would like to report that the annual report of the Court of Auditors on its activities for 2018 has been completed. The annual report is taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the knowledge. Thank you. Successful and fruitful work! Good luck! [[Applause]] So, colleagues, we agreed yesterday that we would be able to consider an important topic that is important for discussion. This is the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination against Women from Vulnerable Social Groups. We have a tradition that we have the ability to put one of the topics and just debate it. And I think today is actually a good day for us to be able to talk about this topic that's extremely important to society, to exchange thoughts, to prepare it for making a decision, so that when there's maximum mobilization in the room, we can make it. And that's why I'm announcing the move to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation: Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination against Women from Vulnerable Social Groups (No.9408). And I invite you to report to the head of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, the National Minor and International Relations of Soslov Irina Mikolayevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u156	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, is proposing a draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Prevention and Opposition of Discrimination against Women from Socially Insensitive Groups (registration No. 9408). Colleagues, October 10, 2018, held parliamentary hearings. Isn't this the first time we've openly talked at a high level in this rostrum about the problems that millions of Ukrainian women are worried about? These specific challenges of life, which are often able to turn life into hell. It is when a woman with disabilities is not admitted to a hospital because there is no adapted equipment there; when women who are internally displaced cannot find employment and housing for themselves and their child; when rural women, in the morning and late at night, are free of charge or underpaid to work hard, but do not have access to quality health care; when women who are serving sentences are constantly humiliated and subjected to inhuman conditions when HIV positive women are deprived of their right to maternity; when Roma women are kept in ignorance and begging from birth to death. We talked about scary things that don't leave people indifferent at least with a minimal capacity for compassion. Over 700 participants and participants attended the hearing, representatives of the ministries of profile, departments, members of different levels, representatives of international organizations, and the public sector. Women who came out of the rostrum are strong people. They didn't complain about life, they didn't ask for anything. They demanded that their rights be guaranteed because they are human rights: the right to dignity, to respect, to education, to medicine, to safety and, at last, to life. Together we have formed a list of proposals and recommendations to various authorities, they are clear, very specific, and above all fair. Today, these recommendations come to your attention. For them to go to the execution, it takes approval, as you know, of the Ukrainian Parliament. These recommendations relate to the problems of rural women, internally displaced women, women with disabilities and HIV, Roma women and women in detention. These recommendations are addressed to the government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the State Judicial Administration, local executive authorities, and local authorities. In general, the document you have received contains 82 recommendations, each of which is the key to solving a very specific problem. Some of them I want to stop at in more detail. Recommendations addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine First. At the legislative level, settle quota issues in electoral legislation. The other one. To adopt Bill 8558, which will have a significant impact on advertisers to influence producers of discriminatory advertising. Third. Amendments to article 12 of the Law on Helping Families with Children to Increase Childbirth Assistance Next. Strengthen parliamentary control over the implementation of the UN Committee's concluding observations on the protection of people with disabilities. Recommendations addressed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine According to women with disabilities: first, to ensure implementation, including proper funding for the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; second, to take account of the problems of girls and women with disabilities in the development of State programmes and legislation. Next. Improve access for girls and women with disabilities to health care, including in the reproductive field. According to Roma women: to strengthen control and implementation of the plan of action for the implementation of the protection and integration strategy in the Ukrainian society of the Roma national minority until 2020; and second, to institutionalize the profession of "Roma mediators". Next. To prevent the posting of messages on official websites of law enforcement agencies where the language of hostility is used in relation to representatives of national minorities. For internally displaced women, the most important two things are. The first is to launch an information campaign on the positive experience of integration into new VPO women's communities. This experience is, but unfortunately no one is talking about it. And the second is to take into account the needs of women in the economic recovery of areas affected by war. Women living with HIV You know, I think the most important question is to exclude the diagnosis of HlV from the medical prognosis of the use of assisted reproductive technologies in female infertility treatment. People who have this terrible diagnosis today can't use reproductive programs. Recommendations of a general nature. Approve the State Social Programme to prevent and combat domestic violence until 2023. Develop a mechanism to stimulate employers to equalize the pay gap between men and women. To make a powerful information campaign against gender discrimination, to bring legislation on labour protection into line with European standards. To train publishing staff to overcome stereotypes about men and women, to provide quality educational services to girls from socially vulnerable groups. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should inform society about the activities of international organizations to combat discrimination against women from socially vulnerable groups. To train judges, lawyers, law enforcement officers to apply better practices to protect the rights of women who have suffered discrimination, to provide effective psychological assistance and support to workers in the penitentiary system. You know, we forget about them very often. Recommendations addressed to local executives and local authorities To involve women internally displaced persons in decentralization projects, to ensure the proportionate participation of rural women in the development strategy of the territorial communities, to review current programmes and measures to match the State Social Programme for the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men, UN Council Resolutions "Women, Peace, Security", concluding observations by the UN Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Review the format of the work of the established advisory bodies on ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men to transform them into an effective tool of public policy. Dear colleagues, I very much expect that once these recommendations are approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, these recommendations will form the basis for effective future decision-making by officials. Effectiveness will be measured, not in the number of legal acts, but in the practical results. If tomorrow, mammograms will appear in hospitals for women with disabilities, if women's colonies are no longer brutally searched for men in non-specialized places, if HIV-positive women are given the opportunity and the right to adopt a child if Roma girls are not married at 13, then we have won. And I want each of you to take your share of this victory today. The Committee on Human Rights of National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on December 6, 2018, reviewed the draft decree and recommended it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please replace the date of the briefing of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from September 1, 2019 to December 1, 2019. My colleagues, I would like to point out that each of you should have received a book like this, which contains all the speeches, completely, of those speakers who spoke at the parliamentary hearings. In addition to the fact that this book contains all the presentations, there is a regulation that could be consulted on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I realize that today there is no need for a number of deputies to support this decision. But, nevertheless, I believe that, as the honourable chairman pointed out, we are obliged to speak here, in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, from this rostrum. We need to give not just an answer, but to adopt very specific recommendations on the issues that I have just raised in my report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u157	Thank you. I ask you to remain, Your Honor, on the rostrum. And, colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question. [[Unheard]] Someone's gonna turn the phone off, right, fellas? Please have a question from the national deputy of Jurik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u158	The next question is from the National MP of Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u159	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course we should. After all, this decision must, as they say, have its place. Because what we heard today, the reporter read it to us, of course, it's amazing here. Often, I'll say that we didn't all know this and this truth, and so on, although we know a lot. The attitude of both the HIV-positive and the young children of the Roma, and so on. That's my question. Tell me, please, are there, have you been approached by a committee, or personally, or so forth, examples where children of Roma, in fact, were married at 12-13 years of age, where they really didn't give birth to HIV-positive babies and all that? Have there been such examples, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u160	Thank you for asking. Of course, these were not mere appeals. As a Human Rights Committee, we held two field meetings, one of which was in the Carpathians, and one of our colleagues, Mr. Paccan, was in the Roma settlements. Yes, we have seen not only those children who are at the age of 13 who are already their wives, girls, and we have seen children who do not have documents, who have no birth certificate, who are unable to receive quality medical care if necessary. And you know, I want to say that today the Ministry of Culture has created an appropriate group in which we work and work on complex changes to the strategy, to the "Roma Strategy." And I hope that the next strategy, it involves all these painful questions. And given that the executive authorities are actually working with us quite effectively, I'm hoping that in five to seven years we'll be able to resolve all the issues that I've just pointed out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, the next question is Barna's national deputy. Please have a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u162	In Ukrainian traditions, motherhood always prevailed, regardless of the belligerence of our ancestors, because the woman was the person who had the house on her and the family, she was a source of peace and family comfort. We honor, we respect, we protect, we defend our women, because the strength of a woman is primarily in her weakness. But please, and I'm asking you, from my constituents for the inadmissibility of implementing European values that do not correspond to our national, Christian, moral and family values that are inherent in the Ukrainian nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u164	You know, I don't think a woman is just a mother, but a man is not just a father, but a woman today is also a soldier and a sniper and a scout and a volunteer and a man who provides medical care for the front. And I want to point out that 55,000 women are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military formations. And we have to give them what they deserve, they're part of the fighting, they're the people who do the fighting. We should bear in mind that the woman is not only on the watch of the house and the family today, she is on the watch for both the economy and the security and the energy, including. And I'm asking you to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u165	Please, the next question. Mrs. Queen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for your time in protecting women. But first of all, a woman is a mother. And I also want to address both the presiding officer and the national deputies present. We're going to have June 1st, and we're all going to go around the country to talk about how we love, protect children, draw pictures with them, drawings and so on. But what's most important today is that we do everything we can to protect our children, to support families with children, to protect single mothers, to do everything we can to support children with disabilities, children living in a red zone. And that's why we're asking you to support the proposal of the Ukrainian Mothers' Council to urgently consider Bill 6063-d and 6510 on the protection of children in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u167	Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u168	That's not a question. We have a lot of questions, by the way, that are reflected in the recommendations of parliamentary hearings that concern many young women, and especially many young women who are internally displaced. Indeed, there is a need to strengthen the State's protection of this category of socially vulnerable people. I think the Ukrainian Parliament has something to work with the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u169	And one last question. Please, Mrs. Handsome.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for your meaningful report. I'm going to repeat a little bit in my question about the displaced and the multi-child families. Can you specify which safety nets for these vulnerable categories of the Ukrainian population you are proposing to use in order to make them less vulnerable to the State’s assistance at last? Because today, unfortunately, they feel abandoned and feel inadequate support from the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u171	It's like I did. Thank you for asking, Mrs. Valeria. It's, as I've pointed out, giving some financial preferences to multi-child families, internally displaced persons. The second is equally important. Cancelling the orders, the Ministry of Education and Science's profile orders, which relate to granting children the right to join the 1st grade only for a certain number of documents at the place of registration. This is unacceptable, it violates the Constitution. And as far as I know, women who are internally displaced are often faced with this problem, which unfortunately cannot always be solved without corruption. Of course, it's socialization. Allowing these women to participate in the development of plans, plans for the development of local self - government and local communities. I think it's going to be the most effective. The additional measures that are envisaged for the executive branch are set out in the parliamentary recommendations. I want to show again and point out that we have that every national MP has got them. It's over 200 pages. This is the whole legal and regulatory framework that needs to be changed, which is what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u172	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u173	And who is directly responsible for this: where is the responsibility of Parliament, where is the government, and where are the authorities of local self-government. I hope that the executive authorities, regardless of our vote with you, can take these recommendations as a basis and work today. No one prevents anyone from working with them, even if they are not supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. You can go back to your workplace. Dear colleagues! I am asking to sign up for a draft resolution on recommendations of parliamentary hearings to prevent and combat discrimination against women from vulnerable social groups. Please. Yeah, from factions. I didn't add that there's now a recording of groups and factions. Please, Mrs. Cervakova, invite you to the show. Mrs. Cervakova, we invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I very much thank our colleagues from the Human Rights Committee, who are giving so much attention to this really, really relevant and socially important topic. Thank you, Mrs. Irina, for the meaningful report. But I would like to draw our colleagues' attention to what we talked about here literally last plenary week: about gender quotas in the election lists of political parties. Gender quotas are so-called positive discrimination. And I want to remind you that we've already made changes to the Local Elections Act, where it's meant that every political party list should have at least 30 percent of the members of the same sex. And this bill, this law has already been passed, has been greatly appreciated by our European partners. And I would like to draw attention to that, actually, next week, as Parliament Speaker Andri Parubay said, we're going to take a look at the Electoral Code. Yeah, there's actually 4,000 amendments, and, by our calculations, if we follow these amendments as well as the language law, it seems to be about six weeks. Maybe we'll actually accelerate because we don't really have that much time in Parliament. But I would very much like to encourage both parliamentarians and MPs to focus on what we still have in the Electoral Code to take into account this recommendation of our European partners, and to vote for gender quotas on party lists, and for party lists of political parties to have gender quotas. Because now we see how positive, how useful women do in Parliament of this calling. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mrs. Irina Souslowy. Thanks to our two professional interfractional associations for constantly drawing attention to this issue. And I hope it's not just a distraction, it's going to have concrete results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Olga. And welcome to Igor Shurma's word. He's going to come out of the place and represent the position of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u177	I'm asking you to give the floor to the very young mother of the Ukrainian Parliament of the Kingdom of Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u178	Please, Mrs. Natala.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u179	My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we don't see many men in this room today, but I think the most active are women parliamentarians who work in the Ukrainian Parliament. And that's why a hundred years ago, the Ukrainians chose the right to vote in elections, a hundred years ago we had the right to vote with men, and today the Ukrainian women are willing to take responsibility for this difficult year of electoral struggle to preserve the unity of the country, to protect people. And we fully support the initiatives on the UN Council, on the proposals of our European partners, on the examples of the most developed countries in the world that have long offered women the opportunity to be equally present throughout the world of power. And now we have the opportunity to make changes to electoral legislation and to take these proposals into account and allow Ukrainian women from all over the country to be present in the Ukrainian Parliament. But once again, I want to remind you that the first thing that a woman does is her mother. And what's most important today is to correct the mistakes that have been made in the last five years, when children, families with children, have taken almost all State support to single mothers; when the country realized that it was necessary to mobilize all efforts to create a strong army. But today we also realize that there were 100,000 children born a year less than five years ago, that unfortunately today, children who had lived five years had been born, lived there in war, received no amount of support from the State. Today we don't even have the right to renovate the roof budget over their heads, and you and I have the opportunity to fix this situation. So today, Mothers from all parts of our country gathered in the Council and held the Ukrainian Mothers’ Council. They have prepared and transmitted a letter to the President of Ukraine, where they have proposed a plan for a way out of this demographic crisis. They also registered a package of bills in Parliament. And I'm asking those faction leaders who are here, those women who are here: let's mobilize, we can now look at the Electoral Code, and we can protect and save hundreds and thousands of our children's lives. And this, I think, is much more important than anything else, because the future of Ukraine is the future of children. We will unite, protect the children of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u180	And the last performance of those factions that signed up. Please, Mrs. Zarzyrko, who represents the position of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u181	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, good morning, good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! Today, according to statistics in Ukraine, 60 percent of women, but in Parliament we see the lowest percentage in Europe: only 11 percent of parliamentarians in Ukraine today are women. Why such injustice? Why do women have such a small representation in the country’s highest legislative body? Why women are discriminated against, and not only here, they are discriminated against in the workplace, they discriminate against women who are internally displaced, more than one million of whom are displaced. These women are forced to play by other rules, not by the rules men play by. And we now have a world trend, which Ukraine must join as a state. And so I want to tell you that the support of the decision proposed by our interfractional women's union "Women." Peace. Security" (number 10266-1) is very important. It's because this is about a 30% quota in women's electoral lists. But it's not just about the quota in every five, I want to make a point, not on the list at all, but in every five, it's very important. And it's also very important that there will be a safety net because the parties won't meet this requirement. Because if they don't, these lists won't be registered. Thus, we can start radical changes in the Ukrainian Parliament. In particular, I want to thank the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk, and all of our factions of the Radical Party for their unanimous support for this decision, for these progressive changes that finally have a chance to take place here in the Ukrainian Parliament, because we all know that women are very responsible, women are prone to compromise, women are building such powerful teams with men, but not in the same proportion that they are now present in Parliament. And if we want changes for multi-child mothers, for pregnant women, if we want jobs everywhere, without discrimination for women, where they want to work, if we want to see conditions for women in the military, we have to start with these changes from the highest legislative body, including. Because if women have here in the Supreme Council, worthy of representation, we will have the changes that our civil society demands today, which require Ukrainian women, who are not just the foundation, the coast of Ukrainian society, who pay taxes here, who create jobs that are represented everywhere. Unfortunately, however, there is little representation in the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's change it together. Let's get to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u182	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u183	Let's get to the best of European practices, let's do a powerful state here in Ukraine, which will be joined by the best half of humanity, women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u184	Thank you. The factions are finished. It's nine minutes away from the National Deputies. Please record from the deputies. Women are invited to sign up actively. Jurik Taras Zinovovich is giving Barney a performance. Please. Can you turn on Barney's microphone, please? Come back here, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u185	I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u186	Get back!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u187	Dear Ukrainian people, honourable deputies! All Ukrainian men respect, respect, love, support our respectable womanhood, and give you the opportunity to participate, and you yourself take, without even asking, the activity of all authorities. May God help you and help you in all things — both in family life and at work and in career achievement. Please work for the benefit of families and Ukraine. But I see that soon the time will come for men to defend themselves, but this will be their personal matter. Together, we will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u188	Thank you. The word “Koshelieu ” is quoted in the footnote. Please, Kosheeva, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u189	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Ukraine's free symbol and power is a border woman. She cares for the family, she raises children, she gives life to new Ukrainians, she teaches, she heals, she protects, she earns money, and sometimes she fully provides for her family. What's the most painful thing? What she often encounters is discrimination on the ground, on the part of the State, low pensions, a lack of quality assistance for a woman during pregnancy and child care, treatment, access to social benefits, pain and retirement. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in Ukraine more than 60 percent of women, most of whom are socially active but completely vulnerable. Our goal and goal, as the priority of Oleg Láška's Radical Party, is to care for, support and involve women at every level, primarily at the level of nation-building. Therefore, the Radical Party, thanks to its leader, Oleg Lazko, is implementing and supporting women, including at the level of the nation’s expansion. This initiative, which has also been taken by a member of our Radical Party, Zaporko, which includes 30 percent of women in every five years, is a fine initiative and a start to women’s participation in state construction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u190	Thank you. Gulak Alexander Mikolaiovich gives the floor to Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I can't help it when it comes to our most beautiful Ukrainian women. I fully support Valérie Zarztko, who has very few Ukrainian women in Parliament. Today, by the way, the unique Parliament is that two women sit in the Presidium for the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. I very much hope that in the new Parliament three women will sit in the Presidency of the Ukrainian Parliament: both the Head and the Vice-Presidents of Parliament. Because respect for a Ukrainian woman begins with the realization of opportunities. The time passed when it was thought that a woman’s place was in the kitchen. Although I'll tell you for my Rosita that if she's cooking something for me in the kitchen, my place is next to her, because the way she's doing it, I just can't walk away. And I don't see any humiliation for the women themselves who have been promoted when they say that there's a woman in the kitchen. Not just in the kitchen. The main place of a woman is in the heart of a man. In my heart, she's completely engaged with these beautiful women and our team, and certainly my daughter Vladislav, and my wife, and my mother, and all the women I love. Because once a year we're reminded of Mom's Day, they call Mom, they say hello. And I advise all the men and children and the daughters to call every day, and the mothers and grandmothers, because unfortunately, the time will come when no one will call, and then they won't regret not finding the time, they won't come to my mom's, they won't call, they won't say, "Mom, how's your health? Do you need any medication? How are you feeling? How's your pressure?" I mean, we have to appreciate this relationship. And certainly, change state policy, stop hegemony, the influence of men when they think they're smarter than women. I've seen a lot of women who are smarter than men in my life, and that's why I think that Ukrainian women, and especially so many women in Ukrainian society, have a full right to implementation. In our beautiful Kiev, our beautiful country has as many pregnant women as possible on the streets. Because the more pregnant women, the happier and better the country. So that this young mother, who carries God’s gift to a child, can see the confidence of tomorrow so that this young family can live in a place where they can earn money and feed their child. Respect for a woman, love for a woman must go from words to deeds. And it's not just about the gender quotas on the electoral list. A change of mood in society should, because if there's no respect for a woman, love for a woman, if a woman is used solely to do, as one of my colleagues said, her natural function is to give birth to children, to have a child is not to perform a natural function, it's God's gift, it's happiness, it's great luck, and so honor and glory to our best women.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u192	Thank you. Lechenko Sergey Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u193	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, who fully agree that women in Ukraine are people who are disadvantaged. So much effort to make Ukraine a prosperous, prosperous country, but a woman in Ukrainian society is often in social relations under worse conditions than men. I even missed a part of the meeting this morning, and I was at a reception at the Vineyard, at the Gongadze Avenue. Mrs. Neela comes in, tells her complex story of life -- 81 years as she's worked her entire life, which tiny pension is 2,000 bucks. All of this is evidence that in Ukraine economic hardship, reforms are for slides only, and for offshore accounts to be filled by corrupters. But in doing so, we should not forget the role of women and that their status in Ukrainian political life should only be increased. There are requirements, recommendations from European partners to have 40 percent of women in Parliament. I am the author of a law that has long worked to. The law to prevent political corruption, so that 30 percent of the women are on the lists of the next elections that we are currently running. And this is a call for all parties to have at least 30 percent of women in the next parliament. To date, only 12 percent of us fill the Ukrainian Parliament with women. This is absolutely unacceptable for a modern European country, with our women in this calling being the best MPs. Irina Suslova works on human rights. Olga Cervakova is a freedom of speech. Our colleagues from the Radical Party are working to establish justice. Victoria Ptašnik – antitrust issues, Helen Babak deals with housing and utilities, Svetlana Zalščak deals with European integration, Olga Bielkova deals with energy issues. This is our gold fund, these are people who have spent their whole lives and five years reforming Ukraine. And of course, they all deserve to be represented in the new parliament in order to continue working. Oksana Jurinec, I forgot to mention a colleague of Jurinec who deals with matters of Euro-Atlantic integration. They are people who must be represented in the new parliament in order to continue those reforms and to have at least 20 percent of the women in the next parliament. But at the same time, we should not allow any corruption in the next election to power, because these people will be robbed again. By the way, there are world studies that indicate that women in politics are much less prone to corruption. They are more organized, and this is another call to all of us as political leaders, deputies in the next election to give women the opportunity to make Ukraine as much gender-balanced as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u194	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to report that I'm continuing my session for five minutes, two more speeches. One is from the people's deputies. Kocheyeva's handing it to Spiowakovsky. Then Irina Heratchenko. And that's where we end the discussion. It'll just be five minutes. Please, Mr. Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u195	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Well, first of all, I'd like to thank my colleague, Mrs. Koschelev, for the opportunity to speak. You know, 42 years ago, back in Soviet times, I heard a lecture from a famous physiologist named Rem Lukatsky, who was reading this lecture to me. A physiologist. But he said the fantastic thing that I had remembered my whole life. He said, "You know, a woman is a man, and a man is a half-human." Well, we were surprised. Why? Because a woman can give the world a man, and her husband can only help her, but with great love for our women. And now, seriously, I want to say that it's very right when the Supreme Council of Ukraine is actually looking at how to build a safe environment. It's a security structure element, it's a comfort structure element. Because we have to protect rights and level up. If we had a balance between men and women not only in school, not just in power, but everywhere, I don't think Ukraine would have the problems we have. And that's why it's so strange to see a woman's face in school, and it's amazing to see a man's face in power. And that's why it's our job to adopt appropriate laws to ensure this equality. It's perfectly normal. We do not violate family values or anything else. We're making our country safe. It's a security issue. I honestly want to tell you that if, maybe, Ukraine had adopted this legislation earlier, maybe we wouldn't have the problems we have today. And look at this room. It's not a claim, it's just when we share power or share some raw resources -- everything, the hall is full. When we talk about education, about science, about intellectual property, about women, about human rights, unfortunately, there aren't many people's deputies. Dear colleagues, I will definitely vote in favour of this decree. But, dear fellows, you can't do that. Let's do it again. This is a problem of the moral responsibility of us people's deputies for what we are doing now under the dome of the Supreme Council. And I want women to want us to adopt legislation as quickly as possible, and the bill that Maria Ionov represented on the Conciliation Council, so that we can at least begin the process of alignment and the corresponding balance of creation in our power. We'll vote. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u196	Thank you. And a closing statement. First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I really want to thank Mrs. Souslowy for her thorough report and to draw the attention of the audience here, that during the discussion it still occurred to, you know, discussions about the traditional so-called roles of a woman, although a woman, like a man, herself, has the full right to choose her own traditional role in life. In fact, the topic of the report concerns a very important problem — discrimination, discrimination against vulnerable women. But discrimination in general in Ukrainian realities goes hand in hand with the life of almost every woman in which she does not work, whether she is in the traditional role of a housewife. Where does the root of discrimination come from? It comes primarily from what is now happening in this session hall, when even during the discussion these traditional roles, traditional words, what a woman should do and what she should not do. You know, a huge disgrace to this Parliament, including speaking here, that in five years you haven't found opportunities because of your stereotypes, because of the wolf in your head, excuse me for saying, accept, ratify the Istanbul Convention. Because in fact, tens of countries today have accepted it, including traditionally Orthodox countries such as Georgia, just to protect a woman from domestic violence. And I would very much like the next Parliament to fulfill this obligation to Ukrainian society. The other one. It is absolutely right that this is rude when women make up less than 12 percent in the Ukrainian Parliament and government. And that's why, really, it's very bad that, despite all the efforts of the IFF, "Equal Opportunities" that all these years have been fighting sexism, with discrimination, with disrespect for Ukrainian women, with gender stereotypes, we haven't adopted an extremely important law on quotas, and it's not about women, and it's about the same sex, it's probably men who are really going to be on party lists. So in this context, we urge that perhaps tomorrow, one of the first laws, this bill, while the electoral campaign is just about to start, that the political parties -- this is the IFF "Equal Opportunities" drafted by the 1,427 bill -- adopt a quota, and there are at least 30 percent of people of the same sex on each list, or that the political leaders voluntarily assume this commitment, and likewise, especially important, support the promotion of women in major districts. Because it's getting more complicated. In major districts, there is an administrative resource, a financial resource to which, unfortunately, Ukrainian women have much less, as one of the speakers rightly pointed out, access than Ukrainian politicians. And it's actually the face.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u198	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u199	The face of the next Supreme Council will determine how ready we are to be Europeans, the presence of women. And the last. I particularly want to celebrate the high role of Ukrainian women in peace processes. It's a female soldier, and it's a woman's participation in the peace talks, and it's also a high level of activity for moms, the wives of our Ukrainian hostages and the political prisoners in the struggle for the liberation of their loved ones. Thank you, Ukrainian women! And we will always protect your right to equality.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u200	Thank you. Colleagues, we are now formally voting. And we will know that this decision is already being said, and we will be able to consider it without discussion. So I'm voting on the draft Decree 9408. Please be supportive. [[14:07:37]] Z-62
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-29-m0.u201	The decision is not taken. I won't give it to the factions, I won't. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I think we've had a very good and important discussion. We also received the report of the Court of Auditors today. Tomorrow, colleagues, I call for maximum mobilization. We'll be able to look at the government report tomorrow. And tomorrow I expect the commission of the committee to review the TSC Act to be carried out and the committee to take a decision. We will be able to move on to the consideration of the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. So tomorrow I ask everyone to be disciplined for 10 a.m. in Parliament to continue our work. And now I wish everyone good work on the committees. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
