ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, check in, and take up jobs. Colleagues, please take up your jobs. Prepare for the festivities. Come into the hall. Are you ready for your registration? National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system, please log in. [[10:03:23]] 356 national deputies registered. Honorary colleagues and guests of the Supreme Council, welcome to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groissman and the members of the Government; the leaders of the central executive bodies; the leaders of the judicial branch of power; the officials elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appoints and agrees to serve; representatives of public organizations and media; heads of diplomatic representations from foreign states, other officials. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies and Visitors of the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u3	The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished guests, invited, respected members of the government! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u5	Dear friends, we are launching the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, and we are facing a number of challenges: to protect the irreversibility of Ukraine's European choice, to consolidate the Ukrainian state's movement into NATO and the EU in the Constitution, to continue strengthening national security, to protect information space and to establish Ukrainian language. Our session will be held in very difficult conditions, as in the end, and all sessions, we have to adopt laws and conduct active legislative activities during Russian aggression. But during this session, there will be another test: during the session, the election of the President of Ukraine will take place. And there is no doubt that the election campaign will be emotionally felt throughout the country, and obviously many will try to make the Supreme Council a field for the election campaign. And I, my colleagues, want to point out that in the years of the most difficult trials, the Supreme Council was actually the island of stability that allowed the country to emerge from any crisis and from any political opposition. I am convinced that in this session too, Ukrainian national MPs should show a high level of responsibility before the moment Ukraine is facing today. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I felt the electoral campaign literally hate the debate between the people’s deputies. And I want to warn everyone that hatred, trying to tear the country apart all the time was a deadly weapon against the Ukrainian state. Last year we celebrated a century of nation-building. I want to remind you of another date. Yesterday was exactly 100 years ago when, under pressure from the Bolsheviks, the Ukrainian government was forced to leave Kiev and Ukrainian troops were forced to leave Kiev. And no doubt one of the most important reasons is that politicians have torn the country apart during the greatest trials. We must demonstrate responsibility and we must ensure the stability of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. And, colleagues, I would like to inform everyone that I am confident that the Hall will agree with me when I see as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that during the discussion of the laws someone is not discussing the law, but leading the electoral campaign, I will rule out the microphone. And I'm sure the hall will agree with me and support me. I will not allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to become a platform for electoral campaigns, especially given the enormous responsibility we have at this session. I want to define the main priorities that I define as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of course, priority number one is national security and defense, during Russian aggression, those are the issues that have to unite the entire room. And it's no wonder that our first week of session is actually starting with a cluster of issues of national security and defence. I would like to point out that one of the safety laws that we have to adopt in this session is the Ukrainian Language Act. Language is our powerful weapon against Russia. [[Applause]] And the natural right to free possession of this weapon is vested in every Ukrainian citizen. We will give this right the power of the law. So I would like to move to the next plenary week, when the work and committee and the Supreme Council's apparatus are finished, to the language law. Many amendments, over two thousand, nearly two and a half. But I am sure that this is our responsibility and responsibility, and we are obliged to accept the Law on Speech. Next. I consider it a priority to ensure Ukraine's irreversibility towards membership in NATO and the European Union. It is our closest cooperation to implementing all of the Alliance's standards, achieving full compatibility and the next acquisition of NATO and EU membership that guarantees Ukraine's sovereignty and security and our future. I want to tell you that yesterday, in Ukraine and today, the Head of the Constitutional Court was present, and here in the Hall, who said that when in Lithuania there was a vote on the introduction of the Constitution to the EU and NATO, those MPs who did not vote, then for years they would explain to their voters why they did not take part in this vote. This question is not going to be the day after tomorrow, on Thursday, and I hope that the entire room, all the Ukrainian and European forces unanimously support this decision. 300 votes is a big challenge, but in this vote we have to forget about political opposition, and every Ukrainian patriot, everyone who cares about the security of the state, has to be in the room and have a say in the vote. This will be the first draft of a law that is proposed on Thursday to be put to the vote. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that we have before us the great task of a whole block of laws necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU. They're from different backgrounds and different committees preparing them, but this is the plan that was jointly agreed by the working group, the committee of the Ukrainian Parliament, and the government that we have to go to in this session. The next is a block of economic laws that has also been developed by Parliament together with our ministers. And I want to thank the government officials for their active cooperation and for their active work and to thank Prime Minister Grimesman. And I'm sure that common block will be able to go through this session despite political discussions. Also, colleagues, we need to complete the decommunization. We have taken an important step in changing the Constitution to change the Kropitnivna region. We now have to take the same step in changing the name of the Dnipropetrov region. And the day after tomorrow, this Thursday, I'm going to suggest that we take the first step and send our joint decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court to rename the Dnipropetrov region. And finally, colleagues, a lot of people are asking about the Electoral Codex. I want to confirm my unchangeable conviction that we must pass the Electoral Code, regardless of how extensive and important this document is. I'm in constant communication with both the committee and the working group, and as soon as there's a responsible committee decision, I'm going to suggest that I go to the Electoral Code as soon as possible. Another task, the colleagues standing before us, is the laws on reforming parliament. Much has been done by us, and much has been done to make the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine more effective. But there are two other laws that are adopted in the first reading and that, I'm sure, in this session we have to adopt as laws. This is the list of key proposals I make as Head of the Supreme Council. But this list demonstrates the great task ahead of us. And despite the fact that I stress once again, the election and the presidential campaign, I call on everyone to be responsible and to understand that we have historical decisions before us, and it is up to each of us to how effectively we can work during this session. We're reminded of all the previous sessions, we're reminded of the voices of the skeptics who said that Parliament would not work. But every session, despite the critics, every faction, every national MP has demonstrated that the interests of Ukraine and the tasks we face are ready to break any skepticism. I'm sure that's what's going to happen in this session, everyone will have a high level of responsibility and a high level of understanding of what historic time we live in and what historical decisions are before us. I am sure that we will continue to work with the Ukrainian government as effectively as possible. And I am sure that both the Prime Minister and the government officials, as in previous sessions, will shoulder the challenge of reform. I am sure that we will work together with the President of Ukraine during this session, as in previous years of difficult trials. And, colleagues, I'm sure we can go through all the problems and all the plans that the Ukrainian state faces. So I want fruitful work for all, I want all the spirit and inspiration. I am convinced that a stable Ukrainian Parliament is a stable, strong Ukrainian state, and that is what the entire Ukrainian people expect of us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, let me thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for having outlined the key tasks of the session that began today. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u7	The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vladimir BorisovichGroysman, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u8	Mr. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, welcome you to the start of the new session, which means that we will begin with new opportunities. First of all, I want to thank you for the end of the year, for the last session, for the important and necessary decisions that allowed us to change the situation in the country in the best way. This is the coming session of this office. And I think we'll still have the opportunity to sum up what was done, but it's quite obvious that the 14th year was one of the most crucial to our state. We got a weak economy, a virtually destroyed, empty treasury account, a broken government system and many spheres, and started to change it. Only thanks to the Consolidation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government, have we been able to make the necessary decisions, which have become the foundation of the new Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that the decisions we made were necessary for the country to change. Moreover, we made decisions to solve the chronic problems that needed to be solved 10 or 20 years ago. 2019 is unforgivable, including in view of two campaigns: the Presidential and the Parliamentary. I understand that these campaigns will have an impact on the work and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I want to say that elections are elections, but the country's life needs daily decisions, effective decisions and a consolidated position of power, because we serve not political ratings, but we serve our country and the Ukrainian people. We have identified a number of priorities that we have in common with the Ukrainian Parliament, and today the Head of the Supreme Council has outlined them. It's a matter of security and defence, it's a matter of national economic development, we need to consolidate and continue the process of decentralization of the country. And the main thing is that what the national economy does, we have to reinvest in human capital. And any change will be impossible without the support of the Ukrainian Parliament. So I believe that in the 19th year we will be able to put the interests of the state above any political interests of any political person. Because the interests of the state must always be higher for every patriot in Ukraine. And that is why I am deeply convinced that we will still be able to take a number of possible steps to correct the statement that Parliament is not working in the electoral year. It was this Ukrainian Parliament that made responsible and necessary decisions at very difficult times. This week is also very important in view of the fundamental decisions of our vector of development. Our future and present are in the European Union and in the great Euro - Atlantic family. And I am deeply convinced that on Thursday, Parliament is consolidating to accept changes to the Constitution, which will be historic and decisive to our state. In turn, the Ukrainian government and I, as Prime Minister myself, will make every effort to make the 19th year a year of growth, a year of stability and success in areas that are important for the lives of our citizens. I want to thank you again, Mr. Head, personally. I want to thank the deputies and wish us success. I'm deeply convinced that we've come out of the gap, and we can't give anyone the right to bring us back to the chasm and lose the opportunities that are once again opening up in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u9	Heroic glory! Thank you, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you to the members of the government. Thank you to all who participated in the opening of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And, honourable colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of MP factions and groups with proposals, announcements, reports. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to record the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, let's get this show started. And I'd like to invite you to welcome Victor Bondar's team leader. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Our MP's "Rebirth Party" group is still proposing to review the agenda for this week and take a larger approach to the issue of the Supreme Council's activities and to what should be a key challenge for this electoral period. We understand that the pre-election marathon is about to begin, and most of the presidential candidates have promised to do a lot of things in recent years, and first and foremost to carry out the very expected political reforms. Therefore, we demand that we change the agenda, remove any minor issues that make no difference in the country at all, and put several fundamental issues to the vote, together with a vote on the amendments to the Constitution on accession to the EU and NATO. The first question is the consideration of the Anti-Fraud Regulation, which was introduced in the autumn of last year, the review of these tariffs and the conduct of energy audits. Under this decree, seven leaders of factions who are present in Parliament today signed the decree. If we jointly stop this situation, if we co-exist and we stop voting and we don't even vote in favour of amendments to the Constitution, then this question will be put in the House, voted, and then we can vote on the amendments to the Constitution. And then we can really solve people's issues, cancel these robbing tariffs and make an energy audit in Ukraine, overcome corruption in the gas and oil fields. The other one. Many promises were made by candidates, factions, and parties present in parliament regarding political change. Today, there is a real opportunity for these things to be carried out. Before the election, you have to show the faces of every party, every faction present here. We therefore put to the vote at the same time as amendments to the Constitution to laws that amend and abolish the parliamentary integrity that introduce the President's impeachment procedure, which fully review the election system in Ukraine. There is an opportunity to vote on the Electoral Code, change, and move on to the election process through open lists when people know who they vote for, choose the most worthy, choose the most influential and famous people in Ukraine. And then there won't be a bad story when in Greek, as many are told here, they buy voters, and then they're wondering why Parliament is the kind that is here today in our room. At the same time, you can conduct all these questions through the Supreme Council of Ukraine and start them on Thursday. And the last. You can start a procedure for changes to the Constitution and reduce the number of parliaments to 250. So I propose that all these questions be put to the vote, and that the people of Ukraine finally see who will really support them, what candidates for the Presidents really support these things, and what factions do they vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, from the Self-Help faction to the word, the National MP, Markevich, is invited. Please. Excuse me, please. People's deputy tooth. I'm sorry, mate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u13	When the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council spoke, they spoke of elections as a certain danger to the country. I think it's the other way around. I think elections are an opportunity, an opportunity to change this power, which is today, and to choose decent and professional people. In general, democracy is primarily a choice. This right has been fought for centuries, millions have died, mentioning at least the fields. What is happening in Ukraine? We now have a presidential electoral campaign that's on the move. The President of Ukraine, who was to be the guarantor of the Constitution, guaranteed the rights and freedoms of citizens, including the right to choose, fully incorporated the administrative resource. Election headquarters are actually created on the basis of district and district government administrations. A network of voters has been launched. And cynicism is that this is done under the responsibility of collecting signatures in support of the EU and NATO. I am no longer referring to the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is attending a ceremony from the President's nomination and is conducting an illegal campaign. Disgusting. But with regard to the right to choose, it's only one side of the medal. This is a violation of the law. And there are situations where people are essentially deprived of their right to choose. I'm talking about out-of-court elections in local communities. Recently, two years have passed since the death of the city’s head, Lucca Mikoli Romanyuk. There are some 200 other communities in Ukraine where there is no legitimate authority. In a normal civilized country, elections should be made automatically. The Supreme Council ignores that. This is not seen by the President of Ukraine, who during the electoral campaign took up the topic of decentralization on his shield. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, who considers himself to be the father of decentralization, does not see this, but is actually a stepfather who has long forgotten about his child. We believe that this is a matter for immediate action. Our seniors like to talk about the success of decentralization. Yes, these successes are. But these are successes thanks to those who work in communities and show a new quality of governance, as do Andrew Sadowy in Lviv, as do the measures of many other cities in Ukraine. But what depends on central authority is, unfortunately, openly ignored. So the Self-Help faction is demanding right now, today to bring up the question of the appointment of out-of-order elections not only in rural communities, but in urban communities, and to resolve this issue. If we are a European country and we want to be not only geographically but also de jure part of the European community, we simply have no right to disregard this constitutional right of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u14	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u15	We have no right to disregard the constitutional right of citizens to choose the authority they deserve. And I am convinced that both communities and the people of Ukraine deserve much more professional authority than there is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u16	Please welcome the Opposition Block. Vadim Novinski? Mikhailo Skorik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u17	People's MP Skork, Opposition Platform for Life. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! At the beginning of the new session, the last session of this call, I would like to say the following. In fact, I agree with the leaders and the government, and Parliament that 2019 is very important to our nation, a crucial year for our state. The turning point is that we have to get a new President and a new Parliament this year, which will really enable the country to return to the path of peace, development and stability. Instead, we see absolutely games in the election in the Supreme Council Hall. We see an attempt to distract society, distract the Ukrainian people from the real problems of our nation. And what the authorities are going to be trying to vote on this week's constitutional change in the EU and joining NATO is an absolute distraction, once again, from the real problems of the state. No country that has since joined the EU and joined NATO has recorded such things in the Constitution. The EU and NATO are completely different organisations and we understand that they need to be treated in completely different ways. If the EU has made it clear that we are not expected to be there today, and we see some serious problems in the European Union thanks to Brexit in other processes, we see problems in our relationship in terms of the conditions that we have with the area of free trade between Ukraine and the EU, these problems need to be resolved, not written down in the Constitution. As far as NATO is concerned, our political force "The Opposition Platform for Life" believes that this must be done solely on the basis of a people's perspective. We need to ask the people, make a referendum on this subject, including all the territories that are unfortunately not under our control today. What should we do in reality? In reality, we need to bring peace back to the state because no entry, including NATO, is possible in a country that has military conflicts and territorial disputes. And we need to solve the problems of tariffs and poverty. National Deputy Boyko as leader of the Opposition Platform for Life with a group of national deputies from the Opposition Platform for Life (Kingdom, Rabinovich) registered Bill 9527, which provides for the write-off of municipal payments. Today, the total debt for municipal payments in the country is approaching 50 billion. We understand. And it grew by almost 30 billion a year. We understand that citizens cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u18	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u19	We realize that citizens cannot solve this issue alone. And we urge our colleagues to put this bill into the hall and vote it back in this call. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u20	Please welcome the head of the MaksimBurbak People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u21	Congratulations, fellows! The People's Front has consistently advocated the establishment of an EU and NATO membership course in the Constitution. We're asking them to vote this week. This is the realization of the will of the Ukrainian people, and most Ukrainians support the accession to NATO. The Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine is a non-alternative, irreversible course launched by Prime Minister Arsenij Yatsenuk in 2014. In addition to amending the Constitution, we are initiating an official appeal by the Supreme Council to NATO to provide Ukraine with a plan of action for membership in the alliance or other legally binding acceleration mechanism. Today, we're going to register a draft of an appropriate decision. In 2008, Arsenij Yatsenuk, as speaker of our Parliament, signed a petition to NATO about the VAT along with the President and the Prime Minister, then the "regionals" blocked Parliament. Ten years from now, we have to give green light to the plan of action for NATO membership, and Ukraine will be a NATO member. Obviously, it is not only Ukraine that needs help, but NATO itself needs reinforcements. The strength of this alliance in collective security is the support of the free world, Ukraine needs a graph of Euro-Atlantic integration. Today, Parliament and Kabin are working hard to implement a reform plan for the association and the free trade zone with the EU. In record terms, the government of Arsenija Yatsenyuk has implemented a plan of action for carlessness – this is how the government is supposed to work. Similarly, we plan to implement a plan of action for NATO membership. Now to the most important topic: the protection of elections from Moscow intervention. The Kremlin's representatives directly say what kind of authority they want: the authorities of the traitors of the icolaborants, they say, will end the so - called civil war on Donbassa. Such politicians could come to power only as a result of massive falsifications and an even more intense information war. But the People's Front will oppose the enemy's influence on the election. We call on the Ukrainian Security Service to be more effective in defending the electoral process. We see concrete preparations for Russia's intervention, all independent activists see it, the IMF sees it -- we have to react. And the fifth column. The People's Front is outraged by the arrest of Zacharychenka's assets in Ukraine. I remind you, this is Minister Yanukovich, who handed out the Kalashnikov vending machine to his aunts, was in contact with them, these Tetuhani are directly involved in the murder, at least two people: Viachaslava Veremia and Yuri Verbickýk I'm talking about the facts already proven. And there's a murder investigation that's still ongoing right now in Maidan. Zharchenkoza right now in Moscow writes books about how he spent his life fighting for Ukraine’s accession to the great Russia. Where will the unblocked assets of Zacharychenka go, for what purposes? The People's Front calls for charges against the court and the re-arrest of all Zacharychenk's assets. Parliament is obliged to monitor the protection against hybrid aggression, too in conditions of pre-election instability. We demand that a temporary commission of inquiry be established to investigate the facts of the Russian and Ukrainian elections. Can I have 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u22	Please finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u23	I call on all my colleagues, faction leaders, the leaders of the MPs to submit their nominations to this TSC. Don't be afraid to fight the enemies of Ukraine, it'll be much scarier when we get the election under the Kremlin scenario. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Maxime. And the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u25	It is a pity that the government left immediately after the opening of the session. I wish they could see the problems that people are living in. The resident of Vystráda Golub Ludmila Vasilovna, a former engineer with a pension of 1,000, 800 dollars, received a utility fee of 4.5 thousand dollars, she had no subsidies, social benefits as a widow of a dead black man. Without help, she would have paid 4.5, so she would have to pay 4,000, receiving less than 2,000 pensions. Disabled and group Dolin Valentina Alexiyevna, resident of Vishgrad, apartment 53 square meters. I got a $4,500 bill, I got a nigger widow, I got $400 of social benefits, I don't have a grant. A pension of 3,000 dollars is to pay 4,000 dollars for gas. Yesterday, I was in the Krivrozi district of Dnipropetrovska, and I drove Natalia Petrovna to the village of Lozovatka. She's got a pension of 1 thousand 770 dollars, and she's driving to pay for the 100 cubes of gas that she used above the standard, 855 dollars. For a hundred cubes of gas, 855 dollars is to be paid, receiving a pension of 1 thousand 770 dollars. Resident of the village of Snovsky district of Chernigiv district, former teacher Ludmila Seminowna, has a pension of 2,000 thousand 600 dollars, she paid 1,000 900 dollars for the utility station, that's according to the subsidy. If there was no subsidy, she would have paid 4.5 thousand dollars. In Natalia Petrovna, I emphasize, the house is built 70 square meters away. The residents of Vyshgrad have Ludmila Vasilovna and the Valley Valentina Alexiyevna apartments of 50 square meters are not choirs, they're not possessions, they're not thousands of square meters for which they have to pay space tariffs. This is the most important question today. Grabbing people, they put out payments that people can't pay, they pay the last. And it's not enough because there's not enough pensions or wages. Natalia Petrovna of Lozovka said that the subsidy paid off because the son who works in Bloody Rose was forced to leave the house and otherwise there would be no subsidy. And even when a subsidy is granted, he still has almost all his pension to pay for burning 70 square feet [70 sq m] of the house. When will this robbery stop? Where can people get money? I am addressing you, members of the coalition, to President Prashenko, who says he's not responsible for anything, to the government: where can people get money to pay your space payments? Our faction is blocking the parliamentary rostrum. We're not going to vote for any law, we're not going to let a parliamentary rostrum work until a decision is made that we registered a few months ago: a reduction in gas prices, a departure from the Naftogazu leadership, a fair price for gas, a return of the subsidy order, so that everyone can pay for that utility to get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u26	Thank you. Please come to the floor. 30 more seconds? Please, ma'am. The head of the "Fatherland" faction, Julia Timoshenko, is invited to attend. They'll come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I just want to go on with what I just said to Oleg Valeriyovich, and just look at how the Parliament is being used. We're done speaking to the Chief of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, look at the empty beds, look at the right-hand side of the force where? And why open the Supreme Council like that, a session? Look at the hall: there's a maximum of 50 people sitting here, maybe counting. My dear friends, I would like to say that no one in this room, except those who sit here, is in the halls, and including the President of Ukraine, there is no one at all who cares, except for the piano, about any element of life. And I can tell you that such a disaster, such a disaster, such chaos as today, the country has not seen. And second of all, look what drafts they've ruled out of the agenda, they don't include. It's very simple: all the factions, except those who are in control, have registered a bill amending the Government's Gas Price Reduction Order -- not included; the bill to stop earth-based fraud -- is not included; the interim commission of inquiry to deal with the corruption of Naftogazu NAC on human tariffs is not included! So in this room in the last two months, there's going to be lobbyist drafts on black privatization, on "washing" and on "removing" from the budget. The budget has already set aside 2 billion dollars for the Idustenka family to bribe people for the elections because that is how this Parliament works. And, dear friends, what applies to tariffs is unprecedented at all. I want to go to all the people right now and just say that the members of the commission that sets the tariffs are forming the President by its decree, he has a personal responsibility for all the tariffs that are destroying people today. And he plans after the presidential election, if he stays, to raise 15 percent of the gas price from May 1st and then by the end of the year by 25. It's just the extermination of the Ukrainian nation. And including today, he allowed the export of Ukrainian gas. Making billions of dollars in Ukrainian gas abroad! And here's his declaration, Dust: 83 times in a year, his incomes on the mountain and people's losses have increased. And in addition, he earned part of that money for giving up his money to Ukraine during the war. We don't have a president, we have a corrupter, and we have a man who destroys the Ukrainian state with patriotic slogans. [[B in m in s a l in]] Either we stop this election or we don't have to complain!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u28	Please welcome me from the People's Will Group, National MPLabazük. The only thing I'd like to do is go to colleagues who are on the rostrum, well, there's an element of insincerity to colleagues. You had the opportunity, Your Honor, to speak from the rostrum, and your colleagues have the same right to contact the electorate from the rostrum. I think there's a huge element of insincerity and show and show. I think that's what everyone sees, including voters. Please, Mr. Sergei. And I apologize for the fact that our colleagues treat themselves more equally than others. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u29	Dear Lady Chairman, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainian people! In fact, yesterday's Conciliation Council was a eloquent example of most politicians in the presidential race. And today in this session room, we see it again. And that's not surprising, because the 89 candidates who applied to the CIA to be presidential candidates, most of them today have questions not only with the average citizen, but also with politicians: who are these people, and what are they going to do if they were elected? Presidential racing is not really a toy. We understand that we are choosing the Commander-in-Chief of our country, the person who guarantees the Constitution, and, above all, the person who can balance the work of all branches of power today. Gentlemen, the recent data of the State is causing serious concern, because we see that although there is a massive subsidy of our state and the monetaryization that is being carried out today -- a subsidy -- the Cabinet of Ministers, that is far from enough. And the amount of debt for gas has increased by more than 8 billion dollars in December compared to the previous period. These numbers are terrifying, and this is just the first wave of gas price rise, and we know that in 2019 there is still going to be a double increase in gas price. So people can't physically pay these crazy payments that we've already talked about today. So the MPs call for the Cabinet of Ministers to report to us on Friday on "the hour of the government" and bring us information, to the national MPs, on what account and how they're going to solve this problem, because today we see not just the concern of society, but the cry of the soul. Colleagues, let's work for the future, not go into the pre-election races that block jobs for a year in our country. We need to understand that we do not have a return, and today people who need to solve the many problems that have accumulated in our country should not be held hostage to situations. And we understand that one of the reforms that is successful in the country is the reform of decentralization, and we are also required to complete decisions on the subject today. And I'm going to tell you that we have a large number of bills that are in suspension today, namely: No. 8369 – on the service of local self-government, No. 7467 – on the simplification of voluntary community reunification, No. 7447 – on the improvement of the regional development financing mechanism and 4091 – on the election of old age. And this is not a complete list of bills that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u30	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u31	which should be considered in this session and decided that by 2020 we should complete the process of decentralization and be able to successfully develop regions in places. And I am confident that today, however, politicians will hear the call of their electorate, citizens, and productive work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Irina Lucenko will be speaking from Peter Dustenka's Block. Once again, I want to contact my colleagues in the rostrum asking for equal opportunities for all factions. Dear colleagues in the rostrum, I ask you to allow me to speak from the rostrum. I want to draw the attention of all the colleagues in the room that we have double standards showing up to different groups and factions. Please, Mrs. Irina, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u33	Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! This week, we will finally vote on the excessive changes to the Constitution on the establishment of a course towards the EU and NATO, the course set by Euromeidain, the course of President Peter Prashenko's return to Europe towards "get away from Moscow". This historic decision will determine the civilizational vector of our nation's development. By this vote, we will have to choose decisively and irreversibly: either freedom or the Russian colony. As a reminder, on the day that the trial in Kiev sentenced the Kremlin’s leader, hundreds of thousands of people went out to the capital city of Venezuela, protesting against the other Kremlin - Maduro. In the world’s largest oil reserves, hyperinflation, unreachable products, medicines, fuels, and more than five million Venezuelans have already left the country in search of rescue. Even worse is the situation in Syria, where another friend of Putin, the bloodthirsty tyrant Bashar Assad, has killed some four hundred thousand people, ten million have become refugees, and cities are in ruins. The list can be continued, but the point is clear: Everything that is touched by Putin’s hand is transformed into a humanitarian disaster zone. And that's what the populists are pushing for, and they're offering to listen to what Putin wants, to sign a fast one, on his terms, peace, which means dismembering the country, to conclude a unique gas deal with him, and how a real colonel will destroy the army. The price of this choice is to deny Ukrainian interests, dignity, history, European values, and to lose independence. Therefore, it is our responsibility, the national deputies representing the interests of the Ukrainian people, to emphasize the Ukrainian people's choice in the Constitution to join NATO and to return to Europe. Let me remind you of President Peter Prashenko's words: "Membership in NATO is security, it's security on the outside, it's the restoration of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of our nation through a political and diplomatic path." And for an ordinary citizen, that includes security on the streets of their hometowns. I'm not talking about the dozens of other issues that need to be considered today, I'm not talking about elections, because elections will only take place when we save Ukraine. The Celestial 100 heroes, military and volunteers, volunteers and patriots of Ukraine, have already made their choice. And we've already been able to get rid of the Kremlin's toxic influence because of the resurgence of the army, the language, the faith. We know what we're fighting for: for free, independent, European Ukraine. We're going our own way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u34	Thank you. Dear colleagues, statements from several factions have come to the fore for recess but are ready to be replaced. First of all, please give the floor to the representative of the Opposition Block of the People's Deputy of Vilukulu. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u35	Dear people of Ukraine, 2019 has only just begun, but as in the previous three years, Ukrainian enterprises have almost exhausted all quotas for duty-free deliveries to the EU of their own products. You can continue to set, but the duty to be paid is such an additional tax on the EU budget, making Ukrainian production uncompetitive in European markets. One where Ukraine, unfortunately, is a cheap labor force in leaders, people who have to work abroad to feed their families. We have to change the situation in principle. Do I feel that we should develop a trade relationship with the European market? Yes, I do. But it must be done on mutually beneficial terms, pragmaticly defending one’s own Ukrainian interests. I therefore believe that the economic part of the Agreement with the European Union should be reviewed immediately at the negotiating table. As part of our new industrialization strategy, we have developed measures to increase exports so that new enterprises can be built inside the country, jobs can be created, wages and pensions can actually rise. But again their authorities do not even include them in the order of the day of this session. Common sense is finally to be the foundation of Ukrainian foreign policy. After winning, we'll do it in the shortest terms. We need a new external economic policy built on the support and protection of a domestic producer. It should contribute to economic growth in us, not in Poland, Turkey or China. The other one. Ukraine needs to be driven out of impact and external power management. Stop working as a buffer between the West and Russia. This brings no benefits to the state, to society, to man, to the economy. The only way out is to declare a neutral non-block status, such as Austria, Sweden or Finland. Only by taking this strategic step will we be able to restore stability in the country, channel national resources for development, for industrial growth, and for social programs. And this decision needs to be made in an all-U.S. referendum, not by trying to bring about changes to the Constitution on the NATO course. I am confident that non-block status will compromise the UN Security Council to adopt a joint resolution for the introduction of peacekeepers, a temporary international administration under the auspices of the United Nations, and to forget war as a terrible dream. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u36	Thank you. And please, now, this is also the statement made by two MPs and factions, and the word is given to the national deputy, Volodymyr Lithuania. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u37	Honorable national MPs, when appreciating the current reformation of the Ukrainian authorities, this reformation resembles the exodus of blood from the people. And other actions, they essentially interfere with crime. Let me give you a eloquent example. For three years, the Ponkin paper combine has poisoned the environment, such as the Homors and the Svet. Three years! The appeal to the President, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not usually result in any of these writings. I have repeatedly addressed this subject and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The respective tasks are directed to the central authorities of the executive branch, and they are not responding at all. And I'm going to remind you that one river of the West is a half a thousand kilometers away, that's 13,000 square meters of territory. People were taking care of the Cabinet of Ministers, covering the Kiev-Chop route, making other promises to figure it out, but instead they're issuing a license to continue this factory. The truth was that before the pipe was a few meters above the river, it was hidden under the water, and they thought they had solved the problem. I demand that, on behalf of the people, the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs finally complete the investigation of this issue. How many more years do you need? Three years later, some promises have passed. Otherwise, it is likely that people should be invited to refuse to participate in the elections. Please tell me, what is the solution? I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to consider my address to the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, to finally stop this factory, otherwise there is no room for people to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u38	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're done speaking from factions, and we can move on to the order of the day. So, colleagues, I would like to inform you that an apparatus has prepared a draft order for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, as suggested by the committees. At present, the project contains 2,000,822 issues, which include almost 3,000 draft laws, codes, and decrees of the Supreme Council. Sadly, however, six committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have not yet approved proposals for the agenda at their meetings. And they were asked to give them the opportunity to approve proposals at their meetings on Wednesday at a scheduled committee meeting and today to vote on the weekly agenda. And I want to go to all the factions who haven't made their bids in the daytime, to submit them by Wednesday. You've all been given a day-to-day schedule for this session. In order for us to have no discussion in the room, I ask all the heads of factions to see which bills they think should be added, and in writing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, however, it is suggested that the weekly agenda be approved and that this week’s work be formed. I would like to point out that we have this week and a block of national security and defence laws, and also, colleagues, this week we have a two-pronged bill amending the Constitution following Ukraine's accession to NATO and the EU. You know that the laws of the second reading and the regulations can be considered without the inclusion of the day session. So now I'm going to propose to go to the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissioners (9285), this is the second reading. And then we're going to establish the weekly order of the day. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And I am announcing the move to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissions (No. 9285). And I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Ivan Yuliyovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u39	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I see that the electoral process has begun, the rostrum has been blocked, and this is damaging to our national interests, because I have a feeling that we are not actually going to vote on political grounds on a very important bill on national security and defence. That's why I'd like to call Oleg Volodymyrovich Laska. Oleg Valeriyovich Ljaska, who, despite all the contradictions, has always maintained national security, has followed these traditions, which we see in the Supreme Council for the fifth year. In fact, it's a bill. It's extremely simple and unresonant. We are once again eliminating the Soviets in the Ukrainian Armed Forces system, in the system of mobilization training, mobilization and we are changing the names of the military commissioners to the local assembly and social support centres. It's not just a change of name, it's a change of function, because it's not just a place where a person, a citizen gets the opportunity to serve and the honorary title of a military officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, it's also a place of employment, because the reform of the professional contractual army is now being expanded, and the main thing is that these centers will also be looking after social support. The question of the social rehabilitation of military personnel who have returned from the zone of military action, from the operation of the United Forces, or from the anti-terrorist operation before and, de facto, from war, they are extremely acute and it concerns everyone. We have over three hundred thousand war veterans now, and they all need the attention of the state. And, silently, it is the centres of assembly and social support that will play an appropriate role instead of the military, that they will be very successful in applying these powers and duties of the State in relation to our citizens. I'd like to inform and ask, colleagues, that for your support for the 19th year budget, 524 million dollars were included in full capital repairs and reconstruction of military units, including the creation of appropriate halls of fame, honor and so on. So I'd like to ask, colleagues, your support for us to vote on this project right now, it's got a total of 8 proposals: 5 counted completely, 3 rejected. And if there's unity, I'd like, colleagues, to read under the transcript the little amendment that we're obliged to make in one of the laws that we recently voted on, the anti-discrimination activity, the financing by operators of anti-trust activities directly from donors. This is a requirement of our Western partners. So if there's unity, I'm going to go to the right. And now, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would like to draw your attention to the need for us not to fail this project. And, Oleg Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u40	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u41	Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, the Radical Party, we are honored to support the issue of national security, as you have traditionally done, despite the political contradictions that do not apply to the work of our Committee on Security and Defence. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u42	Thank you. Colleagues, the right hand is not much, and I'm going to read the right-wing authors according to our tradition. Whoever insists on confirmation is by raising their hand. So 1-a. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. The author does not insist. 5th. Don't insist. 6th. Lechenko? None. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. None of the right-wing authors insist on their rights. Vinick insists. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u43	I'll read more under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u44	Turn on Mr. Vinnik's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u45	Colleagues, chapter I of the project add to paragraph 22 of the following content: "Part two of article 8 of the Ukrainian Anti-Dominance Activities Act" (“The Voice of Ukraine”, 24.01.19) add the following paragraph: “The financial resources involved by the operator of anti-Nuclear Activities directly from donors with a view to carrying out actions in the area of anti-Nuclear Activities in Ukraine shall be used in accordance with the directions agreed with the authorized operational bodies of anti-Nuclear Operations, the centre of anti-Nuclear Operations”. Please include this amendment in the text of the bill. The bill should be taken into account with observations, with comments from the General Legal Office that can be taken into account. And that's the same thing I'm proposing under the transcript. Therefore, I propose to vote in the second reading and in general, taking into account the suggestions of the General Legal Administration, the law I read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u46	So, colleagues, authors didn't insist on editing. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, we're moving on to making a decision. And I ask, colleagues, all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, the law is important for reforming the national security and defence sector. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Ukrainian security system needs to be affected not only on the air but also on the floor by the vote. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs. I'd like you to come back from bed. So please prepare and take up jobs. Ready, are you, colleagues? So please come in. Everyone, please come into the hall. Colleagues, we need to get into the work rhythm. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts in connection with the establishment of territorial assembly and social support centres based on military commissions (No.9285) with the rights that John Winnick has written under the transcript. Colleagues, this is a second reading so that we don't break the law. Please take the hall. It is presented in a second reading and in general with a copy under the transcript by the representative of the Committee on National Security and Defence, Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich. And with technical law. So, colleagues, please vote and please support. Vote, support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. We support national security, our colleagues, our votes. We're voting carefully. [[11:11:17]] For 177 I'm asking you to include the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 69, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 12, Parenthood – 13, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 4, non-fractional – 19. Colleagues, are there warnings to the law? I'm talking to everyone, including coalition factions. I'll put it back on now, but please come into the hall and vote. That's actually what I warned you about. We can't ask security and defense with a coin of exchange. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, I'll put you back. I ask everyone to be in the hall during the vote. So I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissions. Please vote and please support, colleagues, for your return. Please vote for the return. Vote. [[11:13:10]] For 181 The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 72, People's Front – 52, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 13, Parenthood – 11, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 7, non-fractional – 20. I don't really understand how we can. Am I betting on coming back? Colleagues, a spokesman for the committee, ask for a moment to explain the importance. I'm giving you a minute to do the show. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. Please invite all the deputies to the hall. Please, John Winnick, one minute. And I'll put it back. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u47	Colleagues, this is not to say that during war, political contradictions are an obstacle to the adoption of laws in the field of national security and defence. Andrew Volodymyrovich, I address you as the speaker of the Supreme Council as the leader. Please conduct urgent, urgent, without coming out of this bill without making a decision, political consultations with a view to seeking votes. We have neither the moral nor the political nor the diplomatic right to fail this project. I have already made appropriate calls to the political power of the Radical Party, which is now blocking and not supporting this project in relation to their political requirements. We haven't found consensus, I've exhausted the power of persuasion, but I insist as a committee representative that we find consensus in the room right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u48	So the faction was called. I'm giving Oleg Lazka a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u49	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, these are not the political requirements that block the rostrum, these are the realities of life. Millions of Ukrainian citizens are unable to pay for space payments because of the policy pursued by the authorities. People don't have the money, they don't have the pensions, they don't have the wages they get enough to pay the payments. That's why we're going to Parliament, to Parliament's leadership to adopt a decision that we registered back in November last year, to call off the government's decision to raise the price of gas, the moratorium on rising municipal tariffs, the release of the Naftogazu leadership, the return of the billion premiums they've written down. And we're blocking the parliamentary rostrum to meet our demands. I go to other factions, to colleagues from Homeland, to colleagues from Self-Help: let's work together to make decisions, not to stand alone, and you sit. Get up, get up next to us if we're fighting for people, not just mimicking our activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u50	Colleagues, I was addressing at the beginning of the session that the issue of security and defence could not become a bargaining coin of our political debate. I am approached by a committee representative and all members of the committee on the inadmissibility of failing this law, the inadmissibility of failing that law. Let's do it this way, Oleg Valeriovich. I'll be right there. We're going to vote on this law and then I'm going to call it a break, and we're going to consult on how to act. Can such a position be taken? Colleagues, as Head of the Supreme Council, I'm going to announce a recess and we're going to consult on this law. But this law we will vote and support. Fellows, I'm going to put the second time on the way back. I'm asking you to get all mobile, get into the hall. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, so I'm asking you to prepare for the vote. I'll make another offer to come back. So I'm asking you to support the proposal: go back to draft Law 9285. Everyone please take part in the vote and please come into the hall. I put to the vote -- and I ask everyone to vote -- the proposal to go back to voting for draft Law 9285. Colleagues, please vote, please take part in the vote. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:21:59]] For 178. The factions, please. "Peter Prashenko" – 69, "The People's Front" – 55, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 14, "The Fatherhood" – 11, "The Will of the People" – 2, "The Rebirth Party" – 5. Colleagues, given that the issue was of great importance, approached me by members of the National Security and Defence Committee to hold political consultations and then put to the vote. The bill has not been finalized. Not finished. I now announce a 15-minute break under the Rules. And, colleagues, I very much ask you not to depart from the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can gather and vote. I'm calling it a consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u51	I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. I'm now talking, especially to coalition members, to maximize, as to the entire hall, the adoption of a safe law. And I want to remind you, colleagues, that we need to establish a weekly agenda. If we don't approve the weekly agenda, I'm only going to have the right to ask questions of second reading and determination. We will not be able to consider the following security and defence issues. I'm asking you to take up jobs, come into the hall. I'll put the bill back on the table. Don't leave the hall or go into the hall. So, I would like to stress, after this vote, that I will propose to approve the weekly agenda. I would also like to remind you that, in the weekly agenda, we have a change to the Constitution on the introduction and direction of Ukraine to the EU and NATO, and we will not be able to move on to the next issues of safety, order of the day unless we vote on the weekly agenda. Please prepare for the vote, after this vote, I will propose to approve the weekly agenda. Please take your seats, please come into the hall, from the bed please return to the hall. I want to remind you that we have not supported the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts in connection with the establishment of territorial assembly and social support centres based on military commissioners is a security law. In order to remind me of the law, I give the floor to Vinic John Julius. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Ivan, one minute. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u52	Colleagues, this bill is not about tariffs, it's not about the Rules, it's not about the pre-election campaign, it's about the next parliamentary or presidential election. This bill about our warriors. This bill on reform, a reform that will eradicate the Soviets from the military commission system. They're going to change both their name and their status, and they're going to become centers of assembly and social support, colleagues. We are obliged to care for a Ukrainian soldier. We are obliged to care for our nation. From this rostrum, we always hear a lively speech about what Ukraine needs to do with a strong and powerful state, so let's concentrate and vote now, colleagues. We understand clearly that if we don't move this issue now, we will dishonor the entire Supreme Council. Colleagues, please concentrate, all the factions of Parliament, who care about the country's fate, the future of the country, to vote on this bill, including those who are now blocking the parliamentary rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u53	So, colleagues, take up jobs, we're going to vote. I remind you, I've put twice on the return, I'll put the third time, and if there are no votes, the security law will be rejected. I'm asking for all the responsibilities. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And, colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 9285 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation in connection with the establishment of regional assembly and social support centres based on military commissions (No. 9285). So, colleagues, please vote and please support. Colleagues, come into the hall. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Security law, we'll support the security sector, we'll support the Ukrainian army. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:56:18]] For 165 Colleagues, me. Mr. John, I'm sorry, but I have no other way of declaring Bill 9285 rejected. My colleagues, however, will now turn to everyone to maintain the weekly agenda as suggested by the Machine. Let me remind you, we won't be able to go to other security laws if we don't maintain the weekly agenda. I would also like to remind you that in the weekly agenda for the consideration of the laws of amendments to the EU-NATO Constitution as a strategic direction for Ukraine, on a weekly schedule, the consideration of changes to the Constitution for the renaming of Dnipropetrovska. And that's why I hope everyone will be able to maintain the weekly agenda right now. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to support, to approve the weekly agenda proposed by the apparatus. Please vote and please support. Please vote. Please support, we vote. Questions of information this week, too, security issues. [[11:57:44]] For 169 Something like that. Colleagues, I want to tell you that if I don't have the established order of the week, I have the right to ask only questions of second reading and determination, I have no right to impose other laws of security and defence. I'm going to ask you again today to confirm the weekly agenda, and I'm going to appeal once again to the hall after the factions can mobilize the people's deputies. We're having a hard time starting work, but I'm sure the factions will be able to mobilize after the break a special warehouse, take responsibility. When we establish the weekly agenda, we will be able to move on to the next issues of national security and defence, but we need to establish the weekly agenda. That's why I, colleagues, since it's 11:59, ask everyone at 12:30 to maximize the mobilization of all national MPs. And this is the primary responsibility of the faction heads so that we can establish the weekly agenda and move on to the following issues of order. And I'm going to look at the order of the day, and I'm going to look at what, the second reading or the determination, we're going to be able to continue our work. So right now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. Please all arrive at 12:30 in the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u54	Colleagues, please come into the hall. Time taken for a break is exhausted. Invite the deputies to the hall. So I would like to remind you that until the approved weekly agenda is reached, we have the right to consider only the questions of second reading and determination. I would like to remind you that on Monday's Conciliation Council, the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Spievakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich, asked to consider two decrees: the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists and the prize of the Supreme Council for young scientists (9505 and 9506). And until we establish the weekly agenda, I think we can look at these issues that unite the entire hall. And I'm sure we can mobilize and make positive decisions, where young scientists are concerned, the room has always shown great unity. So we're moving on to the draft Order on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for Young Scientists. Anyone who supports the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:36:09]] Z-71 The decision is not made. We are moving on to the full procedure for the draft Decision on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for Young Scientists (9505). And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people, we are looking at, in my opinion, the same important issue as the issue of military defence, because those processes that are currently taking place in the country at all, and especially in the field of education, once again show us what is coming, apart from the technological catastrophe, a catastrophe is coming in the educational sphere. I'll try to prove this. Well, first of all, it's very important that we consider these two decisions on Tuesday. We also see that those political processes that are taking place are giving us the opportunity to see a new format of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I would call this format "debate," because we understand that it will be very difficult to gather 226 votes in such a situation. And that's why I'm calling once again on the people's deputies to make a small window in their political demands and still vote. What are we talking about? Let's look at the last three years of the results of the CCW, the results of the migration abroad, and the results of the migration that exists in Ukraine. What are we going to see? For example, the eastern, southern regions of Ukraine suffer from a catastrophic migration that reaches 70 percent of all graduates in other areas of Ukraine. And we understand that we are actually forming a belt of ignorance around Ukraine. We have to stop these processes. And we also see that, for example, a government order in recent years has somehow been achieved by a broad competition when Kharkiv, Kyiv and Lviv have 51 percent. If we don't make the right conclusions with you, in 10 to 15 years, we're going to have a technological catastrophe in the development of human capital. I go to schools in Hersonian -- what do we see? We see that the results of the KNZ that we now have, well, for example, in 2018 we went to the physics teacher of 112 graduates, to the chemistry teacher of 208, and to the math teacher of 353. That's 16,000 schools! That means that after 10 to 15 years, we actually don't have fundamental disciplines in schools, and that means that in 20 years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has so many candidates and doctors of science, will not have this level of education. Dear colleagues, I was in the 24th School of Herson -- it's one of the central schools. It's a great physics office, a 76-year-old teacher, a physics teacher. I ask him, what are your problems? You have a modern physics class, you can show any experiments. He says, "There's only one problem: the problem is there's no next teacher. If there's a problem with me, it means that the school is without a physics teacher." It's very interesting that, for example, the University of Herson today receives a very large number of questions from Kiev asking them to send future teachers of mathematics, physics, chemistry, Kiev, from Herson. It's never been like this before. That means that we actually built a system where there's no teacher, there's not going to be a quality teacher. What do the results of the U.N.S.A. show us? They show that year after year we get worse and worse. This means that there are irreversible processes in school, which means that the quality of education is failing. This means that there is no substitute for those teachers who have come from Soviet times. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the decision that we have considered at the committee meeting on science and education and which has received the full support of our committee. That's the question, by the way, we're looking at every year when you and I make decisions about the award of scholarships and awards to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented scientists. See, since 2007, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine was set up, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's prize is 20 prizes of 20,000 dollars -- we understand that during this time there has been a very large inflation, and today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's prize, I emphasize, not the President of Ukraine, not the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who have already done these 40 and 50 grand respectively, we have 20,000. This means that young people who receive these prizes, who take part in this competition, do not actually get the right financial tool to work quietly on their research and, as a result, seek suitable grants abroad. And if they find them there, they leave, and they make a lot of added value, including by making startups. I'm talking to my colleagues from the Radical Party, the Oplock, Self-Help, the People's Front, and the Prashenko Block. Dear colleagues, let's get higher than what we now have. Because tariffs are also linked to the fact that young, talented young people are leaving our country, because economic growth is linear, it does not actually allow the rapid acceleration of wage growth, pensions, and so on. What does the Scientific and Educational Committee offer? It's a very simple thing to make sure that the title prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is 60 living minimums. It's going to be about today's dimensions, about 110,000 dollars a year. It'll be a perfectly normal, adequate sum for a young person, a doctor of science, a candidate of science, a professor or an associate to be able to get a financial tool and continue to work without thinking about where else to get some money to give a chance to do scientific research, to live with the family. Dear colleagues, I ask you to make an exception, understanding the whole situation, so that all the debates will be productive so that these debates will end with a productive vote. Every young person who finishes school today or works at a university or college is watching what happens to us. I understand there's been a lot of preparations for the presidential election. But young, talented young people in Ukraine are above all. Let's do an axiom or a better postulate, because postulates don't change until the Roman Empire. Let's do a very simple postulate: any educational laws, any support of young people, any support of scientists should be voted on any condition, even in war conditions, even if we can't find a common language. Dear colleagues, 60 living minimums is the meaning of our decision. I'm talking to all the factions, I'm talking to the people's deputies -- make an exception, hold these debates, and vote by 2 p.m. After voting in favour of this decision, we will show young people for the first time in four years that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is ready to provide adequate financial resources, which will be placed in Ukraine's budget for 2020 and will change the coordinate system. Ukraine’s Young People Above All! I appeal to the National Deputies to return and vote. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u56	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, now under the Rules -- I remind you that we are considering this decision in full procedure -- I am asking you to sign up for discussions by MPs and factions. Each group will have three minutes to perform, and then we'll have, I think, 15 minutes to discuss with the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please. Please, George Pavlovenko gives the word to his colleague, Mr. Dolženko. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u57	Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. Ladies and gentlemen, look what's going on in the plenary room. Representatives of the Presidential faction are turning to the Opposition Block. You first turn to your faction, you don't have half the factions in the room. Where's the coalition? You'll be here on Thursday, setting up the maximum appearance in order to make money on NATO and the EU. Of course, this is more important to you than the problems of developing education in Ukraine, rather than the problems of winning young scientists, talented young people. The Opposition Block will support this decision, as will all legislative initiatives related to the development of education, as well as the development of that intellectual potential, which is the centre and essential component of the country's investment development. Instead, I would like to point out that no political slogans are worthy of the said decision to fail. Unfortunately, however, the current coalition is not actually in the plenary room, again turning to the opposition faction to help them in this vote. It is unfortunate that the relevant decisions, which are registered by the Opposition Block, are not brought into the Plenary Hall because of political relevance, because the authors of this decree are the same as the Opposition Block. But we will support the decree. And above all, keep an eye on your appearance, and first of all, keep an eye on how you speak and how your president's capiates are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u58	Please, the next performance is Taras Kremen. He represents the position of the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, Taras Kremen, People's Front. Of course, it is extremely important to start the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by discussing extremely important legislative initiatives aimed at supporting talented young people under the age of 35 who have the right results as a result of fundamental research. And indeed, this scholarship, the name scholarship of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, could lay an extremely powerful foundation in our parliamentary attitude, namely, to those to whom we should be provided with an industrial, innovative, technological breakthrough in Ukraine. We look forward to the victory of our children at the all-Ukrainian and international Olympics, and we see our young students of the student age or age of masters or doctoral qualifications winning international competitions and levels as our graduates and the winners of the Small Academy of Sciences develop new innovative models. And fortunately, they are needed in the world. And they are fortunately preceding the development of our human civilization. But it's also very important to develop human capital within the country by making effective decisions. As a parliament, we have done a great deal to ensure that the level of funding for education in Ukraine in 2019 is quite high. And that's what we can talk about when we continue to finance the New Ukrainian School. And I think we're going to have the first results in the next few years. The first issue was the registration of primary school teachers for voluntary certification. Over 1,000 Ukrainian educators will be ready to launch a new system of quality assessment in general secondary education institutions during the year. And that's fundamentally important. The third, however important, is the development of vocational education. And what we're going to do is we're going to fund the development of new jobs, we're going to train our skilled workers, we're going to go to a completely different level of vocational training. And that's why we need to work out that the draft for vocational or vocational education in 2019 allows our institutions and our young people to go a lot further. So I would like to ask my colleagues with special consideration to take a look at the draft of this decision. This decision will be included and will work, starting in the 20th year. But we have no right not to support our young people, not to create the necessary conditions for their development, to stabilize the situation in the market, social, educational, innovative services in Ukraine. In doing so, we should show an example of a high cultural attitude toward talented people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustock's Block. The position of this faction is represented by the national deputy Kurilo. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u61	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs! The Peter Prashenko faction will support this decision, because one of the authors of this decision is the Block. But I would like to say that there are really some pretty interesting, valuable things in the determination. That's what's increasing the number of competitors from 20 to 30. This increases the very monetary reward of those who have already made significant progress in fundamental and applied research. Doctors of science also have a little bit of an age plank, which also allows more people to participate in the competition. All these positive things and they need to be maintained. At the same time, I would like to point out that today we have scientific research, science, especially science among young people, it's in a certain state of crisis. And unfortunately, there's a lot of systemic mistakes that we make when we don't push young people to do science to do serious scientific research, and how many bureaucratic obstacles we do for young people who start doing science. What is meant by bureaucratic obstacles? And that's true, in order to protect a candidate's or doctor's dissertation today, that's how many formal requirements have to be met, and these formal requirements cost real money. Well, what do you mean? Take, for example, the requirement that you have publications, scientific publications, in internationally recognized publications. And each such publication costs between 200 and 400 euros. Can a young scientist find such money to pay just to publish the results of his scientific research? How, though, can an English - speaking person who is involved in Ukraine’s history or in Ukrainian philosophy print his scientific research? So we need to remove all these obstacles and support really young people in their quest for scientific research.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u62	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u63	And the decision must be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u64	Thank you, my dear fellow! And here is Mr. Pisarenko, the head of the Rebirth Group. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u65	Thank you. I want to agree with my colleagues. It is a pity that we discuss such matters only when we need to make time, and we do not have the votes to make decisions. In fact, I have repeatedly called on the session hall to draw attention to what is happening today in education. And not only do we need to give prizes for students and for people who today show their skills both in science and in education, we also need to look at the deep issues that universities and schools today are addressing in the session hall. Because the things we're going to set up today are going to be this country in a long time. Last week we met with students in Kharkiv and discussed issues that needed to be addressed at the state level today. And, indeed, we have problems that apply to today's individual Cabinet of Ministers decrees that make it impossible for students to have normal access to state support today. I'm talking about getting scholarships. Today, those students who sometimes get better results can't get scholarships. Instead, the state, showing that it increases the amount of scholarships, just-just repays the loans to students, the ones that it has accumulated over months or years. So we need to address systematically the issues that the university and student communities are addressing today. After all, higher education today will help to get this country out of a crisis that, unfortunately, has ended in recent years. We will continue to collect proposals from the student community, from universities to make proposals to the session hall, and from the Cabinet of Ministers to help the students today to bring their skills to a new level. I would also like to state separately that we need to come to the question of if we were to give maximum financial autonomy to universities. And, believe me, university rectors and university management know better how to channel their funding today, both for the promotion and development of university infrastructure and for the award of the best students, to help them get the most out of their development. So we need to focus on the issues not when there are no votes in the session room, but really pay more attention and look at the bills that exist today to support education and student youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that not all the factions have signed up for the performance. Are there MP groups and factions that want to join the discussion but the button didn't work? None. Then, please, we give 20 minutes for discussion by the Ukrainian people's deputies. I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion. And I'm addressing all the colleagues who are in the towers right now, in 20 minutes, we're going to be voting on the draft ruling. Please, Mikhail Papiev, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u67	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u68	Please pass. Turn on the microphone for National Deputy Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u69	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, do you know what the absurdity of discussing today is? Is there at least one person in the room who will vote against not giving a single prize to a young scientist and a big bonus? There will be no such people, for everyone understands the need to do so. But let's face it, how do we deal with this issue today, Tuesday, the day of the vote? We do this because today the work of the Supreme Council is paralyzed. One of the laws has not been passed, is not voted in favour of the agenda, and according to the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, we can only consider decrees. And this 100 - percent decision is now an opportunity to discuss the subject. Let's face it, 60 salaries, 60, excuse me, living minimums for working persons, is that normal? Normally, it's over 100,000. But let's tell the truth, 30 Ukrainian citizens, young scientists with a population of 40 million, 30 will receive one-time aid in the form of 100,000. Okay? Okay. And they'll have a question: What happens tomorrow? What is the further fate of Ukrainian science? Do they choose the profession of scientist, or will they be needed by our nation in the future? Let's watch how the Academy of Sciences is financed. Whether it's pedagogical sciences or medical sciences or not, the National Academy of Sciences. Does it have enough funding to develop science as such in Ukraine? Of course not. And under such circumstances, we must admit that there is no systematic work in Ukraine to support young scientists. What is the outcome? This situation can only change one thing — the general situation in the country. Our country needs peace, our Ukraine needs development, our Ukraine needs economic development, because when it comes to economics, then there will be costs for all social spheres, including science. Undoubtedly, the opposition block faction will support this draft decision. But let’s give ourselves a reading and see carefully: Will this decree raise the required number of votes? And how is this going to correspond with those people who are going to the elections today and say, "We vote for Ukraine's future"? Now it's just embarrassing to sit in the hall and do things like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, the next performance is Yuri Pavlovenko. Did you pass it on? It's just that I have a computer. Yuri Pavlenko passed on the word Shurmi. Right? And now Yuri Pavlovenko. Please give a speech by Yuri Pavlovka. There is no wish to speak, please take the floor. And then the next performance is the People's Deputy Kremen, who is given the right to speak by his colleague, Lunchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u71	Taras Kremen, People's Front. This is one of those complex decisions that, unfortunately, will not solve all the problems of financing the education and science system in Ukraine. Just as the 5 percent of science funding is not being implemented in accordance with our adopted Law in the 15th year of Science and Technology. And risking it. We have unfortunately not been able to approve the guaranteed level of funding in the Basic Education Act, although it should be a guide for the full financial provision of general and secondary education. So, of course, it solves some of the problems, but it doesn't solve the system. But at the same time, I would like to remind you of the important things that we should continue to do. In particular, this year has become important to attracting the talent of young people who have graduated from higher education institutions in rural areas. And apparently, among the candidates for this award will be those young teachers or young doctors who, under a tripartite agreement, are now willing to work at the level of the hospital districts or the rural educational institutions. And I would very much like to have, by mid-May, local self-governance and adjuvant authorities, who have direct responsibility for this, form the necessary list of personnel and provide our schools, both rural and district, and support schools, and hospitals, and FAPs with young specialists. So I turn to the young of our age, to the talented graduates of Ukrainian universities, to join this problem. The second, however significant, is the problem, and I would like to draw attention to those who have a bearing on the restoration of emergency educational institutions. We have a catastrophic increase in the number of emergency educational institutions. It's about gardens, it's about vocational technical education. And directly, I'd like to highlight the problem of the New York School I-III in the city of the New Bug of the Mikolai region. For reasons of emergency, she fell a year and a half ago. Sadly, it has not been restored to this day. Today, about 700 students of this school, including children who are being taken from schools to institutions of support, are being placed in other institutions of education. And I want to thank the branches of our agrarian university, and I don't want to thank the education college, but I want to stress that we, as the people's deputies of Santa Claus, are going to demand an increase in funding and insurance in the full amount of this school's capital repair. Please support this determination and education reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u72	Thank you. And please, now, the word of the People's Deputy of Blood. Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u73	Good afternoon! Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Well, first of all, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to invite all our deputies into the hall again, as we normally do. The other one. I would like to address everyone here, in the room, to wait for the vote and vote in favour of the ruling. At the same time, turn to our colleagues who block our rostrum: honourable colleagues, if you will, for one minute during the vote to return to vote in favour of the decree. In addition, I would like to point out that this decision changes certain standards quite significantly. In particular, it is the size of the corresponding bonuses, and the age of young scientists, that is to say, it increases, which will be able to receive the corresponding bonuses. So for today, given that we are not here for the first time to consider this issue and the premiums that have been initiated by the Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2007, I would like to have ours today. Today was the same day when we voted on the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, next is the People's Deputy of Aresonkov, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, today's workday we have begun with the consideration of drafts that refer to the category of national security issues of the state. The issue of strengthening the country's security, building up the modern army and so forth is really a matter of national strategy, national security. But what I'd like to say is that the question that we're looking at right now is maybe by its own name, it doesn't refer to such, let's say, seedlings of some kind, but it's, again, from the national security category of the state. Because what will be the future of the Ukrainian education and science system, and we have repeatedly emphasized this, depends also on the development of the nation as a whole, including its power, its ability to compete today among other developed countries of the world. So, of course, there should be a great deal of attention to both the question and its outcome, the adoption of this decision and, accordingly, the establishment of scholarships for young scientists. I want to remind you that last year the government adopted a position on the creation of a National Science Strategy Fund, where there are defined ways of financing Ukrainian science in specific fields. But in general, I agree with my colleagues that, unfortunately, today's funding is completely inadequate, non-systemic, starting with the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences and others, you can absolutely agree here with the thought of colleagues. Therefore, attention to individual, seemingly insignificant issues today, as well as to financing and providing for the education and science sectors of Ukraine, is, once again, an important and primarily strategic one for our country. So today I would also like to invite all my colleagues to unite now because, unfortunately, it has happened that the Head has put this decree under consideration at a time when political passions are being aroused in the Supreme Council, daily order for a week, and it is determined, let’s say, by the order in which the bills are being considered. However, right now -- and again, I support my colleagues' opinion -- we all need to focus, focus, and, of course, vote on the decision. I call upon all factions, all groups of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u76	And thank you, dear colleague. And I'm angry with all the national MPs who call on my colleagues to return to the session room. Today is the first day of the new session, and obviously we have to show the normal result of our work during the day. Please, Mr. Dolezhenkok. One more word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u77	Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, here we have a valid president during his election campaign putting up the boards: "Real affairs, not false promises!".. I don't really believe that the exact slogan is consistent with the principle of the coalition's activity. You just see what the Supreme Council is doing right now. In fact, it's going from empty to empty. Where are the real things? The first day of the plenary session, they all started. Political passions should be out of Parliament, but unfortunately, the work of the Supreme Council is not at the top of the current coalition, and the coalition wants to convert its only candidate to the Presidents of Peter Prashenko, so they probably don't want to be young, of course. You, I say again, will see how they organize and mobilize on Thursday as they make changes to the Constitution, which in no way improve the living conditions of citizens who will never get closer to Ukraine, either to NATO or to the European community, by coming out of those official statements that are coming from both NATO and the European Union. And as for the support of young people, surely the Opposition Block faction will support that decision. As always, in a consistent position, the Opposition Block will support all decisions aimed at the development of education. Unfortunately, we have to say that the said coalition, the given power, is destroying the remnants of education that were left in Ukraine during the same development in the USSR. We had the largest percentage of the literate population, we had a very large material and technical base, an institutional base, a scientific base, but now it's all falling apart. They say, "We're going to build a new one," but instead they don't offer anything. Instead, they're destroying the industry by buying French helicopters, American locomotives, and since 2015 -- think about it! - no plane. We're talking about Ukraine as an airline country, and it's a very serious intellectual cluster of our country. No serial aircraft has been produced, and no one talks about it. These are the real things that the coalition is offering with its president.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u78	Thank you. And please give the next speech, National Deputy Brichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u79	Please give us the word Vadimu Podbreznak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u80	I didn't know who to say the word to. Who should I turn on the microphone?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Almost every day, we express deep concern that our professional scientists are moving abroad. We encourage each other almost every day to support our scientists, our young specialists, but we do very little to do so. I think today we can take a super powerful step for many of us and press the green button to support this determination. Thank you. Please all support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u82	Thank you. And the next speech, please, is by the people's deputy Sauka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u83	Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, today, on the first day of the opening session, I would like to say that the rulings that are under consideration today are the national support of our country of Ukraine. As far as national security and defence of Ukraine are concerned, the most important thing is what should be in our country and to which we should gather rather than bring these issues to our own personal interests. As far as young people are concerned, this is our future. At this time alone, I remind you, there is a war going on, not only in the east of our country of Ukraine, but inside Ukraine. So we have to do everything we can to win the war with the Moscow aggressor. In this room, words are spoken to the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I remind you, it's not a certain personal one, we're going to talk about what it is right now, it's our President, it's our Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And to anyone who wants to say anything, he speaks by name on Moscow's hand. So I urge you, my noble friends, we must gather together on these bills so that we can give our young people a chance to give the future to our country. War can be won when new weapons and our scientists are in place to teach our children. I urge you, once again, to come to the session room and vote for the draft laws currently under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a closing statement from our colleague Igor Shurma. And I ask the deputies to return to the session room, we have to show today's effective vote, on the first day of the new session. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u85	Andrew Volodymyrovich, I have a big request for you. If we're considering the rulings, please ask for a review of the Order on the Marking of the 175-year-old artist of the world-renowned Elijah Ripin, Decree No. 9378, registered on December 7, 2018. And I'd like a word with you, please, to pass on Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u86	Please, Mr. Litwin, give me your word. And that's the closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion of the draft Supreme Council Decision reminds me of the behavior of one of the professors of one of the schools who used to say, "I didn't read the dissertation, but I would say a few words about it." I am listening carefully to the speeches of the Supreme Council of People on this subject, which are intended to say something without understanding the substance of the problem, without knowing what is behind the problem. And it's that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to make a decision that you can somehow support young talented people and keep them from immigrating to where better opportunities have been created so that they can realize their potential. At the same time, to my profound conviction, the Supreme Council has a tremendous responsibility for what decisions it has made on the science and education sphere. Well, let's say the Science and Science and Technology Act, it doesn't work at all, it only works in one part, and it's actually creating governance structures that have to be based on self-governing principles. The requirement of the law on financing science and scientific research in Ukraine is not being met at all. And the Supreme Council, by making a budget, is actually ignoring the decision it's made. The other one. The Education Act, it doesn't work in part of the funding again. What can we continue to talk about, and why does the Supreme Council deal with adopting appropriate laws and regulations that are totally not being implemented? I'm not saying that the Supreme Council has the key responsibility for destroying the system of vocational and technical education. Now, there's a system of so-called secondary special education on the verge of survival, I mean colleges and technicians. So I'm sure, and I'm convinced that we have to demonstrate professionalism and responsibility in all matters, and make the decisions we need. And now I have the impression that there are not enough votes in the Supreme Council to adopt other documents, so we decided to move on to the adoption of the decrees and discuss them in full procedure to fill in the time. Well, that's not a responsible approach. This reflects once again the residual attitude toward the humanitarian sphere, education, and science in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u88	So, colleagues, the discussion is over. Now there's going to be a closing statement by the committee representative, and in a minute we're going to go to the vote. So I'm asking all the factions to invite the MPs to the room as much as possible. I'm asking the secretariat to report who's in the towers, the deputies, so they can come into the hall, we'll move on in a minute or two to the decision-making process. And, dear fellows, I ask you to approach this vote responsibly. Everyone, please come into the hall. After the closing statement, we move on to making a decision. And I invite you to the closing statement of the First Deputy Head of the Sperm Committee of Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, I appeal to you that, despite all our different political views, despite the fact that the presidential election race has begun, we must vote. In this regard, as we do for all of us when we want to influence the right decision, Andry Volodymyrovich, I appeal to you to make a decision and to publish the names of all the absolute national deputies who have not decided to vote for our young people for their future. Because it's a historic decision. Secondly, I promise myself as a representative of the Committee on Science and Education to send all these lists to all universities, to all the students, to all the students, to bring every student who is going to vote in the presidential elections, to the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to see which of the national deputies didn't want to give us the opportunity to increase the names of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking young people to read those who didn't want to vote for Ukraine's future – for you, for those who would create a new Ukraine, not in words, but in action. I'd like everyone to vote. And the glory of Ukraine! The glory of our young ones!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u90	Heroic glory! I fully support the committee's head. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to mobilize, take jobs, get back from government beds and from guest beds to the hall. This is really my request, colleagues. Come back to vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. And, colleagues, we're always on education issues, young people's support has been brought together, organized, and, I'm sure, this time we'll do the same. And that's why, colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. And I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for Young Scientists (No. 9505) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote in favour of Ukrainian youth, Ukrainian education, colleagues. Vote. We support, support, support, and support Ukrainian youth. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Vote. [[13:23:55]] For 223 They didn't make it, they didn't make it, they didn't make it. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, I'll be right back. Don't be ashamed, I see. At the time of the vote, stay put. I've announced several times that there's going to be a vote. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, not to discuss it during the vote. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I'm proposing to go back to Project 9505, support Ukrainian youth, support Ukrainian education. Please vote and please support, colleagues, unanimously and in agreement. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote! We're backing up! Come into the hall. Vote! Please take part in the vote. [[13:24:55]] For 242 The draft has been approved. And, colleagues, I'm going to remind you. Stay where you are, colleagues. Ivan, come back. Now we have, I'll remind you, to establish the order of the week. I'm asking you to support this proposal. However, I will promise you that the next one will be, Mr. Alexander, your next Order 9506, and then we will return to the security and defense issues. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support everyone's weekly schedule. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ah, us. Colleagues, we voted "return," right? Yeah? The rulings haven't been voted on yet? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, it was just a return, I'm sorry. So now it's a decision, and then it's a weekly agenda. So, colleagues, I'm putting the bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award to Young Scientists (9,105) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, if I may have your support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. We support Ukrainian youth. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:26:11]] For 236 And before I go to the second decision, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote an offer to accept the weekly agenda prepared by the apparatus and distributed to you. Please vote, please support is security and defense, this is a change to the Constitution. Please vote, please support the weekly agenda. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Done and voted responsibly. It's also a matter of information, colleagues. [[13:26:51]] For-170. Unfortunately, there are no votes yet. And we're moving on to the next draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award Order for Young Doctors of Science (9506). And I would like to support the discussion of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:27:21]] For 114 All right, colleagues. I only have one request: we have to finish by two o'clock. I ask you to speak as briefly as possible so that we can make a decision by two o’clock. And, colleagues, please, at 2 p.m., the next vote will be in the hall to support the ruling. We're moving to consideration. And I'm inviting you to the report of Spermachovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. I'm sure we'll support that decision, too. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich. Thank you. Andry Volodymyrovich, the honourable colleagues, well, first of all, let me thank everyone, thank you on behalf of the Committee on Science and Education, which worked on this Order 9505, and for voting. I just want to say that young people see how we vote, and if that's our priority, we voted, and for the first time in a year, young people will get 30 of our most talented scientists will actually get about 120,000 dollars. This already means that we have taken a very powerful step. Now the next question is 9506. It relates to the first question, for they are scholarships, named scholarships of the Supreme Council. We also tie them to 60 living minimums, and since they will be paid monthly, they will be 5 living minimums. That's about 9.5,000 dollars in today's reality. Dear colleagues, this is a totally normal scholarship that will allow a person to work perfectly well, to do his job, to stay in the territory of Ukraine and to think about how to capitalize not only on himself, but how to capitalize on his own institute or university. It's a really big opportunity. Dear colleagues, in addition to this, we do have a very large number of problems today. The problem is the outflow of young people. I've already talked about teachers. Dear colleagues, I just want to look again at the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Please think about the "Teacher" State Program. We need to make sure that the kids don't go to the 120-minus class with the 120-minus ball, but that they do at least the 150-plus ball. What we're seeing right now is actually going to stop the quality education process that high school is providing today. That's why this is the first "Teacher" program. Next. We have to solve the problem that the teacher, I agree with my colleagues who have spoken before, and we are discussing these issues on the committee that we should ensure the implementation of the basic Education Act, which we voted on September 4, 2017. Dear colleagues, it clearly says: Four living minimums. Please, we have to ensure this level, because the person who finishes his pedagogical training should go to school and at least have a base salary of 6,800. Then teachers who already have an internship have a class lead, sew it up and so forth, even though they've already got 12 or 13,000 bracelets. If we don't, we'll still have a big vacancy for our teachers. Herson, for example, has already reached 1,000 700 vacancies. So what we are doing today is a dotive tool, showing that the Supreme Council of Ukraine really wants young talented scientists to stay here in Ukraine to capitalize and allow Ukraine to move forward. An innovative economy in its heart has a person who is educated, a professional person. Dear colleagues, let's forget about our differences again. I understand all the absolutely things that say about political contexts, but young people can't be, they have to be political contexts, outside of the requirements that exist, either way. Dear colleagues, if we do this for the first time in 12 years, we're going to do a very powerful job for young people, that we have a financial resource, that we have an orientation for our young people, that we want young people to stay and that these young people really do create a new value for our country. Dear colleagues, we are meeting, we are voting, and everything will be fine for our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u92	Thank you for your performance. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we do not have a report here. And now I'm asking you to sign up for discussions by MPs and factions. Please. Please, Roman Macola, present the position of Peter Dusty's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u93	Good afternoon! Roman Macola, Hmelnicka district, 190 constituency. You know, it's really great that today at the beginning of the session we're looking at really these kinds of decisions. Why? Because we're all just saying that we need to back up, we need to do something, but we're just starting to take concrete steps right now. And because of that, Peter Dusty Block, it's really going to support this determination. I also call on all colleagues who are not in the hall for some reason today, to find an opportunity and return to work for some reason. Why? Because we're looking at really the whole country today and I'm often asked why there are no deputies in the workplace. And I have nothing to say because I'm ashamed of myself. Therefore, a request to support and return to the workplace is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. And please welcome Alexander Dolženkov, who represents the position of the Opposition Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u95	Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. Dear citizens, on the other hand, I am addressing you, and most of the time, perhaps the coalition representatives, who do not need to be approached by other factions. You're a coalition now. You have full political responsibility for the situation in which our country as a whole and our gifted youth in particular. Youths need to be supported. But unfortunately, this bill is a palatifist, this decision is not enough to give a very serious impetus to tell young people that there are really favorable conditions in Ukraine. Because this educational reform, which was voted by a coalition and some factions that are not formally part of the coalition, but actually formed the European Ukraine coalition in 2014, has actually led to a collapse, a breakdown in the world system. You're actually eliminating the exact sciences that our young people were famous for, that was that competitive advantage, you might say, the tenacity that we got after the Soviet education system that wasn't as ineffective as you're all talking about right now. Our nation differed from very serious scientists in the field of exact sciences: physics, chemistry, mathematics, algebra, geometry. And these scientists are very much appreciated around the world. And now we've made it unclear where we're going and what we're doing with Western standards. But the bad news is that the hours for these disciplines are shrinking. In fact, you've destroyed the vocational training system. That's why we dropped the middle chain. And to talk about what we're doing right now is putting a lot of pressure on young people, it's just populism. This is actually being considered by a bill that doesn't raise any objections from all factions, and that's why there's hope to support this legislation. The opposition block is going to be supporting the bill, but it's saying that you've actually ruined what worked properly, I mean the education sector, and you're making it look like you're helping someone in some way. And we call, of course, to join the vote and still gather the coalitions in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u96	And the next performance is going to be the position of the People's Front faction. Please, HennadayBloody, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Good day again, dear fellows! First. The People's Front faction has always supported and supported the initiative, especially with regard to the support of young scientists in our country. The other one. I would like to point out that today, in reality, the attention that young scientists need is lacking in the country, and we realize that it is probably Parliament’s responsibility to make decisions that primarily apply to the assignment of appropriate bonuses, scholarships, and so forth. I would like to stress this again today, and thank you, by the way, all the deputies who have returned to the hall and are now here, and voted in favour of the first decision to continue in such a spirit, we have actually voted in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u98	Thank you. And please, the next performance is the Rebirth Group. Mr. Pisarenko is given the floor to present the position of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u99	Thank you. In fact, the Rebirth Group has supported the first decision, and we will continue to support what comes out of the Education Committee. We stress once again that we need to give as much attention as possible to the issues of education, because that is behind our future, the future of our country. Today we see tens of thousands of our students and graduates of Ukrainian schools going abroad to study, creating the economy of neighbouring countries: Poland, Czech Republic, Russia, and other countries. They're developing and giving the future to completely different countries, and they can't come back here because they're hugging a new country. When we consider such questions, I would like to think that we are actually losing an entire generation of education in Ukrainian schools today, but after that we are leaving the country. If we pay more attention to this, if we show that it is in Ukraine that their knowledge will be taken with respect and we have jobs for young people, we will have a future. The same thing about science: if we show today that young scientists have respect, there's something to do, there's support from the state, because science can't live without State support, and without substantial state support, and Parliament here can take on a key role, if today the Cabinet of Ministers doesn't pay attention to it, we can take the lead with you in supporting both studentism and science and education, and today answer questions that concern young people, how they can build a future in this country. If we don't care about labour migration, and I remind you that in recent years millions of people have left, and even with the information of our Ministry of Social Policy from 7 to 9 million Ukrainians working abroad today, it's almost a separate European country that's left Ukraine for profit. I realize that someone may like that there is a currency coming from other countries, but Ukraine’s future will not be if we do not return the Ukrainians who have left our country. So we need to support this initiative now, and we need to be able to demonstrate the support of scientific youth once again. But at the same time, we would like to point out that this is not enough to change the situation for the better. Let us continue to support science and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u100	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to speak to the MPs and factions, whether everyone has taken advantage of their right to speak. Please give 15 minutes for the national MPs of Ukraine. Please sign up. Colleagues, and please return to the hall, not to take a break early in the second hour, because we have to vote in favour of this decision, for the conclusion of the discussion. Please, Paul Kishkar, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u101	Thank you. Indeed, by supporting the presiding officer, I will invite everyone into the hall. The systemic things proposed by Mr. Spiowakovsky should be voted on. And this is a non-systemic thing, which is more money, which is actually going to come up to specific scientists and specific people who do specific things in science, and I think it's the right thing to do, and it's using it to support it. Today, attention to science is the least, and we finance it in the rest of the way, along with the challenges facing the state: whether it's war, whether it's economic downturn, or it's humanitarian, it needs science, it needs fundamental science. Today's developments, especially in the military-industrial complex, say what. and give hope to Ukraine that we will become a real exporter, an arms exporter country all over the world, and take a proper place among the participants in the arms market. Instead, scientists who are involved in the development of new weapons, particularly in private companies, are deprived of opportunities to obtain grants. The state is not using the principle of grant distribution, which we insist on and will promote among young and not very young scientists who are involved in the development of technology in the military and industrial complex. Ukraine's military-industrial complex today is directly linked to young scientists who, in particular, have developed new technologies for unmanned aviation. And today we're taking leadership positions from the development of aircraft, drones, and moving our goods to the external markets. I think that in the process of liberalizing the military-industrial complex, when we eventually eliminate the specter and allow private companies to directly export their own, under state control, of course, their products and dual-purpose goods abroad, these same costs will return to science, return to scientists, and we will be able to build a decent and military-industrial complex, and a scientific industry. This decision needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u102	Thank you. Please, Borislav Bereza, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u103	What can I say? A while ago, the information space interrupted information that the head of the country had closed the Academy of Sciences in Turkmenistan. He closed it at all because he doesn't think the Turkmens really need it. There's no need for science, I guess. He said it was more of a need for money. If we don't want to get rid of young scientists, if we don't want to get rid of people who can actually find new solutions in science, we need to finance it. But we need to understand where this money is going. Because if we want to talk about how we need to make money, and we don't want to give money to structures, we don't get anything. Now a very large number of people are looking for jobs in other countries. And it's not just skilled specialists in some technical structure, it's not just welders or builders, no! They're not builders, they're scientists. If we want scientists to stay in Ukraine to do their professional work, if we want Ukraine to develop these industries, we need to finance it, and this money can really help. I'm not saying it's going to be a major solution to this question -- no! But this can really enable young professionals to engage in their activities. In addition, we need to talk about this: we need to understand that we will never have new Facebooks, Googles, Tesla and other innovations, unless we help and promote this climate, the creative climate. Because young scientists are looking for grants to self - realization in order to create new inventions. So not only do I have to look at scientists who work in public institutions, I agree with my colleagues, but also with those who work for private institutions, but who can benefit Ukraine. That's why I'm proposing to vote for this right now, but also to address Mr. Singer's issue of financing young scientists in any field that might benefit the state, And, Vice Speaker, I want to address you, I think we should ask people to come in, because unfortunately, if they don't start coming in now, there won't be any votes. And I'm sorry to see that Tuesday turns into a drunk or Wednesday when there are no votes in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u104	Thank you. I fully support the national deputy of Berezu. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room because it looks rude when the first sessional day is due to different events. The politicization of our work cannot be decided. Please, People's Deputy Sauka, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u105	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, the most important are being considered, and these laws that our nation needs are our future, our generation, our youth. Yes, unfortunately, many young, talented scientists are now going outside of Ukraine looking for work. We here in Parliament must do everything we can to prevent this from happening, in order to provide work, to ensure that our young people, our scientists, stay here with us, in Ukraine. At this time of war, we need to think about it, think about it, first of all, for the future. And some MPs, unfortunately, in this session room are engaged in populism, their ambitions are higher than national ones, we should not let that happen. I'm addressing you, dear colleagues. Let's think about our nation, our young people, our scientists. We must do our utmost to live in the present state, a state developed, provided and with our talented specialists, so that our experts, our scientists, will remain in Ukraine. I call upon all, Your Honourable colleagues, to enter the session room and vote as voted in favour of the previous bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. Next performance. Please, Igor Shurma. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u107	IgorShurma, the Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Let's face it. Today, by increasing the amount of a monthly scholarship to young scientists, doctors of science, we want to change the situation of labour migration associated with the development of science in Ukraine. Tell each of you to give yourself an answer. Our young ones are wise and talented, no doubt, and let us seek confirmation. I don't want to talk about Cambridge, Oxford, Sorbonne, Bologna. You see what happens in institutions, in universities in Poland, in the Czech Republic, in Slovakia, in Hungary, in Germany. There are many young people who are learning from Ukraine. They don't expect scholarships, they want to learn, and they want perspective. And a large number of our children who are learning there will undoubtedly return to Ukraine. And it's not because they don't love their state, it's not because they don't have a job here -- they don't have a perspective here. Now think about what we are doing today. A positive step? On the one hand, yes. After all, 10,000 a month for young doctors of science, that's good. How many young scientists do we have in Ukraine? 40 million Ukrainian citizens, young scientists who want to live in Ukraine, to develop science, to make Ukraine strong, are just over 7,000. Think about it, it's only 7,000! And of those 7,000 only 30 today will claim, and it will be very difficult to choose some criteria, whether they deserve those 30 scientists, 31 or 37. There will be thirty lucky people who can get a little more money. We want to have good teachers who will teach our students and students, we want good doctors, we want good engineering, we want designers -- we want professionals. In order to have them, it is necessary to invest money not in scholarships or in prizes, even if they are hundreds of dollars. Today, the system needs to change. As long as there is not enough budget and money, there is no need to count on large funds to be allocated for medicine, for culture, for education. This is, first of all, a necessary economy. For the economy to work, peace is needed. Without peace in Ukraine, we will achieve nothing. And I want to talk to the author. Don’t focus on the need for specific teacher programs. Because a physician, an engineer, a cultural worker, also needs adequate attention from the State, appropriate funding. Change the system and select.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u108	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u109	You need to change the system and set aside the costs. You know, that's how it feels today that it's up to the MPs. But you tell the deputies to vote an increase in scholarships today -- we'll vote. We don't have the question, the question in Kabmin is how much money will be allocated for science. It's a question for them, and we're going to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u110	Thank you. AresonkovVolodimir Yuriovich. My colleagues, this is the last performance. In three minutes, we're moving on to the decision-making process, so I'm going to ask everyone to come to the hall. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I, like my previous speech, will invite you all to support this decision. Because it's about the establishment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's name scholarships for young scientists -- doctors of science. And certainly, by supporting the decision itself, we support both Ukrainian science and we support the prestige of the profession today, the prestige of science, scientific development, and we create additional incentives to keep young people in the field of attention. I would like to remind you that the adoption of this decree is also made entirely practical and technical. The fact is that the ruling of the Supreme Council, which establishes the order and procedure for the award of nominee scholarships, was adopted in 2007 and in accordance with monetary standards. The point is that every month young scientists received only 2,000 dollars. Of course, today is not the kind of financial support that should be. In addition, we have to take into account that a number of laws that have been passed today, about scientific, scientific and technical activities, we have joined the system of international standards and certification, and this all determines the need for this decision, because it regulates the order itself, the procedure for promotion, the criteria for sentencing and so on. So today, when a young scientist gets up to 10,000 dollars a month of stimulus, it's really going to be important, and again, I emphasize, it will create additional conditions for the development of our Ukrainian science. So I urge everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u112	Thank you, colleagues. And the final performance, but not for three minutes, but for a minute, there's only a minute left. Salvar Roman. Ruslan Mikolaiovich gives the floor to Melniczuk. And please, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you to invite everyone from the towers to the hall. Please, Mr. Melniczuk. Melnichenko, I'm sorry, Melnichenko. I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone, please. Is it on? It's already on. If you don't mind, I'll have the camera turn on Melnick's microphone. Please raise your hand. Raise your hand. Turn on the microphone. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u113	Vladimir Melnichenko, 193 constituency. So, really, 30 scholarships, 30 bonuses, is that a lot or a little bit? Well, that's not really a lot for the country. But if there's nothing, it's also a big help for our students. I represent the city of Kamyanec-Podil, the city of Cestudien, and we have two great vases: the university of education and the university of agriculture. And many, yes, many today see themselves at work abroad. But I believe the time will come, these young people will return to our country. And the wonderful knowledge that our branches provide will be applied to our science, to our industry. And that's why today we need to support this draft decision. I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall, it's really us who vote for our young people, for the future of our state. And as I say, we learn, we work, and we do a lot of good things together. And it's gonna be okay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u114	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Don't go out there, just go in the hall. One minute, Spivakowski, the closing word. And, colleagues, in a minute of voting, I'd like everyone to take their seats, come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as part of the discussion that took place, it is clear that everyone will support it. I very much hope that we will not have to go to the students to influence the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But I just want to make a reflex of the teacher's remarks there. Why did I say that? When any state sees that there's a narrow place, a big problem that leads to a huge, catastrophic problem of human capital, we need to respond quickly, so I said that we need a separate teacher program. We can't do it without her, we won't have a math teacher in school in 15 years, no physics, no chemistry, no biology. So, dear colleagues, what we are now accepting is a signal that the Supreme Council is turning towards our young people, it is now voting, and young people and others who remain in Ukraine will be creating.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-05-m0.u116	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. So that we don't come back, please take your jobs. Colleagues, Mr. Andrewsky, please. Colleagues, please return to the hall and take up your jobs. Both education and youth are supported by all the halls. And today the Ukrainian people are looking at us, and I'm sure everyone is backing this decision, and we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominee scholarships for young scientists of science (number 9506) on the basis and overall of the committee's proposal. Please vote. Please support the young. Colleagues, let's support the Ukrainian youth. We will support our young scientists. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. We will support young people and Ukrainian education. We're backing up, fellows! Vote! Vote! Please back up! [[14:00:04]] For 224 Well, colleagues, two votes, how could you! Please continue until this matter is completed, take your seats during the vote. Colleagues, please, this is irresponsible. I often see those young scientists, they come to us with bright eyes, and there can be no risk of our being undisciplined. Please vote, colleagues. The first vote is the return. Please return to 9506. Please vote. Please support, every voice. We vote, colleagues, for young people, for education. Vote! We're backing up! Vote, fellows! Support Youths and Education! [[14:00:51]] For 224 Two votes. I see, Mrs. Oksana. Please, Mrs. Irina, come on. Ma'am. Please! So, colleagues. Back to your seats, please, colleagues. Two votes. I ask everyone to be disciplined. The first vote is to go back to 9506. I'm asking you to support, colleagues, youth and education, it's not politics. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. We're voting for the return. And please be in the workplace. Voting, supporting. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Vote. We'll support young people and education. We'll support young scientists, colleagues, all together. [[14:01:38]] For 243 We're back. Now I'm putting the 9506 Project on the ground as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. Everyone is responsible, every voice. To vote responsibly, please everyone. [[14:01:58]] For 238. It's been decided. And welcome to the committee, and welcome to the young scientists, and welcome everyone in a responsible position. The factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 90, "National Front" – 66, "Opposition Block" – 16, "self-help" – 16, "Radical Party" – 3, "Batakishtina" – 5, "Will of the People" – 4, "Party of Rebirth" – 11, "non-fractional" – 27. Thank you all for your support, colleagues. Education brings us together. And now, unfortunately, is the time for our work. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4:00, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
