ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Prepare to register. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[12:35:28]] There are 365 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make some announcements, and then I'll give the floor to our colleagues. The first and most important thing is that yesterday you and I celebrated the Day of Protector of Ukraine. It's an important holiday, but unfortunately it's very often bitter. So I think that both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and many other institutions, just the citizens of our state, have to do everything they can to finally have peace, so that we can get our territories back, so that territorial integrity and independence will never again be under question and under external aggression. The second equally important question is, I'd like to welcome everyone to the fact that yesterday, the Ukrainian team proved that we know how to play football and we can play football. And not only can we do it, we can do it, we can do it. I think we need to set an example in other areas, as well. What's even more important is the question of what I gave you today, these are the hands. I was able to talk to the kids last week, it was one of the Kyiv schools, it was a high school. You know, paradoxically, children have sometimes asked questions that aren't adult, so balanced, so balanced, so smart and deep that you wonder. And I want to wish for myself and you that we don't forget who we work for in this room for. And today we also have children in our guests, I think we should welcome you. Thank you, come to us. [[Applause]] And today we have a noun, Peter Ivanovich Pavlovsky. I welcome my colleague, my desire for health, my strength. And I suggest that everyone join these greetings. [[Applause]] We're starting our work. Colleagues asked for the word, I'll give you two minutes. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Two minutes of your attention. Everyone knows that yesterday in our country we celebrated a series of various festivals, first of all it's God's Mother's Cover and Mother's Day. In addition, yesterday was the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks and the Day of Respect for UPA Soldiers. I am no longer talking about the entire collection of personal festivals that were held yesterday. I would like to take this opportunity, from this high rostrum, first of all, to invite here to the rostrum of all the representatives of the forces, veterans of wars and conflicts and of the ancients, and of our new history, here to support us. [[Applause]] By the way, you see, representation is quite symbolic and quite diverse. Here, without distinction as to political factions, without distinction as to certain political preferences, and so forth. There are all kinds of government, military names, and various categories: generals, officers, soldiers, volunteers, law enforcement officials, and the Security Service. And it's also very, very signifying to me. We all know that the conflict that we face and that lasts for the sixth year is often called hybrid. It's a purely academic definition, but I think it's actually very true. How can we respond to a hybrid threat? Just total hybrid resistance. And so on this day, it's usually customary to mention the soldiers of the Armed Forces, the National Guard, the volunteers, in one word, those who defend our nation with weapons in their hands. But we all know that Ukraine needs protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u4	Not just on the front. We need to protect the information area, we need to protect our economy, we need to maintain the rule of law in the country, we need to create the right conditions, as General Mannerheim has said in his own time, so that people want to protect the standard of living that meets their expectations. And if we add to the list of these strong structures, their representatives of all those who are waiting at home, watching the news, not sleeping at night, it can be said that almost half the population of our country is directly or indirectly involved in this holiday. Sadly, this work is horrendous, dirty, and bloody from time to time. Unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u6	Let us therefore invite, as national deputies and representatives of our electorate, to begin our morning session today, with a moment of silence to mention all those who will never return from battletimes who have died and given their lives in the course of military service and, sadly, will never again give up their vote for one of us or for our successors. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u7	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of all of us, allow us, on behalf of all of us, to wish that all of us would carry out their military duties with dignity, dignity, and honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u8	Thank you, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Let's fold. Honourable National MPs, on October 5, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on the electoral side of Ukraine's National Deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-member constituency of Kopilenka Aleksandra Ljubimovitch, who was included in the election list of the "Serve of the People" political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine Kopilenko Oleksandr Ljubiovic is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u9	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u10	Thank you. Alexander Ljubovich, welcome. Please take a seat in the hall. Honorary colleagues, on Friday, October 4, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed a member of the Central Election Commission, Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovič. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, members of the Central Electoral Commission shall swear before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u11	Dear chairman, distinguished members of the presidency, distinguished national deputies! I, Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes to present the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, and reports. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u13	Honourable Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, MPs for the Future, wishes to address our deputies today, the government with a single question. We've heard a lot of information over the past few weeks about how the administration-territorial system in Ukraine is going to change, which is going to be replaced by 400, 56 district administrations, councils, and, in fact, only 100 areas in Ukraine, areas that will be reduced radically, and in each area there will be 3-4, a maximum of 5 district hospitals, everything else will be closed. So we only have one question, someone can give us an answer from the vast majority, from a coalition that's actually going to happen at the district level. What areas will be left? What will happen to those areas that will be eliminated and transformed into two or three united territorial communities? What would be the status of these district centers that had previously had the status of the district center? What will really happen to this medical reform that we have been told about repeatedly? We see recent trends, statements by individual deputies, representatives of ministries, that, in fact, the district hospitals will close down, the FAPs will close down, the infirmary will close, and they will remain in each area in essentially three, up to five district hospitals. How do you get out of a small village in two or three areas in old fast cars to grandmothers who have to get emergency care? How can you prove that if you have a stroke, you have a heart attack? If we were to give birth, how do we get this person in two or three areas and provide him with quality medical care? All these questions are not answered by anyone. So we do propose that on Friday we listen to the government, listen to the profile ministers, what is actually going to happen, what is the logic of these administrative actions. And the second is that we're confused. In the last few weeks, we've heard a lot of different information about what's actually going to happen with tariffs. Before the election, everyone promised to lower the tariffs. Now we're hearing information that, by the end of the year, electricity tariffs will be increased by 30 to 40 percent at a minimum, and again from the new year. We hear information that local authorities have already started raising municipal tariffs, and procedures have been initiated. This means that from January 1st, municipal tariffs will increase throughout virtually Ukraine. We suggest we listen to the government, we listen to the government's profile ministers, what's really going on with the tariffs, which will be the tariff policy by the end of the year and 1 January. And is it still possible to cut tariffs, as you promised before the elections? We all promised for the election, and I know for a fact that there is a possibility of lowering tariffs, only no one, sorry, practically does. There's a lot of populism, but there's no concrete action. We suggest we listen to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u14	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Stanisław Ivanovich Vakarczuk, deputy faction of the Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u15	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, welcome everyone to yesterday's Day of Protector of Ukraine. I hope that we, and in this room, will defend the interests of our nation every day. For the past few weeks, there have been various conversations about our security and international policies. Thank God, today, at the Conciliation Council, the Supreme Council has put security first and has arranged to hear here, in this room, the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Security, and on the issues of international negotiations today with our partners in the first place in the future of the "Normandian format". I would like to urge everyone in this room once again to realize that this is our shared responsibility, our responsibility for Ukraine's future. Ukraine today is waging a war, a war with a cruel, deceitful and prepared aggressor, and Ukraine must also be strong and prepared. And to remember that our interests, Ukraine's interests, in fact, will not be protected by anyone but ourselves. Yes, we very much thank our European partners for the support they have given us over the past few years, and we look forward to further support from our European partners, including in the 'normal format'. But we realize that even they may have their own interests, geopolitical and other interests that do not always match the interests of Ukraine. We stress that the interests of Ukraine, which today is at war, and in terms of the preservation of sovereignty, and in terms of the preservation of the security of Ukraine's citizens, are out of line. That is why we welcome the decision of most of the factions of the Supreme Council to support our idea of creating a temporary special commission that would form a joint position of the Supreme Council on our international policy, first of all in relation to the conflict in Donbassa, and together with the President and the government has formed a clear state-level consolidated position and would take responsibility for the decision of Ukraine's future, which would not be difficult. This is the responsibility of the Supreme Council and this is the responsibility of the President. Let us take this responsibility together, go ahead and remember that the war - waging country must win this war on its own terms and thus bring peace to its land. Everything else will be a loss of sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u16	Thank you. The word is given to Germany by Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u17	Hand it over to the town hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u18	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u19	I'm handing over Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u20	"The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u21	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, Your Honorable Presidium, Honorable People's Deputies! Recent sociological surveys indicate that the president of Ukraine, Zelensky and his government, are losing confidence and support for Ukrainian citizens because they are unable to recreate peace. The Opposition Platform for Life states that the restoration of peace in Donbas remains the task of all branches of government. The only possible path for this purpose is the direct negotiations in the Kiev-Donetsk-Lugansk-Moscow and the implementation of the Minsk Treaties. In the face of a crisis of power, when the President of Ukraine and his government, in carrying out the demands of the International Monetary Fund, carry out a policy of tariff genocide, smother small and medium-sized businesses with new taxes, try to sell Ukrainian land and strategic enterprises, when the President and his team are actually bending under radical nationalists when Prime Minister Honcharuk shares in fascist symbolism, for which our opposition platform for life demands his resignation, the only leader of change can be the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Parliament depends on the adoption of the Elections Act, the Amnesty Act, the introduction of the Donbas Special Status Act, the amendment of the Constitution of Ukraine. To do the people’s will and return peace to Ukraine requires more than 70 percent of our fellow countrymen. "The opposition platform for life" states: refusing to execute the Minsk treaties, the construction of the Dustenka-Jacinuk Wall, which isolates Ukrainian citizens from each other, is a real surrender and betrayal. Implementation of the Minsk Accords is the only way to bring peace and development to Ukraine, to claim it on the world stage as a reliable and predictable partner. Powerful nations do not disperse in their territories, and more importantly, their citizens. And first of all, we need to think about how to get our citizens back to Donbas because of their consciousness, how to get Donbas back to Ukraine and Ukraine to Donbas. "The opposition platform for life" advocates the establishment of peace through the implementation of the Minsk Accords. In the Supreme Council, we are ready to support all the laws aimed at establishing peace and call for the will of most Ukrainians to be done by all the parliamentary forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u22	Mikita Ruslanovich, the "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u23	Thank you. Your Honor, my fellow Members, as you know, our parliamentary delegation was taking part in the outgoing session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which I wanted to bring to your attention in a few words right now. First of all, I want to thank all the members of the delegation of our Supreme Council. I want to say that the delegation worked as the only team, despite being made up of representatives of various political forces. I just want to say thank you in a name right now. Mr. Arthur Gerasimov, whose work in the towers, which is totally strictly pro-Ukrainian, has shown that we are not changing our course to maintain the sanctions pressure against the Russian Federation. I want to thank Mrs. Olga Belkovy of the Fatherland faction, who raised the issue of the dangers of the North Stream 2 project at our international meetings. And the fact that it poses dangers not only for Ukraine but also for the energy dependency of all Europe poses problems for world security in general. I want to thank Mr. Sergey Rachmaninov. And, of course, his colleagues, Vadim Galajchuk, Vladimir Vronov, and Paul Froll. We had a very fruitful discussion with the President of the Parliamentary Assembly, Mr. George Ceretelli. He's a supporter of Ukraine. He has demonstrated his acceptance of the tasks of our delegation and the tasks that will arise before the OSCE in general on the possible settlement of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, the Russian-Ukrainian war. But also in the context of if there is no progress, if there is no progress by our opponents, it means what position the OSCE will take. We also held very meaningful meetings with the American delegation, the United States delegation and the United States Senate, the head of the British delegation and the head of the Swedish delegation. I would like to stress that all of our colleagues at the Parliamentary Assembly of the United Nations have testified that it is very important for the Ukrainian side to show a proactive position on the issue of de-escalation. Our colleagues noted the importance of President Vladimir Zelensky's initiatives. Ukraine must take a proactive position. He has to make his own proposals, his own vision of how this conflict can be settled. We stressed, for our part, at all meetings, that the principle of "security is first," that is, the enforcement of the security provisions of the Minsk Treaties, remains an absolute priority of Ukraine. I also want to point out that we raised our voices, especially that Vadim Galajchuk, about the plight of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic Church.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u24	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u25	The Crimean Tatar community in Crimea, the violation of human rights in occupied areas both in Donbas and in Crimea. And we pointed out, and we stressed to the Russian delegation exactly what we're going to do, despite what's going on at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u26	Thank you. The word is given to Bilkovo Olza Valentinovni. Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, I'd like to join all of the country's supporters in saying hello. But at the same time, I would like us here in the Supreme Council not to be silent that yesterday, exactly on the Day of the Protector of the Motherland, thousands of supporters of the country, including the surfaces and avenues of the capital of Ukraine, Kiev. I would like you and I not to keep our eyes closed just for one reason that we, like Ukraine, have already trodden on these rakes, not once. When people have no chance of expressing their opinion, of influencing government decisions, people remain, according to the constitutions of almost all countries of the world, the only right to protest. But I am convinced that the new President of Ukraine, the new Supreme Council, even the new government are fundamentally different from all previous authoritarian, non-democratic regimes because you want to hear people. I want to believe it as much as they all do. And that's why I want you and I to mention that one of the first bills that the new President of Ukraine was talking about. He was talking about the Law on Referendum, about the peoples of the land. And if we literally mention what he said in his program, he said that every important decision in the country would be made on the basis of a referendum where people would express their will. You know, this isn't just about the President's program. I can tell you, with political experience, that this is a new country management system. Do the will of people in electronic form, in any other form, but do not deprive them of their right to influence decision-making in their own state. And if people have gone out on the street, it's the first one, maybe not the strong one, but the bell. And so I propose that we all define as a priority, together with the President of Ukraine, a bill to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum. And you have to take it in the kind of turbulence that the Supreme Council is demonstrating in order not to allow any more fields, no more victims, no more shots, no more killings, no more blood. And to put to the referendum the questions that are questionable today: both land issues and the issue of privatization of strategic property, such as gas transport systems, such as pipelines, such as Energoatoma, as 124 Ucrobanprom enterprises, from which the ban on privatization has recently been lifted. We're a country that can't lose interest. And I heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u28	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u29	And I heard that today Mr. Stefanchuk said that the referendum would be introduced into the People's Landing Act. We can't wait for this, the country's roaring, which means the Referendum Act needs to be passed first. I sincerely wish the new President and our Supreme Council success, but do not make mistakes that have already led to the wrong results. I believe that wisdom in this room will prevail. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u30	Thank you. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u31	Glory to Ukraine! Can't you all answer with a chorus? I'm going to ask that we say it as a parliament. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u32	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to especially welcome our supporters from the volunteer community with the patron festival. Because at a time when some people want to play with the white capitulation flag, it is our defenders from different backgrounds that we are finally sitting in this Parliament today, and each of us has a chance to live in our own Ukrainian state. In view of this, I would like to point out that there have been protests all over Ukraine, tens of thousands of people have gone out on the streets of their cities, calling out, "No surrender, the glory of the nation!".. And I would like to point out that they were people from different backgrounds, different professions, from different parties and organizations, and in this context it's particularly disgusting to hear that all these shares are claimed to be paid, organized and somehow made to discredit some of the processes that are taking place in the state. Today people’s will is being discredited. They try to discredit the right of people to speak up in defense of their state. And it seems to me that since we are a parliamentary-presidential republic, as an ari parliament, we especially need to listen to the position of the people who went out because power, especially the President, does not hear them. And in this context, I condemn a bunch of individual journalists and mass media who are trying to manipulate information and they don't want to show the real reasons why people went out. And the real reason is to protect your country. We also turn to the majority and more than once. Protecting our warriors is not just a word, but it's also an adoption of draft laws that will protect them, especially in the social sphere. So I'm very much asking that the day-to-day drafts that provide social protection for our soldiers, such as the granting of martial law to our volunteers, be finally included in the agenda. I also condemn, and it is extremely disgusting, that security and defence issues become part of a big political game. And in particular, the statement made by the Foreign Minister Pristik that in order for us to win, we have to cut pensions by a third and pay for a third is pure water manipulation. For some reason, all the previous years, without all these shortcuts, we have ensured the security of our nation, and today someone wants to lie down under Putin’s feet. Not Ukraine is to withdraw its troops today, but Moscow is to take its army, its troops from two and a half thousand square miles [two and a half thousand km] of Ukrainian land. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u33	Heroic glory! Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider the draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 2101-6). Dear colleagues, I would like to consider the above-mentioned ruling on a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. Short-term procedure, short-term procedure, please support and vote. [[13:08:48]] For 219 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me whether this procedure needs to be discussed? It's a draft decision. I just read, unfortunately, you're not listening, Ruslan. Draft Order on Change in the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 2101-6) issued to you. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear colleagues, should it be discussed? No, it's not. So I'm putting to the vote the issue of adoption as a basis and as a whole the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 2101-6, on the amendment to the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please support and vote. [[13:09:56]] For 251 Against 0, hold on to 65. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the activities of judicial authorities (registration number 1008). The report is given to the deputy head of the Legal Policy Committee, Bozek Valeri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, today we can start the most important reform for the Ukrainians - the court. To your attention, Bill 1008, which provides for amendments to Ukraine's individual laws regarding the activities of judicial authorities. I would like to point out right away that this bill was submitted to the Supreme Council by President Volodymyr Alexander Zelensky of Ukraine and was called upon to initiate as soon as possible changes in the organization of the activities of the High Qualification Commission of Judges, the High Council of Justice and the formation of the judiciary. I stress that the 1008 is called upon to address, first of all, one of the key problems of judicial authority: the work of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine. This body will be re-loaded and enhanced by the participation of international experts. A total of 330 proposals and amendments to the bill were submitted to the committee by the legal entities of the legislative initiative, which resulted in the committee’s consideration of 52 proposals and amendments. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy has done a rather difficult task of preparing this project for the second reading and acceptance of it by you as a whole. The meetings of both the relevant subcommittee and the committee were open to the general, there were discussions, there were comments, there were discussions. It should be noted that the issue of judicial administration remains relevant, even though we have been living in the process of judicial reform for some year now and are of great interest, and therefore require decisive action and difficult decisions. Appropriately, the adoption of this bill will result in changes on the principles of the activities of the High Council of Justice, the formation of the High Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine, the competitive selection of judges and their qualifications, and the consideration of disciplinary complaints against judges. Thus, the legislative improvement of the above - mentioned issues will allow the establishment of the judicial corps to be reestablished and the credibility of the people in the judicial system ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Policy asks you to support this bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u35	Thank you, Your Honor. Let us turn to the consideration of rights that were not included during the consideration of the bill and its preparation for the second reading. No. 2, Bujansky. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Edit 3, Bujansky. National MP Bujansky, are you insisting on the papers?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u36	I'll leave it at the end. I think we'll go through the repairs, and I'll give it with a motive if there's a request. No. 23, Jurchishin. Amendment number 24, Puzanov. Amendment number 25, Alekseyev. He insists. Please turn on Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, this right to reduce the number of Supreme Court judges from 200 to 100. This must be one of the key rights of this law. The thing is, it actually looks like they want to reduce the number of Supreme Court judges, and in fact, what's going on is restricting Ukrainian citizens' access to justice. Since the Supreme Court is now fairly overloaded, and the Supreme Court has managed to get around to handling cases for a year and a half when they've considered all the cases that have been left behind. If we double now, we double the number of judges, we're going to have a crazy reboot, and people are going to be years ahead of a final decision in the Supreme Court for years. So I would like to vote on this right, to support and leave exactly the same number of judges, 200 judges of the Supreme Court, which is now in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm betting on a vote of 25. Oh, I'm sorry, the position of the committee on the 25th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u39	The committee's supported position, adopted in the first reading, was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I place the number 25 of the Alekseiv People's Deputies on the vote, was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:15:46]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 26 of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u41	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, the Fatherland faction has always advocated a profound and systematic reform of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But today no one has explained in this House why the judges of the Supreme Court have been reduced from 200 to 100. The previous colleague noted that there would be tremendous stress. Colleagues, today, according to the Supreme Court, there are over 70,000 cases in the Supreme Court, 70,000 cases, and 360 cases go to the Supreme Court every day. If there is absolutely no motivation now, without reducing the grounds for the case, without introducing other reform mechanisms, the Supreme Court will simply reduce the number of judges, there will be 3,500 cases and 360 cases a day for one college of workload. Therefore, of course, it may be necessary to reduce the number of judges of the Supreme Court, but at the same time to reduce the grounds for cassation, but at the same time to change the grounds for their consideration. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is actually an offer today not to shorten the Supreme Court, but to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a systematic bill on reforming the entire judicial system, the Supreme Court as part of it, and to explain to the people's deputies and citizens of Ukraine why this is happening why the judges of the Supreme Court are being reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u42	Give me 10 seconds, but, buddy, you're out of line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u43	I'm on a timer. My colleagues, in fact, are very concerned about this bill by the Council of Europe. You know, Secretary-General Maria Peichinovich-Buritch went to the Venice Commission on this bill, including this standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u44	Do you insist on voting on this? Committee position, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u45	Edit rejected. The fact is that the number of judges in this case is not going to be affected in any way is going to be in the further proposed procedural filters that will reduce the load. That is why the committee came to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u46	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 26 of the national MP Vlasenka. Edit is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:35]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 27th Amendment, Sphinx. Is there a National MP in the Hall? None. Amendment number 28, Knjazević. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We now have the head of the Supreme Court, Valentina Danesewska. And yet, as an exception, I would have asked her to give her the floor to discuss this amendment. This is a key right for the Supreme Court and perhaps for the entire judicial system. The rest of the rights are touchy, but they have no direct relationship with the Supreme Court. So, Mr. Head, I would like to ask you now as an exception to allow a representative of another branch of power to speak for this branch of power regarding the reform you are proposing. It would be unfair to deprive the Supreme Court of such an opportunity. There is no other possibility of public speaking to parliamentarians. Sadly, the committee did not hear her. Unfortunately, she was not heard in the public domain. She volunteered to come to us, and, unfortunately, we do not give her such an attempt. So I very much ask you, Mr. Head, it would be very wise and correct as an exception without a vote, just to give the Chief of the Supreme Court a minute to discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u48	Please tell me, will there be a denial in the hall? If not, I propose to give the floor to the Head of the Court of Daneshevska Valentina Ivanovna. Valentina Ivanovna, from the spot, there's a microphone on for you now. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute. Dear colleagues, one minute. Let's just not waste time, dear fellows, as a colleague asked. Please, from the rostrum for a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Valerius Ivanovich, come on. No, dear fellows, wait, you just asked for a minute, now you're coming up and you're saying: 10. We're just going to go through with it. I'm sorry. During the consideration of the matter, statements are not provided for by the Rules unless I am mistaken. Respectful colleagues, respected colleagues, are not provided for by the Rules at all. So let's not, come on. Yeah. Let's be on the right side of everyone. Let us give the floor to the Chief Justice. With your motives, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u49	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. I am truly grateful for my word. But in one minute, of course, it is difficult for me to pass on the view of the judicial system of the proposed standards. And that's probably why I'm focusing on the main thing. I would like to point out here that, with the change of the Supreme Council, with the change of executive branch of power, with the change of the President, the branch of the judiciary is not subject to divorce. And from this rostrum then I will go to the Ukrainians and tell them that 19.5,000 prisoners are awaiting a judicial decision to decide their fate. Four million Ukrainian citizens turn to the courts each year. Two thousand judges are not enough in the judicial system. Not only will the re-launching of the Supreme Court affect the stability of the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u50	Give me another minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u51	Disciplinary procedures that are proposed are reduced, without the ability of the judge to prepare properly, to destroy the independence of the judicial system. And think, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u52	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u53	Does anyone need such a judge in Ukraine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u54	Thank you, Valentina Ivanovna. People's deputy Knjazević. Are you insisting on voting for an amendment? Okay. I'm betting on the vote of the People's Deputy Knazević. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:21]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 29, Lukashev. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u55	Lukashev Alexander, Luganshina. I'd like to speak to my fellow national MPs in that way. That, unlike the Chief Justice, we have not heard from the subject of the legislative initiative or from the committee of reasons, why not reduce the number of judges of the Supreme Court today. Because less than two years have passed since the new Supreme Court is in operation, and there are tremendous shifts in the best direction. In this way, we will completely deprive our citizens of the right to legal protection. For years trials of court cases, complaints of appeal before the Supreme Court will continue. And by the way, I'd like to pay attention to the fact that article 37 of the Court of Justice Act stipulates that there are no more than 200 judges in the Supreme Court, no more than 100 today. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Are you insisting on the right, the vote? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u57	The committee does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u58	I'm betting on the vote number 29 of the Lukasheva People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:25:12]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 30, National Deputy Krulco. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u59	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this room has been discussed repeatedly, including the Chief of the Supreme Court, let's not put the wagon in front of the horse. If we want to reduce the number of judges of the Supreme Court, we need to make appropriate changes to begin with in order to make it procedurally impossible to bring as many complaints to the Supreme Court as it is now. Because if there are 70,000 pending cases in the Supreme Court, where can the number of judges be reduced? Let's think about the load and the quality of this work. So I think it's necessary to start, really, systematically develop the issue of judicial reform, and then do the calculation of how many people fit to work on one job or another. Thank you. Please support my amendment and listen to my colleagues for the common sense that many national deputies are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u61	The committee does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u62	Ivan Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, Tistik, dear colleague of Kachura, let us see the national deputy Krulka. Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 30 of National Deputy Krulka. Please identify and vote, the committee didn't support her. [[13:27:09]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 31, Osadchuk. Don't insist. Amendment number 32, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, the reduction in the number of judges of the Supreme Court is a violation of the independence of the judiciary. This is clearly stated in a letter from the Ambassador of the European Union to Ukraine. This is clearly stated in a letter from the Ambassador of Canada. This is clearly stated in a letter published on the website of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This bill was referred to the Venice Commission for processing. And they all say the same thing: interference with the judicial branch of power by parliament is unacceptable. Neither the Supreme Court judges nor the public environment nor even the Council of Judicial Reform, which was established before the President, have taken part in the drafting of the bill. We are absolutely convinced that this bill is premature and cannot be voted on today. And the reduction of the judges of the Supreme Court is double premature without changing to the trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u64	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u65	And last of all, I wanted to say that I should give the judge of the Supreme Court. The Presidents of the Supreme Court will speak for one minute on the issue of judicial reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Are you insisting on voting your turn? I can't see, National Deputy, do you insist? What is the 32 - way position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u67	32rd overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u68	32 revisions, the committee proposes to reject. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote and determine. [[13:29:23]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Amendment number 3, National Deputy Calchenko. Are you insisting? People's MP Calchenko! Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment 34, People's Deputy of Bujansky. Are you insisting? People's MP Bujansky, 34 papers, do you insist? Yes, it doesn't. Thank you. Next. It's number 35. People's MP Makarov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is number 41, National MP Puzanov. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 42, National Deputy Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u69	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Colleagues, as a national deputy, I have experienced two judicial reforms here called judicial reform. As soon as they were finished, everyone knew that the first one ended in Maidan in 2014, and the second one ended in Presidential elections in 2019. We're now being asked, in fact, to assign the High Council of Justice to unconstitutional, non-constitutional functions for it as a confirmation of a series of acts by the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. There is no such constitutional authority in the High Council of Justice. I also want to agree with my colleagues that, in fact, the leading institutions of the Council of Europe will now be considering this bill, I mean, first of all, the Venice Commission and, in fact, it would be an offer to wait today. postpone consideration of this bill and await the conclusions of the Venice Commission, so that it is at least synchronized in some way with our international obligations, not that we accept everything we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u70	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u71	The committee did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u72	Are you insisting on the right, on the vote? I'm betting on the vote of 42 people's deputies, Vlasenka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:43]] For-90 No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Amendment number 43, National Deputy Krulco. Don't insist. Edit 44, Makarov. Don't insist. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Yes, Knyazevich. Oh, you insist, don't you? Edit 44, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u73	I'd like to finish. Continue its statement that contempt for the court begins when one minute is given in the Supreme Council Hall to the Chief of the Supreme Court to discuss judicial reform. The Supreme Court, other institutions were not involved in the drafting of the bill, nor did they give sufficient expression to representatives of the public sector and representatives of international organizations. Once again, the adoption of this bill without detailed, comprehensive discussion, without the conclusion of the Venice Commission, is premature. I am convinced that today we can send him to read again, to await the conclusions of the Venice Commission, to await the conclusions of the Commission on Judicial Reform before the President of Ukraine and to return to the rights and accept it as a whole by reaching consensus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u75	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u76	Are you insisting on the right, on the vote? I'm betting on the vote number 44 of the people's MP Makarov. Edit is not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:41]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 45, National Deputy Knazević. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor, for giving the floor to the Chief Justice. This amendment about how sometimes the declared goal differs from those mechanisms of achievement that would seem to be. If the purpose of the bill is to speed up, including qualifications, in the procedure of qualification evaluations, it is not clear why the Higher Qualifying Commission could now approve the forms of the application for selection of judges and the form of the poll, the application and the questionnaire, they should now agree with the Supreme Council of Justice. Think about it for months. On such basic things, instead of speeding up, we will make this procedure much more difficult. We're adding in time an extra lie of time. Moreover, given that these are different bodies with different constitutional powers, the Supreme Council of Justice cannot agree on any documents relating to qualification. This contradicts her legal, pro-constitutional nature. So I ask you to support my amendment and delete this rule as one that is contrary to the Constitution and complicates the procedure of qualification evaluation. Otherwise, we must recognize that the procedure that is is correct and that it is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u78	Give me 10 seconds to finish. Everything? Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u79	The committee did not support the proposed revision and decided to leave it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u80	Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote number 45 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:32]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment 47, national deputy Jurchisin. Don't insist. 48 – Knazevitch. He insists. Please turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u81	Well, that's a continuation of the discussion. Any document, including a draft order for the selection exam, a project of some order for the examination is a small part of the qualification, because it's about a whole range of exams, other qualified procedures that are provided for in the selection of judges. And this tiny little document also needs to be accepted by the High Council of Justice. Friends, well, we're going to get to the point that the Higher Qualifying Commission will not be able to take any steps as an independent, in fact, constitutional body, and will have to agree with another constitutional body whose authority does not include the issue of monitoring the activities of the Higher Qualifying Commission. In view of this, I ask you to consider what we will have on our way out. On the way out, we're going to have that qualified evaluations will take years, not months, but years. Is that the purpose of the bill? Because if it's not, it means that the procedure that is now is absolutely consistent with logic and the wishes that we've put before the Higher Qualifying Commission, not with such rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u82	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u83	The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u84	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 48 of the People's Deputy Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:37:28]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Amendment 49, Aleksiev. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, while continuing my colleagues' opinion on the formation of a High Qualification Commission of Judges, I would like to point out the following. First, when the Head of the Supreme Court comes out of the rostrum and tells us that we have 2,000 judges on the system who are underprivileged, we are now trying to reduce the number of members of the Higher Qualification Commission from 16 to 12, that is, to make it even slower to choose. Secondly, I would like to point out that the Venice Commission, which is the advisory body of the Council of Europe, approved judicial reform and it was part of the representative mandate for the Higher Qualification, in general in the judiciary, that most judges there should be elected judges. That's the law. And it's also very important that in the Higher Qualifying Commission, this law clears the representation of lawyers, i.e. the lawyers' quotas will no longer be in the Higher Qualifying Commission, but lawyers always represent Ukrainian citizens in court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u87	The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u88	Do you insist on voting? I can't see. I'm betting on the vote number 49 of the Alekseiv People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. [[13:39:04]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 50, Vlasenko. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have not been explained why we should reduce the number of judges, nor have we been explained why we should hand over part of the CDC's powers to the High Council of Justice, nor have we been told why there should be a reduction of the members of the CDC to 12 people out of 16. They may need to be shortened, but explain why. Could it be easier to pass these powers on to the head of the largest parliamentary faction? And all that's going to happen is that one person is going to decide everything. Not chosen by judges, as this is indeed required by the recommendations of the Venice Commission, but, well, they will also tell us that this will be easier. In doing so, indeed, the VCC’s mandate to select judges does not drop. The mandate of the WCC to consider a number of issues related to disciplinary responsibility is not reduced. So nothing happens from the point of view of authority, but the number of people are offering to shorten us by making another clot in the justice system. So again, at least explain from the committee why 16 to 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u90	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u91	Committee position: rejected. But, Sergey Volodymyrovich, you're a member of the Legal Policy Committee, and we discussed it together on the committee, and you know why and why the committee made that decision, you took part in the vote. The second reading does not provide for such an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u92	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the committee is commenting on what it deems necessary. Unfortunately, I can't comment on the committee. National MP Vlasenko, do you insist on voting? Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee did not support the amendment of the 50th National MP Vlasenko. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:22]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Edit 51, Knyazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u94	Dear Mr. Golovo, when you announced the bill, you read its name quite correctly - regarding amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the activities of the judiciary. It's more accurate. But if you look at it, the committee decided to change it to a second reading. I have the impression that he decided to change because essentially everything related to judicial administration was cooled down. Because in fact, the principle of judicial administration is constitutional and which, including those enshrined in Ukraine's international legal obligations, provides that the organs of judicial administration, i.e. the adjacent judicial institutions, are formed in mandatory form at the expense of representatives of judicial self-government. And the organs of self - rule of the judiciary are the assembly of judges, which was the main source, as it were, of the formation of the Supreme Qualification of Judges. Some did not like the meeting of judges, some did not like the lawyers, who were another constitutional source of the formation of judicial authorities, and they cleaned up the meeting of lawyers. A meeting of representatives of the scientific legal institutions was arranged. They only left what they wanted to leave behind. Thus, to me, this principle is deeply in conflict with the constitutional principle of the formation of organs of government. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u96	The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u97	Are you insisting on the right, on the vote? I'll bet you 51 people's deputies to vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:43:05]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 52, Makarov. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u98	You know, colleagues, it looks like a farce when a person, a national MP, our colleague, is filing an application, setting it up, speaking in a session room, and the committee's representative just dry answers -- rejected. And it cannot explain why this rule ever appeared in this bill, why it was rejected. No human can explain the motivation for reducing the number of members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. No one can explain why we ignore the recommendations of our international partners, who recommend that representatives of the judicial self-government bodies form a Higher Qualification Commission of Judges at least half. I am convinced that both lawyers and representatives of law schools should participate. I understand that they should be tested in the same way as the judges. But it is the representatives of the judicial self - government that must be part of this commission. And shortening now is premature.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u99	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u100	The committee did not support this amendment. And once again, Oleg Anatolyovich, you're the secretary of this committee and you've made your decision, and you've also taken part in the vote. The committee did not support this amendment. And you participated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u101	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, come on. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? Okay. I'm betting on the vote of 52 people's deputies, Makarov. The amendment was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:24]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 53, National Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 55, Babi. Don't insist. Amendment number 56, Jurchishin. He insists. Please turn on the Yurchin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u103	Yes, thank you very much, very simple correction actually. It is now required to participate in a 15 - year competition in the legal profession. Actually, the difference between 10 years and 15 years is small, but it will expand the competition. And I want to stress that this competition is going to be more competitive. And it's very important, I stress, to involve our international partners in the work. We ask them to help because half of them will form commissions. But if we do not take their opinion into account, consider whether our international partners are delegating people to these committees. So I support and suggest that now, after going to the end of the text, you send it back to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u105	The committee is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u106	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 56 of the national deputy of Jurchisin. Please identify and vote. Irina Volodymyrna, with motive, at the end. I'll give you my word at the end. [[13:46:59]] For-86 Amendment number 57, National Deputy Krulco. Don't insist. Amendment number 58, Germany. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that the fifth reform has been underway since 2002. The fifth reform of the judicial system. This is not reform. This is essentially the usurpation of the judicial branch of power. You just look, I'd like to ask, read, to think about the basis for the statute of the Law on the Judiciary to be amended by a bylaw that is not subjective. That's the first one. And second of all. The people must also know that you, colleagues today, look at the gate at the Supreme Court, and you will see there the two-headed Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Court. We've reformed to the pen. We don't think about people. I would like to see how it relates to the Constitution, access to justice. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u108	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u109	And so, by insisting on my amendment, I ask my colleagues not to support this law at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u110	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u111	Edit is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u112	Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote of 58 German national deputies, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:01]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 59, Puzanov. None. Amendment number 60, Calchenko. Will you insist on your right? No, it's not. Germany, number 63. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that today, when we decide on the issue of judicial reform, we have not heard this power. That power, which cannot protect itself and cannot, does not have the right to exist. And so I would like you, lawyers in particular, to look at this day, in fact, at the usurpation of the judicial branch of power, the usurpation of the creation of the totalitarian state, that's what this is about. You see, and the formation of these committees, and the formation of judicial administrations. Why do they solve this issue without them? Look at what Europe is saying today, and about the number of stores, and about my own profession, so I'm supporting my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u114	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u115	The committee is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u116	Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote number 63 of the German National MP. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:52]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 64, Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, look, it is proposed in the bill that people who have committed crimes in the past be allowed to be an arbitrator to the people who go into the courtroom and these auxiliary bodies. It's unacceptable. Therefore, it is suggested that whoever in general had the fact of committing a deliberate crime had no right to be an arbitrator in this matter. It's like this, by the way, peace practice, not the Ukrainian spill. And that's why I support it. And once again, what I want to say is, look, we've come to the point that human, human, personnel, human policy, the formation of the judiciary is decided by a group of people, representing from the legislative branch of power, I mean the authors of the laws, and that's why they're being carried out. Let's not let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u118	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u119	The committee is not supported. But the norm itself needs to be edited, which is that in the committee's wording, the word "corruption" should be changed to "corruption" or "corruption-related".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u120	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote number 64 of the German People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. Edit is not supported by the committee. [[13:52:46]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Amendment 68, Osadchuk. Don't insist. And you're going to insist on your work, aren't you? Amendment number 66, Bujansky. Don't insist. Amendment number 67, Germany. Don't you insist? Thank you. 68, Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that once again the issue of interference with the statutory law on the status of judges and justice is still at stake. You will recall that for young colleagues who first came to the Ukrainian parliament, I would like to say that the Constitutional Court has made three decisions on three occasions, three decisions on this subject, including from the budget law, and that it is not possible to resolve the issue by budgetary law of amending other laws. The same applies to statutory laws, and the law in question is statutory. That's why I would have asked, my fellow Members, and it was on the committee, to support 12 or 11 members of the committee to exclude this law, a bill in general, from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u122	Thank you. Position. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u123	I would like the rapporteur to confirm the fact that there was no place for such a vote on the Committee on the Elimination of the Law on Status.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u125	It is 68 revisions that are not confirmed by the committee. But, Vasil Ivanovich, there remains a valid drafting of the law under which amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges can only be introduced by a draft Act amending the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. Really. But these changes are taken into account at the beginning. That is, the chairman does not announce them in this regard. I thought they were accounted for. And your 68th isn't about what you just announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u126	Do you insist on voting? You insist on everything equally. Okay. Amendment 68 of the German National MP is not considered by the committee, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:55:37]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 69, Krulko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u127	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. To be honest, I saw different answers in this rostrum when the second reading was being considered. Sometimes they were completely inadequate, sometimes they were good. But when there is no explanation why the committee acts in one way or another. That's the first time I've met. So I would still like the amendments that we're making, the person who's reporting from the Committee's position, to give us a basis as national MPs and society. It's important. We don't do public activity here, we work in the legislative process. So I'm asking that we somehow respect each other. And on this particular amendment, there's a request, by the way, it's going to be very much in the subject that the Higher Qualification of Judges in their own Rules itself determine ethical rules of conduct, and we didn't impose it on the level of the law. Please explain why this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u128	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u129	The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u130	Do you insist on voting for 69? Okay. I'm betting on a vote of 69 people's deputies, Krulka. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:14]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Amendment 70, Alekseyev. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, this right applies to the transfer of powers to the High Council of Justice and to the formation of a High Qualifying Commission of Judges. The point is, as my colleague Vlasenko has said, is that this is an unconstitutional non-constitutional function with regard to the High Council of Justice. The balance of the judiciary is moving. And by the way, why write it like that in the law? If you want to cancel the High Qualifying Commission at all, cancel it, make it the Department of the High Council of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are you insisting on your right? Are you insisting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u133	The committee did not support the committee's decision to leave the text unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u134	I'm betting on the vote number 70 of the Alekseiv People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. The committee didn't support her. [[13:58:33]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 71 of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone. And I think this is the last amendment, and then we close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u135	Can I have the timer back?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u136	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u137	Timer back. Because you were talking, not me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u138	Start the minute again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u139	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, you know, there's absolutely no reason why there's been an unexplained decrease in the number of members of the CDC. There is absolutely no justification, no explanation for the reduced number of Supreme Court judges. There is absolutely no reason, there is now an unexplained change in the appointment of the members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. Absolutely no one can motivate why this is happening. So I don't want to think about it, but, frankly, it all looks to me, you know, like trying to control the judicial system in the Supreme Court person, the Higher Qualifications Commission and the High Council of Justice. I remind you once again that this bill has already been submitted by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe to the Venice Commission. My colleagues, unfortunately, we will get a negative conclusion on this bill because this bill contradicts all the previous conclusions of the Venice Commission. And then what are we going to do? Will we then apologize, make changes? Let's not go that way. Let's put the second reading back, get Venice's conclusion, and make this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u140	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u141	The committee didn't support it. The committee's decision is to leave the text unchanged.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u142	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 71 of the national MP Vlasenka. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:34]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, our time of the morning session is over. Oh, you. One minute, one minute. The word is given to Ruslan Alexiovich Stefanchuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, one announcement. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kopilenko Aleksandra Ljubimovitch as part of the political party's deputy faction "Serve of the People". Welcome, Alexander Ljubimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening will begin at 4:00. Thank you.
