ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u1	So, dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the registration in the evening session. I'd like all of you to come into the hall. I'm asking Victor Halasyuk to come to me. So, colleagues, take up jobs. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[16:02:10]] 356 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have put into order the daily series of important bills and, by law, after lunch, we can move on to their consideration. The vote itself showed how high the mobilization is around those laws. And I'm now in the sequence that we've accepted, and I'm going to announce it. We are going to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, concerning the Single State Register of War Veterans (9508). An important, unifying bill to support Ukrainian war veterans And so, colleagues, now I'm putting to the vote a motion to consider it in a simplified manner. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[16:05:23]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Before I invite the reporter, I address all my colleagues from all the factions. I was approached by a group of deputies who insist that we move Law 9331 to a quicker consideration. It's about renaming the trial to Crimea. And it's actually a technical bill, but it's very important to our deputies who are today from Crimea. 9331. I'm asking you to study it, and after one of the bills, I'm going to move it. But so that you can process it so that you can learn, I'm announcing today and now that you can study the essence of this bill within half an hour. 9331, he's in the daytime, I'll ask him to move closer. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Bill 9508 was developed by our committee with the Ministry of Veterans. Thank you all for setting up this ministry, it's already working, all parliamentarians. The main task of the newly created Department of Veterans is to ensure that state social guarantees are given to all without exception to veterans. However, no department today can say the exact number of veterans. The State Department for Veterans kept only a register of ATO participants. According to what we have gathered today, there are about 1.2 million veterans of war in Ukraine. But this figure is not final, and today there is not a single figure that can say exactly how many of us are at war. So there are about 360,000 participants in the ATO and OSS. Without a single information base for veterans and their needs, it is not possible to provide systematic and effective national policies. give social policy in the field of social protection for veterans. Thus, Bill 9508 proposes the creation of a single national register of war veterans. The Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine will be responsible for its formation and management. The procedure for accessing and using register information will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Creating a register will first allow you to set up a clear accounting of veterans and determine their needs. Secondly, quickly take the administration, the management decision to strengthen their social protection. The Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities recommends the adoption of Bill 9508 as a whole as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u3	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, this is a complete read, and three minutes of questions are coming up. I'm asking you to record a question to the committee head, please. Victor Shevchenko, please. He's handing over Musia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u4	Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalstina, Red Town. Dear reporter, please tell me if this database will be integrated in general. Maybe some database system should be created? And that's how we create databases for every disease, every disability, every participant, every person. Should we not consider some systemized database linked to an individual tax code, for example? Because it's not hard, every player in combat, every participant in the war, every one of them has an individual number. Or are we always making things up, inventing things for the sake of the process, or is it easier to do something unique for the country in general, and solve all the problems with all the tips? Would you please say your point of view?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u5	First, the Committee on Veterans and the Ministry of Veterans of Ukraine are responsible for the veterans of our state. Secondly, we already have, in fact, large bases, these are tax payers' bases. But to know the number of veterans to know how much the state spends on them, how much more money it takes to understand some statistics, you have to make a separate base for veterans. When the military is in the army, then demobilized, his card should be transferred immediately to the Department of Veterans, where all his diseases will be written about. Then you can have quality rehabilitation, then you can say qualitatively that these services will be for people. And the state-wide base, yes, we have to make them too. And a veteran base is going to be a segment of a state-wide base, that's the first step to go on. And in general, I fully agree with you that we have to systematize everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u6	Please, Melniczuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u7	Sergey Melniczuk, non-fractional. That's my question. Because the Ministry of Social Policy already has a database, and they already have all the veterans in charge, and they have all their data on disease, and so on. There are those who, let's say who are disabled, there's also data on disabled people when they come in and confirm their disability. So this is all at the Ministry of Social Policy. Why create another? On the other hand, I'm in favour, because a bunch of those people who got exactly the status, there's, I think, about a fifth or a sixth of the people who don't have anything to do with fighting and war veterans, and that needs to be reviewed, they need to be broken down into categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u8	There is no clear basis in the Ministry of Social Policy. Yes, there is, indeed, a base for people with disabilities. Well, if you're not disabled, you don't have a base like that. That's the first one. The other one. You said quite correctly that there are a lot of people who are called, you know, "Lieutenant Schmidt's children," who have never been to ATO. This base will give us the opportunity, first of all, to systematize all veterans, because the Department of Veterans is not just for ATO participants, it's for Afghan soldiers, it's for all those who have protected our state. And secondly, the truth is, as far as ATOs are concerned, we're going to be able to figure out who is who. Well, it'll be done together. It's not going to be the right thing to do, it's going to have to be done together. We're the law. There's no such thing in the law. There is no need for the law to be covered with additional text. The Cabinet's ruling will make everything clear under this law, so that we don't change it again every time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u9	Give me time? 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u10	So that we don't do the same job every time, we'll make a register. Believe me, it's better to make it a Kabmin's decision, when time changes, so we don't change the law all the time, we'll change the Kabmin's ruling, because time goes on, and there's always something new coming up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u11	And the final question from Silicone Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u12	I would like to say, Mr. Chairman, that the issue of granting aid to participants in hostilities is one of the most important and priority for the development of the Ukrainian state. I remember very well in 2014, when, in order to help the participants in the fighting, the authorities of local self-government tried to provide them differently with a list of those or other benefits. It's also compensation for residential services, it's also the issuance of land, including under the direction of agriculture. But I have three questions for you. First of all, how long does it take to update this register and make it complete? How do you see a personal data protection system? And thirdly, will each registered wartime participant be able to track the services that were provided to him and verify their status through his personal office? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u13	I'll start with question three. Yes, he can. Our task, both the committee of profile and the Department of Veterans, is to be the only window in the veteran so that he can easily understand what he needed, what he had, and what he needed further. Secondly, I think it's going to be done, in my opinion, about two months, it's going to be a new register. I definitely can't say date, it's like a marker. Secondly, I think it's going to be the minimum cost of the budget. Many donor organizations are willing to help and be willing to invest in this register. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u14	Thank you. So the time for questions is over. Thank you, Mr. Alexander. Now come out from factions and groups. Anyone who intends to take part in the discussion, please hold the record. From the People's Front, Savka Ivan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Glory to Ukraine! The noble Ukrainians! Today this bill, which is under consideration, is this bill that is necessary for our nation. Namely those of the military who are currently protecting our state and those who have served their term of service are in their homes, the veterans of our Ukrainian Armed Forces, the veterans of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who should know first and foremost. Ukraine should know its heroes. And the actions that are currently going through and this bill, which is currently under consideration, is a bill that allows each of us to make every military officer, that is, a veteran of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, so that the people of Ukraine know whether he was, we will speak, in carrying out combat tasks or not, in carrying out combat tasks. That's the first one. The other one. Today, it has been said of itself that the provision of social benefits to military personnel is involved. That's why everyone. in the database must be over. Some information for every military officer regarding the social protection of a military officer, especially a veteran of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where he can go in and see for what he needs, what the state gives him, what the local authorities give him. And besides, according to current legislation, that he wouldn't be in this. I wouldn't be singled out. So we have to do everything we can here, right now, the noble people's deputies, in order for this bill to be passed. And that's why I'm addressing you, dear colleagues, we need to take this bill to see and know, we're going to talk about who's involved in the fighting, and who's coming to talk about it, in order to get a certificate, so it's first for each of us to think about it, and that's why this bill is now being passed. The People's Front, the People's Front faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u16	Thank you, colleagues. "Peter Prashenko's Block" is handing over its time to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, first of all, let me thank all those present for the fact that the issue of national security and defence of Ukraine, the issue of the army, as a rule, unites the session hall. Indeed, there are about 200,000 war veterans and families of dead veterans in Ukraine today, including some 360,000 participants in the United Nations anti - terrorism operation and operation. But at the same time, no department can name the exact number of veterans. And the main task of the newly created Department of Veterans is not only to reconcile this figure, but to provide comprehensive support to our veterans, including psychological rehabilitation. We can start the support when we've done the monitoring, how many veterans we have. And so we would like to thank the Minister, who, along with the committee of profile, one of the first decisions of the newly created ministry, has proposed this bill, which has already been drafted with the veteran organizations. In general, the Ministry is very active in working with both Parliament and with a professional committee, which is very important, and I actually think that creating a register will, in the first place, allow and establish a clear accounting of veterans, and quickly take administrative decisions to strengthen their social protection. But what I'm trying to say is that they need veterans first. Psychological rehabilitation, employment programs, treatment programs. Let's start with the veteran register. And it's important from that point of view that we don't have lies, because after each event, you know, there are real heroes, and there are those who then call themselves what they've been through. Veterans of the Kolchakov movement. So this register of veterans, it'll also allow you to cut off the liesmiths in our veteran movement. Thank you. And I hope that this vote will unite the hall. I urge all colleagues to return after recess to the conference room and support the creation of a single veteran registry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u18	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction, Alexander Danchenko. Danchenko! And after that, it's from the people's deputies. Yeah, from "Willie.".. If you'll excuse me, there'll be Ribczynski from the "will of the people" and then from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u19	Respectful colleagues certainly need to support all the initiatives that are involved in veterans to do so properly, correctly. But the basis for such initiatives is still the elements of electronic governance, namely the creation of new registers, the interaction of such registers. And what we're talking about here is that we need to first sort of sort of electronic communication, radio frequency, and actually the concept of registers. So the Law on Public Electronic Registers today is in the digitization block, but we can't vote in any way, because there are no people in the room. Furthermore, I would like to say that all digital services, including those that should work for veterans, are available on the Internet all over Ukraine. Then our veterans can receive rapid information, get everything they need very quickly. But without the law, the radio frequency bill, which is now in order, and the Electronic Communications Act, it is impossible to develop normal 4G communications in Ukraine and provide electronic services and the Internet throughout Ukraine. So I would like to make sure that the important laws that apply to our veterans are now passed basic laws that will make it very easy to develop all electronic registers, electronic services. So I would like to urge that there really be a high-quality link across Ukraine, to gather together and also to vote today in favour of the Electronic Communications Act, the Radio Frequency Act and the impeccable bill on public electronic registers. This will help you to avoid loving machinations, avoid problems in building, for example, vet registers. This is the base. A lot of people talk about digitisation, and everybody's talking about digital services right now, politics in pre-election campaigns. But unfortunately, we can't get together and vote on the three basic bills. So, of course, by supporting this bill, of course, by supporting it, I want to ask all the national MPs not to display populism, but to really support the digitization of the country, where it will be very easy to do all of this. So I would like to draw your attention to the electronic communications bills, the radio frequency and the public electronic registers that are standing in the room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u20	Thank you. Colleagues, I understand correctly that of all groups and factions. Oh, I'm sorry. Please, the will of the people is Eugene Ribczynski. Please, Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to ask you to gather to vote for this bill, which is very important. Look, we haven't even had a census in years, which is planned for 2020, but the population can wait, and veterans who have lost limbs and health and so on can't wait. So our committee on ATO veterans has decided to pass this bill for the registration of all persons with disabilities, of all veterans, so that they can receive benefits as soon as possible. I would very much like to gather and the factions' heads would like to invite their members so that we can win our 226 votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u22	Thank you. Colleagues, from now on, we have all the representatives of groups and factions speaking, and I ask that you sign up for the debate of the Ukrainian National Deputies. We're going to have nine minutes for these performances. Please sign up. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room of all factions, because in nine minutes there will be a vote on the bill for the creation of a single veteran register. And please, Borislav Bereza, the non-fractional has a word now. Please, Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u23	Mrs. Irina, thank you for being able to say now. I want to say that it's a very important question to pay our debts to those who need the state. What's more, the veteran movement is always in modern Ukraine, it's one of the most important directions. And as a person associated with a very large number, I want to say, I will support it. But I have a question about something else. I want to inform the Supreme Council and I want to inform the Ukrainians that today a ruling by the TSC has been registered that we now want to read an interim report to the Supreme Council. After that, we want the Supreme Council, listening to this, to be able to continue its work or to express its position that it does not allow the TSK to continue its work on the issue of Catherine Gandzük and attacks on public activists. That's why I want to address you, Mrs. Irina, as a member of this TSC that I would like to read this report as soon as possible, to report to the Supreme Council, and so that my colleagues and I will be able to evaluate our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u24	Thank you. And despite the importance of the topic that you're raising right now, I want to pay attention to those who are speaking about what we need to talk about when we discuss a particular bill on the subject of the bill. That's the first one. And the second. Of course, the TSC is running out of time, and I'm confident that this issue of the TSC report will be put into our sessional work as soon as possible. Please, the People's Deputies of Musei. Don't worry, I'll give you a minute. I'll add a minute to make it nine minutes. You have three minutes of words. Please, Mr. Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask from our National Control Party to support this bill as absolutely necessary and timely, considering that, unfortunately, there is no general basis to date that would have long existed in our country, electronic registers of people, and it would have been unnecessary to adopt the relevant bills. But as it doesn't exist, we have to accept it, because really the people who are protecting Ukraine, who are involved in the Moscow-Ukrainian war, and especially the ones who have suffered, we need to give them priority attention, and this register will enable them to provide both social protection and medical rehabilitation, and so on. The only way I can get more attention is by government officials who will draw up regulations so that they don’t happen as with the Ministry of Health’s medical records. Unfortunately, to this day we have what is called eHealth, which is supposed to be an electronic registry, it's not transmitted by Transparency International to the Ministry of Health database, and accordingly these registers have not been protected by the Data Protection Centre. It's a very important thing. Because remember that the enemy works in the territory of Ukraine, including the U.S. And the databases of our fighters, so they wouldn't be stolen, so they wouldn't be able to get in there, and bring their so-called LNR veterans to our database, or the DNR terrorists, or even Moscow terrorists. Therefore, it is essential to consider that such registers have the right to exist only if the information center has given appropriate licenses for the operation of the registers, and these registers should be public, not private, companies that are trying to buy a database of the Ministry of Health. So I certainly believe that this bill will be supported both on the basis and on the whole, but in development, maybe there's two or three more words to add as recommendations to the executive branch of power that will implement this law to take into account the relevant observations that I have said, and the negative experience of the Ministry has not yet spread to our veterans and war participants. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u26	Thank you. Please make the next statement from. National MP, Mikhailo Bondar, your word. Colleagues, I'm asking you to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u27	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, participant in combat. There are a lot of references exactly to me when I come to the county to work, that a participant in combat has, really, a very large number. So in developing this register, I would like to have all the documents that a person has obtained from a wartime participant. Let me give you an example. I have repeatedly written a statement when a person, having been assigned to an OOS or an ATO at that time, was 70 kilometers away from the advance, and in the expedition it was noted that delivery of humanitarian cargo and moral influence on the fighters. And then, when he was there for three days at 70 kilometers, he would come back and get the authority, for example, by being there either a soldier or a prosecutor or something else, and he would get a fighter. I will ask you very much when developing this register to examine clearly where this person has been. If you have to get any testimony from those fighting brothers who were in this unit, where he was assigned, get them accordingly. And, indeed, this list of war brothers is going to go down a lot, because all they have to do is take into account the fighting boys who bloodied and then protected our Motherland instead of coming, photographed, and came home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u28	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to point out that there are two speeches left by Melniczuk Sergey and Levchenko, and then we go to the vote. Colleagues, I very much ask the heads of factions to see who is not here, and to invite them to the hall. In five minutes, we'll move on to the vote. Please, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u29	Sergey Melniczuk, non-fractional. As far as the bill is concerned, yes, it's necessary. And the register needs to be created by the Department of Veterans. But all the data from the Ministry of Social Policy is more likely to concentrate, unite in one register, divide the participants, because there were people who were directly involved in the fighting, and there were people who were far from the front line. Those who do not deserve to be audited should also be audited in the register. Because there are many forgeries and unclean people on hand who have given their certificates at the expense of people who have no bearing on war at all. There are excruciating instances when a separatist who was held in custody with a gun was released to him as a fighter. That's what it is. And I was talking to the secretary of defense. There are people who have illegally received a participant in combat and are now working with the Kiev Administration, which has the seals on their hands, and they're falsifying further documents. And there's nothing going on with the Kyiv administration. The address was -- no one's responding. Now the essence of the law itself. "Transitional positions" tell you that you are. That the Cabinet of Ministers, I'm the law-makers, is due to develop the regulations within a month. Is this time enough to produce these legislative acts? Not to be the same as we are in the Ministry of Health. We made a law for them, gave them a period of time, wanted to give more, and they say, no, we've had enough. In the end, we have not adopted the Transplant Law. I don't want that to happen. Maybe give them a month, maybe give them two or three months in "Transitional positions"? From the voice now to make an amendment, and so they can do so. I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u30	I'm the last closing statement of the National Deputies. Yuri Lewchenko is 3 minutes. And, colleagues, three minutes to make a decision. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u31	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Of course, it's a very important bill, and we're going to support it in the first reading, because it really needs some work. In particular, I think it is necessary to state at the level of the law that this register should be solely controlled exclusively by the State, and without any private linings, without any private performers, contractors, and so on, only the state structure should do so. But in addition to the issue of the register itself, perhaps the most important question is who is entitled to be in this register. Yeah? And in the context of this discussion, which was now going on in full procedure, I'm going to go to the hall and remind the people's deputies. Because when you're talking about veterans here, most of the time, yes, I'm going to remind you that we have thousands of people so far who actually fought east against the Moscow invasion, which, by the way, volunteers went to war, yes, thousands of people still don't have UBD -- a participant in combat. This is about volunteers who were in volunteer battalions who went to war and then did not cross over and never fought in the Ukrainian Armed Forces as in official formations. Thus, thousands of these people have no recognition from the State. And why it's not just about social issues (plums, security), although it's also obviously important, but it's about dignity first. I mean, how can we even talk about any respect for veterans, for our Armed Forces, when these, again, thousands of guys who have protected and protected our country so far, by the way, don't even have this proper recognition of the official state. Not to mention, for example, the families of such victims cannot receive any compensation if the victim was in a volunteer battalion and was not in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. So the question is that this relevant bill was drafted by volunteers, volunteers, and together we tabled this bill again on October 10, 2017, 7190, on the recognition of volunteers as participants in hostilities, their social and legal status. He's been sabotaging for six and a half years. After that, the leadership of the committee and the governing oligarchic coalition in the Supreme Council tried twice to register the shuler bill in April 18th. Then there was another attempt in October 18th. They tried to register a bill, they registered a bill that preserved the situation when volunteers had no recognition. We've registered our alternate bill, and we've raised that question the next time. And this is a question despite these re-registrations, even though they are on the Supreme Council, these documents, despite the urgent issue of simply dignity and honor, yes, they haven't been put to the vote for more than a year and a half, not even for discussion. Even those bills that the oligarchic majority proposes. So, you know, when you talk about the vet register, you might think about those who are supposed to be in these registers, and whether people today have a proper recognition from the state of Ukraine that they were protecting and protecting. Don’t forget that, in fact, don’t constantly engage in blasphemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u32	So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed. Now, a closing statement from the chairman of the Committee of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Mr. Alexander, will two minutes be enough? And I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Thirdyakov is the closing word. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u33	I realize that the oligarchic minority envys the oligarchic majority. That's what I'm saying about you, Mr. Yuri. First. Secondly, over a year and a half, you should come to the Committee on Veterans, not just from the rostrum, as it is convenient for you to be populist and supposedly for people. Secondly, everything about people with disabilities and volunteers and families of the dead was regulated by the bill in 15 years. Be good, read the games. It's different. Last one. This register gives the opportunity and the truth to recognize, those who fought, and those who did not. And to help those volunteers who did not get UCD status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u34	Colleagues. So, colleagues, please take up jobs, prepare for the decision. Colleagues, an extremely important bill. I can see that there's some kind of relaxation in the room after a lot of intense questions. Please return from your beds to the hall. You just might not be able to vote. Colleagues, I'm addressing everyone who's in bed to go back to the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, regarding the Single State Register of War Veterans (No. 9508), at the suggestion of a committee, on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice. We're voting carefully. Please be supportive. We will support the veterans of war, the defenders of our country. Voting, supporting. [[16:40:53]] For 221 I'll bet on my return, colleagues. I see. I'll put it back, but I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. I'm announcing five times that there's going to be a vote. Please, everyone, be at work. I'm proposing to go back to Bill 9508. Please vote, please support. Mrs. Ola! It's about war veterans, please vote. To return, we vote. We're backing it up. To return. [[16:41:43]] For 230 So, colleagues. So, colleagues, the bill of Law 9508 proposed by the committee is based and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. [[16:42:19]] For 237 Decision taken. Colleagues, next. We included in the morning's agenda a daily draft decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the national parliaments of NATO member states on the acquisition of NATO membership by Ukraine (10007). Let's move on to his consideration. And the first sentence is to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[16:43:02]] For 178. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, today you and I have made historic decisions and enshrined in the Constitution the irreversibility of the EU and NATO membership course. But this work should continue. Numerous studies have shown that most Ukrainians support NATO entry. I believe we must do the will of the Ukrainian people. That is why we are initiating the Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council to the leaders of the NATO member states, the North Atlantic Council and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the national parliaments of the member states of the Alliance, "Concerning Ukraine's Action Plan on NATO Membership." We must call on NATO to initiate a formal, mutually binding procedure of entry without delay. In 2008, according to the resolution of the Bucharest NATO Summit, Ukraine was told that the Alliance's membership plan would open, that the door was open. Today we opened this door. Now, dear partners with NATO, run us through this door and make Ukraine the next member of the Alliance. Let us discuss this subject in detail. Today’s assembly of parliament is simply bound to take this step. I would like to point out that the conditions of prewar life are to be rejected. Since 2014, the world has become different. Today, both the Alliance and Ukraine live in unique new circumstances. Ukraine is now defending itself from Russian invasion, not just of itself, but of Europe. Our fight is a fight for the whole free world. Ukraine deserved much more support from the Alliance. Ukraine’s introduction is beneficial to both sides. There are enough allies in the Alliance who are ready to discuss this decision. We have the full right to ask not only about Ukraine's membership in NATO, but also about the introduction of a simplified and accelerated procedure. I'll talk to the skeptics who are in this room. Think of your visa-free skepticism, your resistance to North Stream 2 building, your lawsuits in Stockholm for Gazprom and much more. Remember and compare with today. Colleagues, just remember our truth. Believe in the power of the Ukrainian nation, we move forward, and we'll be fine. I call for approval of the appeal of the Supreme Council to NATO and the member states of the Alliance. Ukraine will be in NATO, I'm sure. And then the Alliance will thank us for your persistence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u36	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayovna. I'm sorry, Tarasuk Boris is invited to speak with the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the people, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has considered an initiative to endorse the appeal to the leaders of NATO member states, the North Atlantic Council and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the national parliaments of the Alliance's member states on the issue of Ukraine's NATO Membership Action Plan. The Committee on Foreign Affairs devoted two meetings to the matter. And in both sessions there was a very substantive professional discussion about this project. Thanks to the authors of this bill, this project, I want to say that together with the committee we have produced a text that can be adopted by the Supreme Council, and this is what the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends to the Supreme Council. This is a balanced text that corresponds to the established documents, the underlying documents of the relationship between Ukraine and NATO. This is a project that corresponds to the formulation of the 2008 historic Bucharest Declaration on Ukraine's NATO membership. So, respectable members. Vice-President of the Supreme Council, we propose to endorse the proposed text with the changes that I will read. In paragraph 6, instead of the word "international relations," put the word "international law." Paragraph 9 reads: "Involving attention to the Declaration of the NATO Summit in Bucharest of 3 April 2008, which affirms Ukraine's prospects for NATO membership and underlines support for the application for a Membership Action Plan." Paragraph 15 or 3 of the operating part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u38	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u39	In this edition, "It calls on the leaders of NATO member states to approve (to delete "at the Alliance's Jubilee Summit in London in December 2019"). Next: "a decision that will develop the position of the Bucharest NATO Summit and formally launch an individual dialogue of recommendations and practical support with our nation, which will form a plan of action for Ukraine's NATO membership." Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u40	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From "Peter Prashenko's Block" by Rizanenko Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u41	Please pass it on to the Jurassic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u42	Mrs. Oksana Jurinec. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u43	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In fact, today is a historic moment, and as the head of the delegation to NATO from the Ukrainian Parliament, I want to say that we have really done something about creating a new Ukrainian history today. We have to understand that now we're so deep and we can't fully understand all of those important historical moments, but I think in time the story will give us its assessment. It is important that our hand does not shudder when we today have to make decisions that make a contribution to the country. It is very important that the NATO Assembly today, which is working, has a great coalition of pro-Ukrainian politicians who have a great deal of experience in building their countries, those countries that have once followed their own path, establishing irreversibility in the Constitutions. That and Balta, that's Romania, that's Montenegro. Today, our colleagues, delegates from other countries, are former defence ministers who have reformed their army. Today, our vote was particularly focused on the military boys, who, unfortunately today, were injured and rehabilitated precisely because of trust funds voted by the national parliaments themselves. It is vital that such decisions be united and voted on, for it is in unity that we will have strength, prosperity, and victory. We all have to understand that who, like us. And there are a lot of things that we have to do in parallel today, because, you know, both historical moments and everyday things are always waiting for us. Crying has not yet given anyone freedom, only anyone who fights is gaining the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u44	From the People's Front, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u45	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front. I prepared a fiery talk about why we should vote in favour of this decree. But considering that my fighting brothers, Yuri Berezi, were born today, I want to make him happy and give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u46	In fact, we have done so many fine things today, not just for today, but for tomorrow, for the day after tomorrow. We have done many fine things for my granddaughter, who was born today. [[Applause]] I know my granddaughter will live in that country that will be in NATO. I know that my great-grandchildren will live in that country that will be in NATO. I know it's an alternative. We've had one chance in history in two thousand years. Remember? I want to go first to the politicians who blew this chance. I'd like to ask you to give the maximum vote today. Do you remember when you didn't give the country a chance in 2006, 2007, 2008? You remember how the Ukrainian Parliament fought for this, but you did not give it a chance. And tens of thousands of Ukrainians began to die during Russia’s open aggression against Ukraine. Think, if we were already in NATO, would there be a war? Think about it. If we were in NATO, would we have a stolen Crimea? I think the answer is no! And that's why I want to call and ask, first of all, to go back to the hall, because there's a pretty important number of votes for this decision. I'd like to welcome Parliament's leadership. You're good. More specifically, the whole Parliament is doing just fine! For today, we're one more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u47	Thank you. So, colleagues, the closing statement is now from the Fatherland faction. Aah! It'll still be from the Cloud. Okay! Let's, maybe I'll give Debenko first and then you to make yours final. Okay? From the opposition block, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u48	Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, we are witnessing another pear-show coalition that has made changes to the Constitution, which are actually fair, they are. They're impractical, they're not applied. They're proving on another occasion that they can't offer you anything but poverty, but some declarations, some populist intentions about NATO membership. Even if you accept all of this, the Constitution has voted, you also vote on this resolution, you just hear the answer that was from NATO members: you won't be there for the next 25 years. That's the first one. With regard to the consequences that have taken place in Ukraine, it is not because of NATO membership, according to a member of the coalition alone. So I want to tell you that the Budapest Memorandum of 94 was signed with Ukraine, and the same United States, Britain were the guarantors of territorial integrity. And what happened? Someone stood up for us, someone protected Ukraine? But you are witnessing what happened in the 14th year. In NATO, too, the United States plays a significant role, and you think someone is going to protect us by war? What should we do? A balanced, constructive position that is based on a mutual attitude toward all the types of people living in Ukraine needs to be built. Needless to say, some are patriots and others are separatists, we are all sons and daughters of Ukraine, we are all patriots of Ukraine. But we have different kinds of patriotism. And you don't have to monopolize that patriotic title. The one who says NATO is good, and you remember the Declaration of State Sovereignty in the 1990s, July 16, Ukraine should be a neutral country. And that's what our fathers said.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u49	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u50	And that's what our founding fathers talked about. Moreover, the Declaration of Independence Act, remember, on December 1, 91st, they once again supported what was said in the declaration needed. You don't have to tell people about all the problems, there are no problems. You're pianists on these things and you don't realize them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u51	Thank you. I just want to remind you that Ukraine has been a neutral state for a long time. Here, in this room, the majority of Yanukovich accepted this status. And actually, at that time, the Russian Federation started an armed aggression against Ukraine. It was at that time that Ukrainians were killed in Donetsk, Lugansk, Crimea. And we need to have the least respect for them, for all the dead and for all the displaced people, to be called upon to commit the same crime today. Ukraine must be a NATO member, and this is the only way to guarantee the security of our citizens, colleagues. From Fatherland, I invite you to the word of Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to say that the "Paternity" faction will definitely support this bill. Today is a special day for me and I'm sorry, but I'll tell you why. Because in 1997, I was the first head of Ukraine at NATO. I was involved in the development of a basic document called "The Paper on Special Relations between Ukraine and NATO." I want to say that in 2006, as foreign minister, successful negotiations were held with NATO and NATO leadership, the North Atlantic Council, as NATO's higher body, was ready to give Ukraine a plan of action for membership. What happened after that? On September 15, 2006, Janukovic went to Brussels and told the North Atlantic Council that the Ukrainians were not ready to join NATO. And that actually blew up our nation's position in the NATO negotiations. In 2008, Julia Timoshenko, as Prime Minister with the President and Head of the Supreme Council, signed a letter to NATO leadership requesting Ukraine to become a member. More specifically, the Membership Action Plan. At the summit in Bucharest, Ukraine was said to become a NATO member along with Georgia. But it was not introduced and was not invited to the Action Plan on Membership, both in Ukraine and in Georgia. I want to say that in 2014, right after the Russian aggression, I personally introduced a bill to restore the strategic course for NATO membership in our legislation. And in 2014, at today’s meeting of the Supreme Council, Julius Timoshenko also introduced such a bill on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u53	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u54	Our faction makes a clear statement in support of this appeal. The appeal is professional, balanced. We are grateful to the authors of this bill and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u55	Thank you. Colleagues, this is the closing act from Self-Help. And in three minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite all the deputies to the Hall, please inform the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that in three minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. And I'd like to give you the floor to speak from the self-help faction of Oleni Sotnik. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u56	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The Self-Help faction unreservedly supports the strategic orientation of both NATO and the European Union. And we think this is a key task for Ukraine today -- to build a strong defence system. But from the number of times we have spoken to you, from the number of beautiful words in these speeches, the situation will not change directly with the standards of our army, the situation of a corrupt defence budget will not change, the situation of an inefficient military-industrial complex will not change. So, if we really want to go to NATO with you, the task is not to write a speech, but the task of this Parliament is to adopt the relevant laws. And Self-Help, by the way, was offered in particular by the Transparency Budget Act, which has been on the shelves for two years now, and no one is going to look at it. Adopt laws and carry out concrete implementation actions: change the army, change the standards of formation, change the standards of weapons, make real action, move away from corruption practices, show NATO standards here in Ukraine, even if we don't have a plan today. This means that if you conform to these standards, you do not need to ask. If we have a strong army, if we have full compliance with NATO standards, we don't have to talk, they will call us as a strong partner. And this has to be a strategic task -- to become a strong partner and to acquire without reservation those signs and characteristics of a strong state, not to ask or to turn to us, but to turn to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u57	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. Once again, I urge everyone to take up their jobs, return to the hall, and prepare for the vote. Colleagues, an important, principle of voting, and I am sure that all those who declare a Euro-Atlantic purpose should be in their seats and should be in the room after this vote. Colleagues, stop the political discussions, get back to your seats. Ready? Let's move on to making a decision. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the national parliaments of NATO member states on the acquisition of NATO membership by Ukraine (No. 10007) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, for Ukraine's security, for the safety of our citizens, for NATO. Voting, supporting. Vote. [[17:03:30]] For 243 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats. It's been decided. I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. Attention, colleagues! Now, before determining what the next draft law will be, I would like to re-apply two factions with the proposal only to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code for the Improvement of Certain Provisions in connection with the Special Trial Investigation (9353). In the morning, prosecutor Lucenko reported on the bill. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. That's one minute. I'm asking everyone to maximize their mobility. And, colleagues, I ask you to support the proposal to include in the agenda the bill 9353. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:04:46]] For-161 And, colleagues, next. I want to remind you that at the evening session, I highlighted draft Law 9331 on the replacement of the name of the court in Crimea. And a number of factions came to me, colleagues, so that we could take it up, colleagues. We've moved on. Leonid Jemetz spoke to all the factions. And Honcharenko spoke to all the factions. Everyone knows and has a position. And I'm going to propose that we postpone its consideration of 9331. So, colleagues, please support the transfer of the draft Law 9331 to now. Please vote. Please be supportive. For the transfer of 9331. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:05:47]] For-187 Maybe not all of them were. It's a technical law. I'll explain to you, it's called "The Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Crime Area" to determine the territorial jurisdiction of the defendants in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol to the courts and the criminal offences committed in the temporarily occupied territory. I'll give Hotcharenko a minute to explain, although the consultations have been held, but it's better to explain from the rostrum. The potter's is one minute. It's a technical law, but it's urgent. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, this is a very important law and it's very short. It consists of several actually sentences, but today we cannot judge Crimean traitors, such as the deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, for voting in favour of joining the Russian Federation. We can't judge them because we changed the names of the courts. It's a very simple technical thing, but that's why we can't do justice in such extremely important matters. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. It's a technical, very short law, but it's extremely important. The Crimea Interfractional Union has signed it, and we ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u59	Colleagues, are they all oriented? So I'm going to re-supply the bill, which is still in order for the day to be considered now 9331. Please vote. And please support the transposition of Law 9331. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:07:46]] For-200 26 votes. Again? All right, I'll make it a final one. But let me read the factions specifically for you right now. For everyone. Block of Peter Poshenko – 78, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 15, Father's Party – 4, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 22. We just need to mobilize, colleagues. I'm going to do it one more time, three. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs and please come into the hall. You're ready, aren't you? So I'm going to propose to move Bill 9331 to a review now, which is from the next order of the day, after a few, for consideration now. Please vote. Please be supportive. A technical bill needed for monitoring and to support our Crimean Tatars and all Ukrainian citizens. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Ruslan, we have a vote. [[17:09:05]] For 202 202. It's a huge breakup, colleagues. Colleagues, next. We have the following, we have included in the agenda of the day’s session, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the continuous supply of electricity to operators (9406 and 9406-1). We included him in the morning, and now we can go into his consideration. But I was asked by the committee to put on a rating before that, if there were no votes, so that we wouldn't go in there, colleagues. 9406, 9406-1. I'm telling everyone not to be surprised. So now I'm voting on draft Law 9406 and 9406-1. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:10:13]] For 185 And, colleagues, the last vote. Attention! We had the next day's information block. I'll remind you, colleagues, I'll remind all of you, whether in opposition or in coalition: this is the development of technologies, IT technologies, that will allow us to go to new investment horizons. These are small questions, but they're very important. They've been ready by the committee for a long time. The committee has been waiting for months to consider this block. And I'm going to ask everyone. I'll put it on the ratings, too, so I don't have to put it at risk. But I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. The question block is 3549-1 on electronic communication. I said that we were in Korea and there, thanks to electronic communications and IT technology, we were able to make an economic breakthrough. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the ratings vote. Now I'm voting on the proposal to review the draft Law on Electronic Communications (3549-1 and 3549-3), and this is a rating vote. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[17:11:32]] For 178. Unfortunately, colleagues. So, colleagues, and the final bill that we put into the morning's agenda is a bill amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing. He had great support (10006 and 10006-1). And I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:12:43]] For-72 So, colleagues. A very big break, colleagues, we're going into full procedure. I want to remind you, there are two co-rapporteurs. And we are going to consider a draft Act amending the Housing Code of the Ukrainian RSR and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing. We have two co-reporters, and I invite you to report to the first co-rapporteur, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u60	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected journalists, respected operators, respected Ukrainians! First of all, I would like once again to thank all the Ukrainian parliamentarians present today who have supported a few of the country's decisions. First of all, this is a decision to support the proposals of President Peter Poshenko of Ukraine to the Constitution of Ukraine by anchoring in the Constitution of Ukraine our course on NATO and the European Union. With regard to the bill on the rights of people living in apartment buildings that we are considering today, we passed this bill in January. And the key point of this bill is the following. If a housing fund is being built for residents who buy apartments and are going to live there instead of setting up offices, it is planned in some way, according to Ukrainian DBNs, the entire infrastructure and structure of the house. I mean the number of exits, the width of the stairs, the number of elevators and also the number of open balconies on each floor. Regrettably, when housing starts to accommodate offices or hostels, the following very serious problem arises from the point of view of the safety of finding these people in the house. Because the average office as a minimum of 5 times the number of people present exceeds the amount that is to be accommodated in this apartment. It's average data, it's very easy to verify by. If you talk to those people who live in the capital of Ukraine who live in the district centers in the houses that hold this position. But unfortunately, when the number of people present in this house is exceeded, of course, there are a lot of problems that relate to the comfort involved in the extensive use of the building’s infrastructure. But the key is that there is a big problem in the security situation of Ukrainian citizens who are in this house. I'll explain it very simply. During the fire, you know, the most dangerous, more accurate, no less dangerous than fire is smoke and smoke. And if there's two, three, four floors in the house, of course you can hold your breath and run down the stairs. If in a house of twenty - five, thirty there, sometimes even forty floors, you know, today such buildings are built all over Ukraine, unfortunately you can neither hold your breath nor do anything else to save yourself in a fire when the area is completely smoldering and the house is smoldering. Sadly, then, the situation that exists today is, first of all, leading to what may arise, unfortunately, to explain the loss of life. We all remember the incident in Zaporozhye, where the hostel burned down and nearly 20 people died, if I am not mistaken. We all remember the situation in Kiev, in other district centers, when apartment buildings were burned, and people were miraculously rescued, sometimes jumping out the windows when they allowed flooring. And that's why this bill protects citizens' rights and, I would say, first of all, the right to life. Because let's not forget that this is a key fundamental value -- protecting the lives of every citizen in any country in a fire situation. In addition, I would like to say that this bill is quite widely discussed in expert circles, it's quite widely discussed among the public, it's very widely discussed with all the factions and groups that are present in this room and who have participated in the drafting of this bill. What did this lead to? That not only do we protect citizens' right to life and, let's be honest, save them from potential death. Because it is not a toy, it is a situation that, the defense of God, does not arise. But we also don't allow any pressure on Ukrainian business. Because it was one of the topics of discussion during the working groups under the bill and during the meeting of the national deputies when the bill was being discussed. So we don't even touch this bill in buildings that make up 20, 30, 40 floors, we don't touch the first, the second, the cap and the last floor. The other one. We do not touch on the legal registration of legal persons, that is, we can register, as it has always been, as much as possible. And the third. We don't touch the FOPs. Why is this important? Because our task is not only to protect people's rights, but at the same time, not to oppress the rights of our entrepreneurs, especially the medium and small businesses. At the moment, the bill is verified, the bill is harmonized between all factions and groups. It only applies to buildings 17 floors and above. He is supported, according to my information, by representatives of all factions and groups, which were duly proved during the full discussion of this bill in January. And, above all, the adoption of this bill will really solve the problem that exists today. I am approached by hundreds of citizens from all the cities of Ukraine that this problem must be resolved. And today, I would also like to say that, if you remember, in January we had a situation where we had an alternative bill, and part of the alternative bill was decided by the committee to include it in the main bill. At the moment, Bill 10006, which is re-registered, includes those parts of the previous alternative that the committee decided to include in the main. So this question is solved. I know there's a few other little moments in the alternative today that we're also going to include under the stenogram. And today's request to speak is quite quick, quite specific, and to make a judgmental decision on the solution to this dual problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u61	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter and then we're going to invite the author of an alternative bill to the rostrum. Please. Please, Valery Pisarenko, your question to Mr. Gerasimov, is now a chance to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u62	Thank you. My dear colleague, I wanted to say, first of all, for your initiative, a great deal of gratitude, you and I have discussed the problems that relate to this idea. And I'd like to hear your opinion on how much more this idea needs to be expanded, can we move on? Because the problem is not unique to Ukraine and I am constantly approached by the Harkians to help them resolve the conflicts that arise in solving the problem. Because right now everyone gets used to it carefully enough, they only touch one part. But do we want to hear if we can move forward in solving this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u63	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Valeria, I would really like to say that we're only starting with a small part of the problems that exist today in the use of the housing fund in Ukraine. And, indeed, to this day, the problems that the people of Kiev, Kharkiv, Lviv, Odessa, other great cities of Ukraine see every day, they are superserious. But the key thing that we're starting with is security, that's fire safety, and that's the essence of this law, that's the essence of this law. Because, sorry, when the fire starts, and when the house is smoky, the key is to save a person's life. Of course, in the working group and in the interviews with the people’s deputies, we talked about many other problems. And I want to tell you that this is just the first step and we're going to be, step by step, gradually solving other problems that exist in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u65	Next question, please, the national deputy Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u66	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. In fact, what I'm saying is that today in the country, the situation in the multi-entity housing fund is uncontrollable, and the legislature's efforts to legitimize it, to make it a rule of law, as it were, is good. But at the same time, we see a number of bills, the first question, how do you differ from others? One second. As I understand it, your bill allows you to legally place those houses, so the housing fund, which is up to 17 floors and who's over 17 floors, you forbid. What determines your standard, why 17? Although I can agree somewhere on some of the fires of different cases, some other anti-sanitary stuff, I agree. But what exactly did you define the norm, let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u67	Thank you for asking. You're right, it all started, and the key difference between this bill and others is the focus on fire safety and generally on the safety of citizens living in housing. And when this height of the house was determined, we actually worked from the metre first, how many meters there are heights in this house, and then we came straight to the terminology of those that are above 16 stories. The key is how much our fire parts are equipped with stairs to evacuate people, how much our fire parts are equipped with, let's say, equipment to evacuate people from such buildings, how much, according to DBNN, and generally according to the building rules that exist today, these issues are solved. And obviously, of course, we have to solve this for all the houses. But above all, the hottest one is this, the most dangerous situation for high-rise houses, and that's where we start. As I said, this is the first step, and then we're going to open up even more public debate to go ahead and take other steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u68	Thank you. Thank you very much. You can go back to your workplace. And now I invite you to report to the author of alternative bill No. 10006-1 Yuri Lewchenk. Please, Mr. Levchenko, you have 10 minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u69	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would like to take the lead as a senior deputy in Kiev, along 223th district of Shevchenkov district of Kiev. As a national deputy in the Shevchenk district, I have received dozens of appeals in my four and a half years of office and continue to receive a lot of appeals from my constituents, which is simple. They're just being bullied. In fact, some of the illegal hostels that are housed in their multi-houses, for these people, the quality of life is just terrible: they are constantly affected by antisocial behavior, by the drinking of the people of these hostels, by total anti-sanitary. In fact, they admire them. They admire the general use of their buildings, people can't move around their eastern cells normally, people can't use elevators normally. And it's because. And all of this because there's no one in our current legislation, I'm stressing the problem that there is, no real regulation of hostels like that. We don't have any definition of the current legislation as a hostel. So, today, what's going on? A couple of apartments are taken, for example, in a nine - story old, yes, Soviet, underground hostel, somewhere on the fifth, sixth floor between dwellings, where people really try to live in peace. And that's where total mess and chaos begin. At the wish of the people and at the attempts of the people who live in the right apartment, one day when people call the police, nothing can prohibit such activity, because nothing is formally forbidden here. That's how the police react to drinking, breaking sound standards, something else, but it's a one-time challenge. The police are unable to legally close such hostels, on the one hand. You call, you write a statement as a member of the State Fiscal Service, you say they don't pay taxes, and the DFS also says, but there's nothing we can do about it, because as a host, they don't, they don't break anything, they don't understand how to tax them, so we don't do anything either. Yeah? And so, tens, maybe even hundreds of thousands of people in large-town apartment buildings today, in Ukraine, are just being bullied by these antisocial private businesses, who are just doing everything they can to do, gain revenue and not thinking about people who are trying to do it simply. You know, you also have to understand, man in today's conditions in Ukraine, when there's so much terrible around, when there's a total socio-economic decline, when 60 percent of people are either on the poverty line, or outside of poverty, are UN data. And then one wants to come home at night after a hard day's work, rest a little bit at home so that no one touches it, just a little bit in their corner, at least to be distracted from all the horror that's going on outside its walls, yeah. And what does a person get? What do older ones in particular get, so that young children get what young parents get? They get total horror in their own home, where they can't rest properly, live normally, yeah. Especially, by the way, we really need to focus on the issues and problems of older people, who are particularly affected by this, especially because older people are more difficult to communicate with the police and to call the police somehow. People can't stop this vacchanal at all, even from the point of view. So it's obvious to me that the problem is huge, and this problem needs to be solved. And that's exactly where it can't be solved, according to the legislation in force. I've had a lot of people write on Facebook after we've discussed this a few times. A lot of people wrote and talked, but what do you make up, you make up? In fact, all of this can be resolved in accordance with existing legislation. So the problem is that in this case, the existing legislation is not enough, it does not allow the problem to be solved. In addition to the question of hostels, of course, there is also a question of offices where the same multi-room housing units are essentially converted into de facto office centres, thereby completely destroying the quality of life of the relevant local residents, who are as completely being held hostage as the hostages in their own homes, in their own apartments, when people cannot get out to the stairway cell, because there are five office workers and smoke, so when the fully overloaded infrastructure of the house is completely. And there's obviously something to be done about it. So, of course, if this is about office space, then you have to find a balance between self-occupation, between the FOPs, between people working on their own without involving any hired force and the need to regulate the use of the housing fund. So in fact, this problem has grown in society. It needs to be discussed, it needs to be addressed. And so we've tried several times in this session room to adopt, at least in the first reading, bills that would move in the right direction. Sadly, so far this session hall has ignored the needs of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians and has not even voted in the first reading. I'm talking to the people's deputies, if you have any comments -- please work on the second reading, but for four years, this problem is not even a first step, and hundreds of thousands of people are suffering, they have terrible living conditions, they have to start this process. So when I talk about specific proposals for the bill, I'm going to talk about my bill, which looks like the first bill, but in fact, I think it's significantly improving the first bill in terms of legal engineering, in terms of specific mechanisms. And if we were to define the question in general, how do we propose to settle it? Even if we have a full procedure, I can quote the rules of the bill. In fact, we're suggesting that we point out that use, this is about change to. This is about changes to the relevant legislation on property rights for housing. Thus, article 383 of the Law of the Owner of the Housing, Apartment: "The use of apartments in multi-housing dwellings, including offices of administrative premises, hotels and other temporary residences is convened, with the exception of the accommodation of hostels and offices of administrative premises, in accordance with the provisions of part two of this article and the Law on Tourism." That is, we clearly regulate in which cases it is allowed to use shelters under hostels and under offices. Continuation: "The placement of offices, administrative premises in multi-house accommodations with a surface of up to 16 floors, except for the cases provided for in paragraph 3 of this article, shall be permitted subject to compliance with the requirements of State Building Standards, Sanitary Technical Requirements and Rules for the Operation of the House and to obtain the consent of the co-owners of this house in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Realization of Property Rights in a Multi-Apartment House." I mean, if the owners of the house didn't give permission to place the office, and also, by the way, the hostel (it's a separate formula for the hostel in the Tourism Act), it can't be located. But this is about big offices. Now, when it comes to small offices, individual employment. The owners of apartments and persons whose residence is registered in the apartment may use a suitable apartment in a multi-housing apartment to do business without the use of a hired job, subject to the requirements of state building standards, sanitary and maintenance requirements and regulations, provided that such activity does not violate the rights and interests of other owners, the users of the premises in the apartment and does not contravene the established rules for the use of housing and housing. We also write down a very detailed definition of the hostel, what a hostel is and what hostels can be considered hostels in general and how we regulate hostels. So the point is, once again, to accommodate the hostel, it's going to be the license of most of the residents of the house, which is the most important thing. The hostel should have a separate, real single entrance, that is, separate from the general entrance to the house, from the general entry group, not as it is now: the general approach is used for everyone. There must be requirements for a subway, for sanitation, for other requirements for a hostel to be located there. As far as the difference between my bill and my first bill is concerned, there are a few basic points. First of all, the first bill has a major flaw in the legislative technique in particular. It's just me. It's a responsibility. When a change was prescribed to the KUPAP regarding administrative offences, the first bill did not, in effect, prescribe a protocol that would be appropriate for an administrative offence. Accordingly, it will not be an administrative offence, in fact, to be implemented. Well, someone's got a proper sanction on it. That's why my bill says that the police have a protocol to write, and that's how it fills this bill with real meaning. Similarly, the first option is a substantial coalition, which is basically what I just quoted from my bill, and the first option is a substantial coalition, which, frankly, is so prescribed that there's a complete mess in the plan, and where offices are allowed, where offices are not officially allowed -- in 16 floors, for whom they are allowed, for small ones, for large ones -- there's a completely non-working mechanism, we've written it down in quite detail. In particular, I point out that we believe that offices can be allowed in buildings, exclusively large offices, not that a single apartment for one self-employed person, large offices can be allowed solely with the permission of residents. Please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u70	Please finish the minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u71	Large offices should be allowed solely with the permission of residents. Because the first draft, reported by Mr. Gerasimov, says that the ban on offices begins only with buildings of 16 floors and above. I think it's absurd. What, people who live in 9-story houses, what, they don't suffer from it? They're suffering, too. So there has to be a proper mechanism when for buildings that are below 16 floors, you can also ban the office, but it should only be about, first of all, a large office, and second of all, when most of the residents of the house make that decision. And this is a mechanism that we're also prescribing. So in summary, I call on the deputies, in fact, to vote for it. But you know, I can tell. And Mrs. Irina, please don't turn it off right now, I'm about to finish my appeal to the deputies. Guys, I see there's no voices in the room right now, most of the halls just aren't there, right? So I urge everyone to use a long procedure to make the most of this issue today, not go down, but vote on the next plenary Tuesday. Because if we put it to a vote today, it's going to be the next one, which is actually going to be broken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u72	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. I'm asking you to sign up for Yuri Lewchenk. Please, John Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u73	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we've heard the first bill and the second, and probably a lot of things here really, as I can see, are common. And maybe there aren't many of these disputes, but at the same time, we know that we still have to adopt legislatively all of these acts of Ukrainian ownership of housing. Of course, we've heard everything there must be, all the infrastructure, there's elevators, balconies, etc. But I have a question in the following question. Well, if there's a dispute, for example, in your bill, for example, if only one part of the neighbors gave permission and some part didn't. That's what we're going to do here, because it's going to be a really big issue and it's not going to be really legislative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u74	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u75	Thank you for asking. Well, actually, look, we're in the context of the permission of the locals, so, we're clearly referring to the procedure, today's procedure, as set out in the relevant bill on. about the specifics of implementation. It's not a bill, it's a Ukrainian law that says, "On the specificities of the exercise of property in a multi-housing house." So we're referring to this procedure and the procedure is the same as, for example, creating OSBB or creating a manager. There's a majority right there, just like any other decision. If most have made the right decision, duly certified by protocol and so forth, then the decision is counted, right? So it's not just from the ceiling that someone has gathered there, but it's about the procedure already in force in the Act on the specialities of the exercise of ownership in a multi-room building, which prescribes such a possibility of joint management by common property, in fact. So there are no innovations here, and I think it's the only mechanism that can be done. At the same time, I emphasize that in addition to the permission of most residents, there are still a number of other requirements that are independent of the permission of residents, right? I mean, when it comes to state building standards, sanitation standards and so on, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u76	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u77	They remain independent of the permission of the inhabitants. So it can't be that, for example, some unscrupulous entrepreneur bribed half the people there and decided to do some total vacchanal, no, it can't be. So we're combining 2 approaches: on the one hand, regulatory, on the other hand, residence permits.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u78	Thank you. Please ask the following question, National Deputy Sergei Evtushek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u79	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Mr. Yuri, I support your legislative initiative. Moreover, what's stipulated in your draft law about what people are supposed to do most of the time, give office or hostel in their apartment building is the right thing to do. But at the same time, I understand why the emphasis is on banning buildings that are 17 and above. Perhaps the truth is to tell people that there is no appropriate special technique in cases where, for example, God forbid a fire. But give me the answer to that question. You're prescribing to the National Police that they're the ones who have to file a protocol on administrative misconduct. In the National Police, a number of officials are not specifically prescribed in your bill, and the official of the National Police will have the right to file a report on administrative misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u80	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm paying attention, if this is about 16 floors and above, what you asked first, is my bill says that 16 floors and above are not allowed at all. And what's less than 16 floors is already included in these rules of residence permits, and so on. And that's a significant difference between my bill and Mr. Gerasimov, because what's below 16 floors is exclusively about hostels, and it's not about offices. And here, I think, is the problem. In terms of protocols, see, we have actually prescribed additions to the corresponding article today, the relevant legislation, it is about. Now, if you'll excuse me. It's about. It's in the Code of Administrative Offences in Chapter III of "Organs authorized to deal with administrative offences" in article 255, and in other articles that we prescribe, we add an appropriate article, a new one just appears on administrative offences, we add an appropriate code today, we prescribe that this is what the National Police are doing. I mean, we're there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u81	Please finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u82	It's already in the codex. That is, there is a list of articles to which we add a new article. So there is, it's not a novelty, it's not an invention of a new sex. In an article that already lists articles as a National Police protocol, we add an additional article on new administrative wrongdoing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u83	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. All questions have already been answered, according to the three minutes provided by the Rules. Dear colleagues, we have about 15 minutes of discussion left. I'm asking you to sign up from the MPs and factions for these two bills right now. The vote will, of course, take place on the next sessional day of the following week. We're today, I think we're going to have a part of the discussion, and then we're going to continue the discussion of the next sessional day. Please, Valery Pisarenko, give me your word. You're welcome. Are you going to be from the rostrum or from the rostrum? Out of the way. Okay. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the two authors for taking up this problem. We also have a registered Bill number 6465 that regulates about the same problem, but it's more than what we're talking about right now. If we're talking about the fact that we're looking after fire safety, and the fact that the offices are there, the hostels in the housing fund, we should talk in principle about something else. We should tell them whether we are willing to extend the rights of residents of housing today and give them the right to decide what is going to be inside the dwellings and what is to be limited and what is not. Since the right to private property has not yet been prohibited, it must be understood that the right to private property is also somewhat limited by the interests of other owners. So here we have to, by making compromises, give new rights and opportunities to co-owners and residents of apartment buildings. And I think language goes not only when we have high floors, but bad people living in 5-story houses, 9-story houses where there are and there are the same problems. For example, I often had people in the city of Kharkiv who asked me questions when there were food establishments on the first floor. And when a general ventilation system comes out of the kitchen of a food facility, and people can't live properly, or some discotheque, or callagna in the living room is located on the first floor or in the basement. So these problems are unique. I'm sure it's not just a problem for Kharkiv, I think it's a problem for all cities. But is it right for us to do what we do is forbidden? Because much is forbidden today, but the facilities open up, no one asks permission, but they act as owners of housing and homes. Because you don't even go to every apartment to see what's going on. So, in my opinion, it was better to follow the logic that we suggested that we give more rights to residents of housing, giving them the opportunity today to decide for themselves what is allowed and what is not. And that would be logical in terms of the solution and the further existence of the things that the co-authors were talking about today. In general, we need to go to first reading, but we need to work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I should apologize for making a mistake with the Rules, and I, in particular, as chairman and did not give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the construction, construction and housing and utility of Andri Shinkovic. We suggest that we now go through a discussion from the MPs and factions, and on Tuesday we will begin with Mr. Shinkovic's report and the debates of the deputies that will be recorded in this discussion. I apologize again, it's a technical mistake. Now, Mr. Shinkovic has a word, not as a representative of the committee, but as a reporter for the faction of the Peter Prashenko bloc. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u86	Thank you very much, Vice Speaker. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, is there a problem with using residential facilities for business? Of course there is. I think none in my district, whether it be a large city or a small district center, are facing such a problem. But when it comes to a nail polishing workshop on the 8th floor, when it comes to a neighborhood apartment that has more than 20 residents who are constantly changing and for which sanitary standards, well, are not important here, really, to find a healthy balance between the rights of the owner of the apartment that made it a nail polish shed and the rights of the residents. The roommates of the apartment house, that's what we're talking about. Here we certainly consider the co-ownership of a multistory house. It's about the shared territories that are being used, it's about the common land area that's under this building under this house. So it would be our wisdom to regulate all of this by predicting really all the nuances. We're talking about what your own apartment is, and it's provided for in both bills, you can use it as a business, if you run it yourself, yes, give it up for tautology. But if you hire a labor force, once, and that's just, you know, you can hire one person, you can hire 100 employees, for example, yes. One. The other one. If you're leading people, if there's 100 or 200 people coming to you every day, and you're above the 2nd floor, and you don't have a separate entrance, then of course all of this gives a certain amount of pressure, the kind of pressure that our esteemed colleague Levchenko just predicted in those positions about the DEA, the use, the talk and the fire safety, the stress on the elevators, on the stairs, on many others, really, the places of sharing of residents' housing. Therefore, priority should be given to these bills: first, of course, the right of residents to have their vote, and I would say, not advisory, but decisive. And the second is a clear regulation of what a hostel is, and unfortunately, there was no such thing as a hostel in Ukraine until now, and unfortunately, we're not one, but two bills have failed, forgive me, dear colleagues, it's already the third attempt. Bill 10006 provides for a reverend, Mr. Levchenk, who is the hostel. And that's really his big part in this. There's a proposal to adopt one of the bills, it's 10006.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u87	Thank you. 15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u88	Yeah, 15 seconds. It is 10006, which has already been able to consider the Committee on Construction, and when considering the second reading, to make all the right, absolutely just amendments and changes. But we have no right in discussing this bill to overthrow. So I ask, really, to participate actively in the discussion, but to accept it at a time that determines our leadership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u89	Thank you. This was the position of Peter Dustock's Block. And on Tuesday, we're going to start with the committee's position on this bill. Please, Alona Babak, your opinion and position on the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u90	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, the Self-Help Group welcomes the initiative of the national deputies to settle the question of hostels in multi-housing homes. This is a clear question that today requires the most up - to - date solution. At the same time, we see that these bills — though one, though the other — need to be voted on, only on the basis of and seriously worked on the second reading. We've already heard from colleagues of other factions that there are problems with definitions. Well, for example, if we enter the term "hostels" and we say it's a separate, so-called entry group, which is not from the driveway, but separately, why should we then limit the five numbers or the six people that are in these numbers. We will kill those legal hostels that are now operating through separate entrances in houses that pay taxes legally, which keep people legally available for accommodation services. You can't do that. If this is a separate entrance, how many numbers are there, let's see how many are there. At the same time, this definition does not solve the issue of housing for a large number of people as a rental. Because today there is no definition of hostels in Ukrainian legislation. At the same time, we see the sign of the hostel, but it's just going to go rent out. And as we said before, there could be 60 people on two hundred meters that are located there, and it looks like a flat in the lease. These issues are not regulated by these laws. Let us, however, go back to the fact that we have to work on the second reading and only on the basis of accepting these things. As for the natural persons who are entrepreneurs who can work, but who can't work. Dear colleagues, we must give a clear answer to society today. If there's a natural entrepreneur who's got a job of up to 10 people, how is that allowed by legislation, what are we going to tell them today? Everybody's got to get out of the apartment and go to the malls, right? Let's make this clear to everyone. Because we allow a natural entrepreneur to register and find a place to run a business, but without a job. Right? So let's see that we really tell all the naturalists that they can't operate in apartments without the decision of the general congregations of this house. Because Mr. Yuri used to say, "Small office, big office." There's no such thing. There is either a legal entity or a physical person who is an entrepreneur who does his own work or with a job. We need to understand clearly how these subjects will be affected by this law. So far we've seen that we're forbidding any employment to be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u91	Thank you for your presentation. And please, from the People's Front, National Deputy Stashuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u92	Good afternoon! Vitaly Stasuk, 212 District, Darnica, city of Kiev Like many in Ukraine, this problem is extremely urgent for donors. Because Darnica is an area where very many high-rises and very often near their usual neighbors are bumping into people who are largely in neighborhoods, and all of this is called a hostel. In fact, these are some poorly organized places where the most unpleasant things happen. And of course, it's time to settle all these issues. As if we have such a common view in the room that these issues need to be resolved. But unfortunately, we see that we are not ready for the vote and unfortunately we have two projects instead of one. Obviously, it's going to have to be for the benefit of any one of them, but it's extremely important that this is a successful vote. And the pluses and minuses of both projects, colleagues have talked about this over and over and over again. If we're careful about learning from documents that we've prepared, for example, our Chief Scientific and Expert Office, we're aware that not only does the idea of hostels not work out, but the idea is that the office is not legally valid and that it doesn't raise any doubts about the treatment. So I'd like to offer my colleagues one more time. The moment we vote, it's extremely responsible. And of course, not to fail the second time is an important question, as we once did. At the same time, in general, I don't think any of the projects that I think are ready to vote and the second reading will allow all the shortcomings that we've all heard and talked about today to be corrected. Thank you. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u93	Colleagues, and a closing statement by the national MPs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. From "The Opposition Block" to the word "Dobrenkov Alexander Valeriyovich" please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. It is unfortunate that a fine legislative initiative that we will certainly support by our political power, a bill that is related to the protection of the rights of people living in apartment buildings, will not find support in this room. Because, as we can see, the coalition is gone, but it's not even half-empty, it's two-thirds empty. Ukraine’s national deputies may have no concern for the common people in many homes. But these are really very violent, very life - threatening needs, the problems that people face. This bill is called upon to strengthen the responsibility to meet the requirements for the purpose of use in multi-housing apartments, to regulate the standards of co-owners of dwellings so that their property rights are not violated and, accordingly, not violated their right to normal activity, to normal rest in their apartments. And this question certainly deserves the attention and support of the Supreme Council. As I said, unfortunately, there are no deputies, because perhaps, apart from the declarations that kept them drinking all day, whether they were blocking the rostrums, or whether they were piranha from the first person in the country to the last member of the coalition, these bills would not be accepted. Instead, I would like to draw attention and call on coalition representatives to note that, when the budget for the current year is adopted, with regard to the rights of residents and generally the right of citizens to housing provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, the right of internally displaced persons to receive housing was limited to the need for assistance from foreign financial institutions. That is, the state, realizing that we have more than one and a half million internally displaced persons who have left their homes and who unfortunately do not have a roof over their heads, not for their own fault, which is in the controlled territory, but the state does not pay any attention to their housing problems. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the gradual convergence of the youth lending programme, which has been taking turns in 2012-2013. And in fact, more than a thousand families every year to 35 years, young people in their families were given their housing under the state-owned "Available Housing" program. And in this respect too, unfortunately, government funding programs are being cut short. Although the cg problem currently under consideration is very urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u95	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u96	However, outstanding issues remain about providing housing for young Ukrainians and internally displaced persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-07-m1.u97	Thank you, colleagues. I want to make a message to everyone, I'm going to continue the meeting for two minutes. Attention, I emphasize, we haven't finished our consideration. We still have a report by the representative of the Šinkovic Committee and speeches for the national deputies. So on Tuesday, we can continue and complete the consideration of the bill, so that we don't put it at risk, I'll just keep it informed. And, colleagues, pay attention! I have learned that attempts are being made on the basis of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit draft decrees repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine. So I would like to point out that we have received clarification from the lawyers of the Apparatus and the Committee on Rules, who have taken a clear position on this matter. Amendments to the Constitution are considered by a separate procedure than all other legislative acts, and they are not subject to a regulation that may invalidate their action. And according to part of article 49 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have the right to sign immediately the amendments to the Constitution that we have adopted today. [[Applause]] Colleagues, we all dreamed of that path. I was in favour of Ukraine's NATO entry back in '89 when there was no state. And our dreams came true today when we grouped together to demonstrate the unity of Parliament. Despite the presidential elections, despite the debates and emotions we have shown once again the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes the State's only position when Ukraine is being challenged when it comes to the future of our statehood. We've made a civilizational choice, and I'm sure it's irreversible now, and no one can put it in place and change it. We today will be appraised by our step over the years and generations of Ukrainians that we have made today. Therefore, I immediately sign Ukraine's 9037 Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the State's strategic course for full membership of Ukraine in the EU and NATO and signing it to the President. [[Applause]] Congratulations, fellows of honor! Glory to Ukraine! It is important that on the eve of the fifth anniversary of Maidan, our dreams of Maidan were fulfilled today. I welcome you to this day, an extremely important, successful country, and to the Ukrainian Parliament. Sadly, though, we have to stop. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., I'm going to invite everyone into the hall to continue our not easy but necessary work for the country. Thank you. Good-bye.
