ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u1	Good evening, dear colleagues. Please prepare for work, take your seats. Let's start the registration. Dear colleagues, I have just been asked by the Permanent Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to welcome his colleague from the Council of Jurists. Do I get it right? [[Applause]] And with the celebration of you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[16:16:56]] There are 328 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to Hodakovsky Paul Viktorovich, Deputy Minister of Finance
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u2	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, you have a proposal for bill 2285 on State regulation of organization activities and gambling. The bill is designed for the purpose of comprehensive regulation of gambling activities under a single legal instrument. The bill aims to create a transparent market for gambling in Ukraine in accordance with the international practice of establishing an effective and effective mechanism for monitoring the activities of gambling operators by public authorities and the public, laying the groundwork for ensuring the rights and legitimate interests of citizens. In particular, the bill introduces an exclusive list of gambling activities that are permitted in Ukraine, a system of licensing activities in the field of gambling with the size of an annual licence fee, depending on the type of activity and form of such activity, the location of a gambling establishment, the type of gaming equipment that will provide additional revenue to the state budget. Clear requirements are laid down for the financial status of gambling operators. Special requirements are laid down for the compliance of gaming equipment and software with international standards in this field. Regulation and control of online gambling operators are being introduced. The player identification requirements are set. There are restrictions on gambling sites: casinos, hotels with 5 stars, slots with status, hotels with 3 to 5 stars. Financial, administrative and criminal responsibility is established for violating Ukrainian legislation in the field of gaming. The bill will allow for the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms; minimize the social damage associated with the organisation and conduct of illegal gambling and associated tax evasion; minimize the risks to society and vulnerable groups of the population from gambling through the introduction of the principle of responsible play; invest in the economy of Ukraine, in particular in the area of hospitality and tourism; create additional jobs and obtain a source of additional revenue from the State budget. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u3	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Marousek Oleg Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u4	Dear Head, dear colleagues! As we discussed the bill, option "d" on the committee yesterday, and worked together on a new version, I'm handing over the word to the Dublin Alexander. Because he is the author of that bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u5	National Deputy of Ukraine Mulik Roman Miranovic
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, Mr. Speaker, distinguished members of the Presidium! Your opinion is presented by an alternative bill under number 2285-2 on government regulation of gambling activities. First of all, I would like to point out that the bill we have drafted is not ideal and has no advantage, but there are shortcomings. However, we believe that it can be accepted as a basis and is a good basis on which the idea of legalization of the gaming business in Ukraine can be worked out. Let us stop at some arguments why we believe that this bill can be a good starting point for our Parliament in an effort to approve the legislative framework for gambling in Ukraine. First of all, our bill already takes into account the observations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Legal Office for the Basic Law 2285, which was introduced by the Government. Secondly, our bill is prepared in close cooperation with international experts who have considerable experience in building a legislative field for gaming in other countries. We tried to learn and absorb the experience of Bulgaria, which was in a similar situation a few years ago, as Ukraine did, and in a short period of time managed to curb the previously uncontrollable sphere. In addition, our bill was examined by a leading international law firm operating in Ukraine. Further comments will be included in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thirdly, our bill proposes a number of innovative ideas that are not in the other bills proposed today for our consideration. First of all, the bill proposes to create a commission to select members of a respected body to control the field of gaming. Let us note that the Commission is invited to include representatives of international organizations, such as Ukraine, in cooperation with finance, economics and anti-corruption in accordance with international treaties. And, in conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u7	Roman Mironovich, I'm sorry, time's up. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Dubinsky Alexandre Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today we're going to be looking at an epoch, I would say a bill, a bill on the legalization of the gaming business. This bill has been very much discussed in the financial committee of Parliament. We've considered all the versions of all the authors, and today we're going to be looking at a unified parliamentary bill of 2285, where I think we've gathered the best that we can get from all the versions that were registered by my colleagues, they were all present in the hall, according to the committee when we discussed this bill. And most importantly, we regulate this bill, we regulate the street. The street, because it's been a major problem for the last 10 years, when there was no Act on the Gambling Business, there was no way to settle this issue, and the playrooms were distributed around the country like mushrooms after the rain. And this law after its adoption, we shut down the possibility of opening playrooms on the streets forever, because we establish a very strict responsibility for such an offence, for running an illegal gaming business. And you can only open playrooms in hotels 3, 4, 5 stars, a casino in five-star hotels. And the slot machines, as an exception, we've only allowed ourselves to be opened in separate buildings of thousands of square meters, where only playrooms can be found. I think it's going to be the beginning of legalization and a transparent gaming market in Ukraine. And I think this is going to be a better opportunity for all of us to take the first step towards filling the budget with transparent sources for this bill. I think the important norm that we're going to present to you today is online casinos, bookmakers and the possibility of so-called betting because these.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u9	Thank you. Alexander Anatolyevich, time is up. Thank you. Ukrainian National Deputy Royal Natalia Yuriyovna. He doesn't insist either. Aren't you going to perform? No, maybe you don't. Are you sure you're going to perform, Natalia Yuriovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, my first concern is to address you as a woman, as a mother, as a man who was approached by thousands of our constituents ten years ago when there was a fully legalized gambling business in our country. And if any of you don't remember how the slot machines and the one-armed bandits were standing at almost every stop, almost in the kindergartens they were starting to place them, it was a wild time when the slot machines took Ukraine. Ten years ago, this decision was taken and the constitutional majority of the hall supported the ban on the gaming business. Sadly, during these ten years, this disgraceful phenomenon has not been eradicated from the country. Sadly, there is still an illegal gambling business. That's why the Opposition Platform for Life team is proposing to give law enforcement right now all the powers that they can, whatever they want, to get rid of this disgrace from our country. It is a disgrace that lies upon each of us when illegal casinos and slot machines exist. So let's protect Ukraine from a disease like Ludomania. Ludomania is a game addiction. And unfortunately, it's much scarier than alcoholism and drug abuse. And that's why now, we think, we have an opportunity with you to protect Ukraine and do everything we can to ensure that our children, future generations of Ukrainians, are protected from that gang business that they want to distribute around our country right now. That's why we're talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u11	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. No, Natalia Yuriovna, I'm sorry. National Deputy of Ukraine Lichman Hanna Vasilovna I'm sorry. Nataluha Dmitry Andriyovich National Deputy of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, your honor, thank you very much. In the alternative project 2285-6 we looked at the game business from three main angles. The first angle is social. We all understand very well, if anyone doesn't know, I think you know that gambling in Ukraine is illegal today. Moreover, the Criminal Code provides for criminal responsibility. Yeah, of course, it's not what we all want, but despite the total and total ban, you all live in cities and see what's happening in fact. In fact, this ban does not work. So the social responsibility is that by legalizing the gaming business, we'll allow white players, white operators to control the list of people suffering from mania, and we'll get illegal slot machines out of the streets. On the other hand, we also have to be aware that if we don't offer an alternative and just re-constitute in the bill that this gaming business is banned, then those machines that are still on the streets today will remain in the shadows. You all know the history of "dry law" when it was criminal responsibility for producing and trading alcoholic beverages, and you all know what that led to -- just to increase the value of illegal alcohol and just to the fact that some mafias and bosses made a lot of money. We have a risk of doing the same story if we don't legalize the gaming business. The second story is economic. The economic story is that this is going to be the coming of the budget. But in terms of industrial protection, I would also like to say about the location of machine manufacturing in Ukraine. If we've already agreed that we're legalizing this direction, let's make sure that Ukrainian producers have the right to localize this product within the territory of the State, and to get the purchase and the corresponding revenue. Third and last, it's social. But here we all came together. He's ideological. This law forbids Russian operators.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u13	Thank you. Dmitry Andriyovich. No, no. Sadly, no. Lichmann Hanna Vasilovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u14	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues, I present to you my bill 2285-7. The bill introduces complex regulation of the gambling market in Ukraine. In particular, there are no residences, casinos, bookmakers’ offices, slot machines, lotteries, poker clubs, and poker tournaments. A system for licensing gambling activities with differentiated licence fees depends on the type of gambling, the number of gaming equipment, and the location of the gaming hall. The project states that an object of real estate in which an entity organizes and conducts gambling may be owned or used on another legal basis. Special requirements are being laid down for the compliance of gaming equipment and software used for gambling with generally accepted international standards, and financial, administrative and criminal responsibility for violations of Ukrainian legislation in the field of gaming is being strengthened. The project is designed to increase the number of licenses in the case of construction of new or reconstructed real estate objects with the creation of hotels in the category of starryness – 5. The project also provides for the exemption from licensing for gambling in casino gambling facilities in the case of the construction of a new emergency complex. In addition to hotels with a category of starryness 5, casinos are also expanded and casinos are allowed to be built in rural resorts with special infrastructure. The Anti-Corruption Committee concluded that the draft bill met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. In this regard, I propose this bill for your consideration, and I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up: two for, two for, and two for, the factions. Venislav Feder Volodymyrovich, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u16	Honorary Presidium, honourable national MPs, we are now considering another very important law with you today, which is called upon to remove the corruption component in the activities of law enforcement agencies, monitoring bodies, to ensure the normal functioning of an important sphere, the economic sphere of social relations in Ukraine. Getting out of the shadow of the gaming business, it has a very wide range of tasks. First of all, it will contribute to a substantial amount of legal revenue coming into the state budget. Secondly, it will allow the legal field to be incorporated into the legal legal regime for the functioning of the casinos. Because today, in Ukraine, the gaming business is banned, but it's enough to go through every city, even the village, to see that many underground gaming facilities work successfully. Of course, they function for the promotion or at least for the permissiveness of those control bodies that are required to monitor the activities of these institutions. So the adoption of the law that we are considering with you today should have a strong enough social impact, bring this business into the legal field and avoid multiple corruption risks. I urge you to support this bill, honourable national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u17	Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u18	Dear friends, it is certainly very noble to continue the meetings on Santa's Day to discuss ten ways to legalize mania. Why is this law a problem? First, Zelensky himself said on October 10 that the casino would only be legalized in five-star hotels. Under this law, they can already stand in three - star hotels. They can stand everywhere because the law provides for the legalization of slot machines and halls, and it is known that these are the most dangerous gambling that is severely regulated everywhere in the world. We'll have them available everywhere. In fact, we're back to the 2009 events when the bandits had to ban this business at all. Clearly, betting is very good. We understand that there are so many Russian firms that are now holding their conference here, how to enter the market today. And tell me, how will you protect your children? They will show the computer their passports when they lose their parents ’ money and become addicted? And tell me, when does betting give you the opportunity to play different kinds of games? The usual lotteries are prohibited, although the usual lotteries of abuse are as low as possible. We're creating an additional government body to regulate this area. Why not Minfin? Let's make an authority to regulate pharmacies. Do we have a lot of money in the budget? We don't have anything to pay from the budget at the end. Finally, it was predicted earlier that money from the gaming business should go to positive things like culture, and I was a supporter of that idea myself. There's a rule about creating a fund in this law, and it says there are license payments going there. But the law itself does not provide for license payments. Because of this, it is a simple, primitive law to legalize all those terrible institutions that have covered all of Ukraine, which, unfortunately, have acted before, and that continue to function under the new government. There is no way to vote for this law. You can vote for normal European regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u19	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska. After that, Belkova Olga Valentinovna and. Is there a motive for everyone? Is there no more motive? Then we go to the vote, four minutes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, well, I want you to hear again. The World Health Organization has acknowledged a serious disease of immigration, a serious disease. Now, if you vote for that bill they're proposing, you say you're a serious disease, let's go around the country. Well, why would you do that? Well, no money, no budget income costs for our children to be exposed to such a disease right now. We can now join you in working together to finally implement the law and protect Ukraine from immigration, to protect Ukraine's future today and the children of Ukraine. In my day, I was the author of a bill banning gaming business. Sadly, in 10 years, the law enforcement system has failed to protect and eradicate this phenomenon. Well, now all the power is in your hands. We're ready to help you with that. Let's give all the tools we need right now, the legislative instruments to punish this illegal casino in place to punish the prisoners. By closing up in jail to solve this issue. Well, why do you say, "We can't make a deal." So let's let everyone create a casino in Ukraine. Well, according to your law, here in the Supreme Council, you can put "one-handed thugs" right under the dome. Would you like to sit down and play the casino now? Ladies and gentlemen, let's go! Let's defend Ukraine! Let's ban the game business! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, it's Belkova Olga Valentinovna. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies, and they are a little quiet in the hall. Thank you. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! The Voice faction allowed me to use it. Dear colleagues, the Voice faction allowed me to use their time today. My faction and the Voice faction have enough legal motivation today to present our version of our non-vote. Even the dry statistics on psychomaniac statistics today show that the problem in the world is becoming more or less serious than addiction to alcoholism and drug abuse. According to the MOH, psychophysical personality destruction is much more common among psychos than among drug addicts. But today I decided to tell you a personal story. I want everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, please be quiet for a moment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u24	I want to help everyone in this room understand that the consequences of your decisions can be very close to you. My name is Olga. And in my family, there is a person who is addicted to gambling. What you call dry, ludomania, is the nightmare of my life and the drama of the last eight years. A dependant in my family hid his addiction, but it began to develop at the age of 19 or 18. Believe me, no one in my family ever took him or took him to any of the casinos or offered to play. I wasn't in it myself, and I don't play games like that. That's why it's totally unacceptable to have rules of law, all the laws that now actually legalize the access of young people with immature mentality to these institutions, starting at 18, especially online. How will you check their age there? In time, my addict’s behavior led to the loss of friends, lies, and constant debts. Neither conversation nor intimidation nor rehabilitation centers nor military service nor communication with the family helped. Meanwhile, my family became the object of constant appeals by creditors, blackmail, and threats. An addict in a state of excitement has absolutely no control over himself. Believe me, they're lying because they want to play, not because they want to cheat. Covering up my name, I promised to do things that I had nothing to do with, and I can’t stop it. I always beg you, don't lend money to people like that. I'm warning everyone I know about this. But that doesn't help. So your register is an absolute fiction. He won't solve anything. What exactly does the Ministry of Finance want to tax in this situation? You're talking about 4 billion dollars. And how much does a Ukrainian company have to lose to pay 4 billion? Be honest and tell yourself that this is 40 billion dollars that you have to lose. Not someone out there, but maybe there are people in this room, and I know exactly what they've been through, or their children have been through it. Like my son in Europe today, from 1 to 6 percent, there's a direct correlation, look at the research, between when the country legalizes and when there's a surge of addicts. You won't see them, you won't tell them apart from junkies, from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u25	Let me finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, this disease has no barriers — neither social nor gender nor age. And when you tell me what it is, there are murders, too, but you don't issue licenses. You will not force us to sanctify us today. [[Applause]] To sanctify on Santa's Day those who ruined my son's life. You don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act on State regulation of activities in the field of organization and gambling (registration number 2285-d). Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[16:47:45.]] For 213 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the committee for a re-read. Let's see the factions. Another second. First reading of the draft Act on State regulation of activities in the field of organization and gambling (registration number 2285-d). Please support and vote. [[16:48:32]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 222, "The Opposition Platform" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 5, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 12, "the Non-Factional" – 4. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to extend the measures related to the renewal of the activities of the National Stock Exchange Association BlackMornaftogaz (Registration No. 2432). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:49:30.]] For 254 Decision taken. The report is given to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Gerus Andry Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u28	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The state-owned BlackMornaftogaz stock company to transfer the illegal Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea to the property of the Republic of Crimea has extracted about 2 billion metres of cubic natural gas from the Black Sea shelf. Today, the Black Mornaftegas, 100 percent of whose shares belong to the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine, is in possession of the Strilkova family in the region of Genichev and the Titan-2 crane-mounting vessel located in Mexico and arrested by the creditor. The company also has a loan debt of some 13 billion dollars that arose prior to the occupation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Despite this leadership, BlackMornaftogaz is making every effort to restore economic activity. The company is the only one in Ukraine who has experience in extracting hydrocarbons from the marine shelf and specializes in such activities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted laws in 2018 aimed at preventing the bankruptcy of BlackMornaftogaz and restoring its productive activities. It should be noted that BlackMornaftegaz is a participant of three international courts against the Russian Federation, by which Ukraine tries to stop the violation by the Russian Federation of the Convention and to protect its rights in the Black Sea, the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait, including the rights to the natural resources of the continental shelf of Crimea; to compensate for the loss of assets of Naftogaz Ukraine in Crimea; to recognize the illegal occupation of Crimea; to compensate for the damage caused by occupation; to record violations of the constitutional rights of citizens who were in occupation. In view of the above, the preservation of the legal person of the Black Mornaftegas as a participant in international courts and the restoration of its full work is strategically important for ensuring Ukraine's energy security. In view of the above, Bill 2432 proposes temporarily to remove the arrests and prohibitions on the alienation of assets from the Black Mornaphtogaz dates in executioners by December 31, 2022.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u29	Thank you, Andry Mikhailovich. No, it's not. From the committee? Okay. Please include the time of Gerus as the committee head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u30	In this regard, make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct. He also suggests that by December 31, 2022, the bankruptcy case of the National Shareholders Association of BlackMornaftogaz should not be violated. In this regard, the Codex on Bankruptcy should be amended accordingly. The Committee on Energy and Housing Services at its meeting on 4 December 19th reviewed Project 2432 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading to accept it as a basis and in general, I stress, on the basis and as a whole. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? No, it's not. Can we put it to a vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. Dear colleagues, now on the basis, after that in general. I would like to propose to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to extend measures related to the renewal of the activities of the National Association of Stock Exchanges of Blackmorenephtogaz (Registration No. 2432). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:53:45]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law (registration number 2432). Please support and vote. [[16:54:19]] For 294 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with proposals from the President of Ukraine (since 23.09.2019). Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u32	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted by Parliament on 6 June 2019, was not signed by the President of Ukraine, as far as its positions do not conform to the constitutional principles of the rule of law and the division of state authority. In particular, it is not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, since it does not define the limits for the interim commission of inquiry to exercise parliamentary control. The other one. It is possible to regulate, organize and organize the commission by decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not by law alone, as provided for in part five of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The same requirements are laid down for the establishment of commissions that are established for various purposes under the Constitution and for the possibility of creating special committees for the preparation and prior consideration of other issues referred to the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine largely reflect a number of substantive and editorial differences, including some of the reasons for the suspension of temporary special commissions. In view of the shortcomings involved, the provisions of the law do not correspond to the principle of legal certainty as part of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. And finally. The Head of State also disagrees with the proposed legal approach to settling one legislative act on the organization of temporary investigators and temporary special commissions, as well as a special interim commission of inquiry, since their status and order of action differ significantly. This approach, according to the President of Ukraine, is unjustifiable and does not come out of the Constitution of Ukraine. Taking into account the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes to align this law with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution. In view of the above, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u33	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u34	The honourable Presidium, the distinguished National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting considered the Law on Temporary Commissions, the Special Temporary Commissions, and the Temporary Special Commissions, as well as the President’s proposals. On September 23, the President's proposals came to Parliament, stating that the law that came to be signed did not conform to the constitutional principles of the rule of law, the division of state power, and returned the law for reconsideration and proposed to reconcile its position with the Constitution. In general, the President has six comments, some of which are made up of some of the suggestions that are presented in the comparative table that is given to you. The President's proposals take into account that Parliament adopted on 10 September 2019 the Act on the Special Procedure for the Removal of the President of Ukraine from a Post (Impeachment) which amended the Supreme Council Rules and already took into account part of the provisions concerning the Special Interim Investigation Commission on the question of the commission of treason or other crime, which was also subject to regulation of the law on which the President applied the veto. The committee then decided to support the President’s proposal from the first to the third and from the fifth to the tenth. At the same time, proposal number four on the listing of grounds for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, which the President believes is not exhaustive, suggests that the committee reject. The Committee noted that the decision to establish a temporary commission of inquiry was taken by Parliament within the limits of the powers provided for in the Constitution. In addition, the Committee noted that the Constitution does not reveal the term "social interest", which is evaluative and its criteria may change over time, and therefore cannot be formalized in law. The Committee also drew attention to paragraph 1 of section XI, paragraph 3, of the “Ending Positions”, of the law, which provided for amendments to the relevant provisions of articles 351, 385 of the Criminal Code concerning the restriction of activities, particularly the special interim commission of inquiry. And in view of proposals number one, which excludes section IV of the Special Temporary Investigation Commission from the text, as well as the Act on the Special Procedure for the removal of the President from office (impicment) of September 10 of last year, which has already amended these articles of the Criminal Code. Therefore, this sub-paragraph is proposed to be deleted. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus also concludes that the President's remarks are partial. Thus, the regulatory committee has taken a decision and recommends that the Supreme Council consider the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u35	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Questions. A couple of Andrew Volodymyrovichs, and then we go to the vote. One minute, and then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u36	Dear colleagues. Turn it off. It's not Paris. It's not Paris. Switch to the board, please. Thank you. So, unfortunately, your colleagues today were a little bit of abusing the Electoral Code, shortening it, and abusing the law on temporary commissions of inquiry. I recall that the law in the previous summons had united the entire hall, but somehow President Greensky, contrary to the law and the Constitution, had amended it and vetoed it three months later. For what purpose? To throw out that chapter about the President's impeachment, because there was a very logical and realistic impeachment procedure. Instead, you passed a law that actually makes impeachment impossible, in fact, you cut down and destroyed the TSC Act. But despite this, "European solidarity" will still vote in favour, because even in that carved form, it supports parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u37	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u38	Please state, in accordance with the law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u39	Would you like to ask a question? No, it was already there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u40	Hello, is the microphone working? Sergey Vitaliyovich, please tell us in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine how to take those into account. How do you take into account the president's remarks, which allows for a vote of 226 or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u41	I can't hear you. Well, the point is that the regulatory committee is proposing to reject and disregard the President's fourth proposal, so I think that's where the proposal should go for each. The first three should be supported and the fourth parliament should be determined, and with regard to the fifth and the tenth, the Committee feels that the President’s proposals should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, regarding the President's proposals. The first, the second, was taken into account by the committee. The fourth was rejected. All the other President's proposals were taken into account. That's why I'm going to put all the proposals separately on the vote. Please prepare for the vote. And then in general, of course, and then in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u43	No, 226. 300 is if. So you can't make a vow. Right? Yeah. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'll bet you vote number one, offer, excuse me, number one of the Presidents of Ukraine. She was counted by the committee. Ready to vote? Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, please. I'll bet you the President's number one vote. Please support and vote. [[17:06:17]] For 277 Decision taken. I bet the president's number two vote was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:06:40]] For 291 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on President number three. It is also considered by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:07:04]] For 289 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the fourth amendment was rejected by the committee, so I'm voting on President number four. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:07:37]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Edit number five. Proposal No. 5 of the President of Ukraine She was counted by the committee. Wait a minute. Please support and vote. [[17:08:16]] For 285 Decision taken. Edit included. The offer is included. Proposal number six of the President of Ukraine. It was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:08:39]] For 284 The offer is included. The proposal number seven of the President of Ukraine was taken into account by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:09:04]] For 284 The decision is taken, the offer is taken into account. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal number eight of the President of Ukraine. It was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:09:46]] For 285 The decision is taken, the offer is taken into account. I'm betting on the vote number nine of the President of Ukraine. She was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:10:14]] For 288 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Proposal number ten of the President of Ukraine. It was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[17:10:40]] For 288 The President's proposal is taken into account. Dear colleagues, of the ten proposals, one was rejected and nine were taken into account. I'm betting on a vote on a proposal for acceptance in general. I'm out of procedure. I'm out of procedure. Papieuve is a procedure. Vlasenko is out of procedure. Okay. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, you know, in principle, it's a normal law that just reinforces the control functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But before the vote, I would like to remind the Ukrainian National Deputies of the complex history of this law, and to make sure that you realize that your vote will now be contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. The point is that this law was sent to the President of Ukraine for signature on June 12, 2019. In accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President was obliged to sign the law and make it public for 15 days, either to return it with proposals or from the veto to the Supreme Council. This project, which is currently under consideration, was sent to the President on September 29th of this year, which is the term that was violated. Under the Constitution, this law is considered to be approved by the President of Ukraine and must be made public. That's why your vote is now against the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u45	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Head. Without denying what has just been said, I want to point out from procedural questions. In accordance with article 135, paragraph 5, when all proposals by the President of Ukraine are adopted, the law is considered to be accepted in general if it has been voted for by most national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition. Paragraph 6 of the same article: "If the Supreme Council has partially accepted the President's proposal -- this is our case -- and voted in favour of the law by at least two thirds of the votes of the people's deputies from the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, it is re-adopted by the veto." This is our situation. We need 300 votes now. I'm paying attention to this to the head of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u47	Head of the committee, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u48	Yes, indeed, if the law is now passed by a total of 300 votes, it will testify to the defeat of the veto, because Parliament has rejected 1 presidential proposal. If the law is now passed by a constitutional majority, 226, it will testify that the President will still have the veto right to this law again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u49	The Prince of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u50	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, we shouldn't confuse two things. If the President proposes to reject the bill as a whole, then the Supreme Council can overtake the veto for two thirds and leave the previous draft of the bill. What Vlasenko said is another situation. This is in this case, if there are specific proposals and one, for example, is not taken into account, as in this case, then the Supreme Council can accept this bill in a new edition. But not less than two thirds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should vote for this. That's why we have to vote now for at least two thirds and accept it in a new edition, taking into account the President's partial rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u51	Ladies and gentlemen. No, they were from the faction, Julia Volodymyrna. The faction was one of the factions. Dear colleagues, let's vote. No, you've been acting out of procedure, Your Honor. Three hundred, I get it. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 23.09.2019. Please support and vote. Wait. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Three hundred. We're in the voting process. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:16:18]] For 337 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on simplifying investment participation and introducing new financial instruments. — Registration Nos. 2284, 2284-1. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:17:06]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u52	Dear friends, we are all thinking with you about the question and looking for the answer: Why is our country poor? Why are other countries with much less natural resources richer in the meantime? Maybe because we don't know how to produce capital using our own resources, capital that can produce profits. There are about 600 commodity markets in Ukraine, but there is no index, that is, an objective price, for the product that Ukraine is famous for, which would have been used in our country, let alone the world. Farmers cannot sell their products at an objective, market - priced price. No one can guarantee the fulfillment of the covenants. We don't use tools that are known in the world and are called derivatives or derivative securities. Our stock market is underdeveloped. It's our inability to produce capital. "Capital is a force that increases the productivity of the work and creates the wealth of the country, it's the blood of the capitalist system, the cornerstone of progress and the only thing poor countries can't do for themselves, no matter how their population gets involved in the business of the capitalist economy." This is the quote where Soto is a world economist, and this is a quote about us. Bills submitted for consideration: Law 2284 and Law 2284-1 are bills that regulate this situation. Both bills implement Ukraine's national legislation with the key directives of the European Union that regulate this activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u53	From the committee, add 2 minutes as from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u54	Thank you. They are different because the basic bill proposes to amend the legislation on the stock market, that is, securities and commodity markets, and that is an alternative to securities legislation. The National Securities and Stock Market Commission supports the basic bill. The National Bank also supports the basic bill and the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Of course, the bill is not ideal. Of course, he needs further work, and in the decision of the committee, when we consider the bill, we have noted a number of points that need to be taken into account in the second reading, and we will do so by means of the filing of rights. But it should finally be accepted as a basis, because it went to Parliament and previous calls several times and was not supported by those interested in the current state of capital markets in Ukraine. In view of this, I'm asking you to support the base, and that is, in fact, the committee's decision to take it as a basis. And I want to remind you of a legend about an Indian merchant who was foretold to receive a great treasure. And he traveled the whole world, and he did not find the treasure. Upon returning to his home, he wanted to drink and came to the well and saw that it was muddy. He started digging a well and found the world's largest diamond vein, the Holcond. Let's find it in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u55	Thank you. As for the alternative, reports National Deputy Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u56	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, you now have Bills 2284 and 2284-1 on your hands. I ask you to listen carefully. It's a government monster, a monopolist, who's going to eat up all the markets. None of you, I don't think, mind financial markets. And we have no right today to violate European standards. Because against Law 2284 and European associations, both stockholders and merchants are all. Today, Bill 2284, which our colleagues have proposed to us today, fully duplicates Bill 9035, which has also been pushed by the National Commission of Securities, and deliberately wants to pass this bill today. I urge everyone to read carefully again the accounts of these two bills. We don't have the right today to create a financial market and put a monopoly in our hands in general to fully manage markets, energy markets that have been built here for all five years, gas, oil markets. Today, honourable colleagues, there are such remarks to Bill 2284. Against him and the NCRECR, and the DRC, I've already said, the European Financial Association, also the National Regulator and European Energy Co-operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u57	Thank you. Sergei Volodymyrovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against the factions. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u58	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u59	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, everything would have been fine if it hadn't been for so many observations and for the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and in principle for regulators. That's just an example of when we had to make two bills worked on the committee and put them into a hall that was acceptable to all of us. But you and I agreed on a committee that we would definitely get the conclusion of the Supreme Council Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union and then we would just take a decision on this bill. That is the conclusion. And I want to stress that this is actually one of the priority areas in which Ukrainian legislation is being adapted to European Union legislation. However, the Committee notes that the EU's right provides for separate regulation of commodity, financial and energy markets by different operators. Therefore, the proposal for a bill granting powers to regulate these different sectors to one operator is contrary to EU law. The first conclusion. And the other one. Given that this law amends the Ukrainian Law on the Electricity Market, which we talked about at the committee meeting, this bill has to be accepted by the European Commission, and without this agreement such changes cannot be accepted. That is why we will abstain from voting on two bills. And I suggest you go to the committee for re-reading, then, really, this bill can go into the hall and be ready for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u61	Krulko Ivanovich. Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Head, for the presidency. Dear colleagues, indeed, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u63	Olga Valentine's Day, please sit down, because you're not being heard, you're not saying in the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u64	Okay. In fact, we can say that this bill is quite pervasive. He was examined several times by the previous cadence, and each time he was not happy, in fact, the market players had a lot of warnings. And it seems to me that today, the presence of the chairman of the Securities Commission, I would like to ask for this opportunity. Dear Timur, I think this time we need to listen very actively to business, you know. And listen to them because we're risking this bill the next time. One of the most sensitive issues is the regulation of commodity markets. You and I have discussed this, it remains a problem, and we are obliged to find a form of regulation here that will not frighten the market. The other one. Private accommodation, license. You've heard the warnings of the entire market. Our faction at this stage will refrain from supporting this bill. At the same time, we understand how important it is to accept it. This is really one of those reforms that can actually involve good investments in Ukraine. We will constructively support you in the process of preparing for second reading, or the updated version, as proposed by the EC Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u65	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u66	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Again, we have the main reporter of this bill, and the speakers, and those who will vote, according to the principle of the law that they introduced on the land market, they want to hide the basics -- that Ukraine today is under external administration, and we have the vast majority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine working today, not for Ukraine's sake, but for the interests of the owners who are outside Ukraine. I want to prove by this same law that you're actually hiding one thesis in it for which, I think, you've already gotten the wrong benefit because you really want to go through with it. I'm going to read to the Ukrainian citizens that what you want to hide and introduce is the right of a foreign issuer to grant a right. produce emission or circulation of securities in Ukraine. I mean, in fact, you're introducing this law to export capital from Ukraine for the sake of again and again, "sorcery" and other foreign agents. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go. You want to sell land to foreigners, you want to sell businesses to foreigners, what are you going to leave behind? I understand that you are not connecting your future with Ukraine, and today you are even teaching your children all outside of Ukraine, and your basic homes are outside of Ukraine. But one day, I think in Ukraine, the real Ukrainians will ask you about it and give you a proper not only emotional evaluation, but also a legal evaluation. And I think that the issue of extradition is going to apply to a large number of people in this room. We will not vote in favour of this law, but we will vote against it. We're for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u67	Shahov is now motivated. The Voice, the Ironborn, for reasons, then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I fully agree with Papiev on this point that today Law 2284 does not meet European standards at all and it does, once again, a monster in the financial market and in all markets -- it's oil, it's electricity, it's gas. We've worked very well with a team of experts in this process, and I'm asking you to support Bill 2284-1, which completely excludes from the regulator all the functions that this monopoly will perform. We will still give him the opportunity to punish those who will work illegally, but he has no right today to violate business processes. Let's not interfere in business, let's develop and fill the budget of Ukraine. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u69	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u70	Dear colleagues, I have already seen for the fifth time this bill in various convocations is trying to accept the Supreme Council. Regrettably, there was no political will before it, or a fine bill, it was irrelevant. This bill will not at the same time create us a financial market, not a new opportunity, but it lays the foundation, the infrastructure through which we should finally have modern financial instruments and commodity markets. We will support this bill in the first reading. We will work together with the entire committee to ensure that we finally have new financial instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of proposals by the Committee of the Draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify investment participation and introduce new financial instruments (new edition) (registration No. 2284). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:33:19]] For 244 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the issue of amber production (registration number 2244). Reported to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich. Excuse me, 2240.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u72	2240. Good afternoon, dear fellows! All the years of independence, the problem of illegal amber production was either ignored or merely declared a desire to solve it, in fact, without taking any effective steps in that direction. This has led to the development of illegal mining and the emergence of organized criminal communities that have taken control of the sector. In fact, illegal production has acquired a natural character, resulting in more than 18,000 hectares of damaged land in the Plains, Zitomir, Volin areas, mainly forest funds, which have resulted in irreversible environmental consequences that cannot be ignored anymore, and billions of losses caused to budgets of all levels. The main reason for this is the whole range of problems faced by potential drug users, especially the local population, who, even with the desire to start legal business with amber mining, cannot approach it. In particular, these are long-standing conciliation procedures at both local and central levels, a complicated procedure for obtaining special permits for the use of nadrams, for the setting up of land for the use of nadrams, and for the duration of the preparation of permits. All of this creates barriers to development in Ukraine's legal amber sector, to participation in this field of investment, to new technologies, to increasing the standard of living of the population at the site of amber production, to filling budgets of all levels, to ensuring environmental protection during drilling and to addressing the issue of recycling of damaged land through illegal production. The purpose of the bill was to propose to the local population of the Plains, Žitomirsk, Volinsk regions involved in illegal amber mining, legal alternatives, and the way out of the shadows by simplifying the procedure for special permits for the use of nadrama in damaged areas and creating favourable conditions for development in Ukraine in the mining sector. At the same time, the aim of the bill was to enforce the increase in penalties for illegal mining. All comments and suggestions made by Ukrainian national deputies are presented in a comparative table. Thank you very much to the working group that was created on the committee, for carefully developing these rights and for working on the bill. The total number of 141 allowances is 45, 48 is rejected, and most of the discounted rights are laws about those parts of the bill that were not discussed in the first reading. As a result, a number of changes were made to the comparative table. In particular, the committee is invited to issue amendments 57, 63, 134, and 138. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted in a second reading, generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u73	Thank you. Edit No. 3, Cosemyakin. Don't insist. Pasic is 4. Drabovsky is 5. Will you insist on your work? No, it's not. Pasic. And tell me, colleagues, will someone insist on their work? I see, yes, I see. Once again: Coltunovich, Mamka, Batenko, Labunska Everything? And Bobrowski, okay. Batenko, 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u74	Dear friends, this bill excludes the authorization of the District, Kiev City and the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to agree to give nadrs to the use of geological exploration and development of beneficial fossils of state-wide importance. In doing so, similar powers of local lower-level self-government, i.e. at the level of OTG, rural, rural, urban district councils on consent -- similarly to nadra, we leave in law. Why are we taking the district councils and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? Are we changing the Constitution already? Please consider this amendment. The same applies to amendment number 13. Thank you. Please put to the vote Amendment No. 9 and Amendment No. 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number nine of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[17:38:34]] For the 120th. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. I'm betting on the vote number 13 of the Batenka People's Deputies. The office, the committee didn't take it into account, sorry. Please identify and vote. [[17:39:00]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 10, Labunsky. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u76	Dear Chairman, I ask you to give me three minutes, I will speak and I will no longer insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u77	Please turn on Angela Victoria's three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u78	I will no longer insist on any other kind of regulation. I want to tell you that unfortunately, I think both MPs and society were expecting a little bit of a different law. Dear Mr. President was in Zitomirsk and promised to settle matters by the end of the year. Unfortunately for the most part, the question is, there is no chapter "Old People" in this law at all. Therefore, the honourable deputy-majors of three areas: Equine, Žitomir, Volinj – people's issues are not regulated by this law at all. Dear Mr. Costus of "Serve of the People," if you're already going to solve a question, you, if you remember, under the transcript, were an alternative bill from your colleague, Mr. Costuck, and under the transcript we agreed that we were rejecting that bill, and his bill was included in this bill in the chapter. It's about people. You think you're gonna shut down the woods and not let people get amber? You will see the consequences of this law. That's the first question. The second question. Sadly, the amber law has been transformed. Everything is included in this law. Unfortunately, there was little we could do on the committee because this law applied to both oil and gas and all other fossil fuels. So, honourable Members, I think very few have read this bill. And I think you'll still feel the consequences in three areas. That's the first one. Fatherland won't support this bill. As far as number 10 is concerned. I'll have her put to the vote. This refers to the restriction of district councils to intervene in these matters. We see, unfortunately, that today the current power instead of decentralization is completely centralizing all power in Kiev and completely eliminating communities and people in general in addressing these issues. I want to tell you that this law provided for terrible things. I don't even know how to write like that. This law was provided for. If the legislation had previously provided for the removal of land for social purposes, today, if the neighbor had a license, in business structure, the law gave the court the right to delete property rights from people. Thank God some Majors of the People's Service have come to their senses, and we've fixed it on the committee. So once again, the "Paternity" party won't vote to support this bill. Because the basic question of humans is not solved. And I'm asking you to put just one confirmation order-- 10th, that's about district council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u79	10 revisions I suggest you put in at the end. We're going to ask for confirmation on all the changes that will insist on confirmation. I heard number 10. Next line 11, Bobrowski. Don't insist. Thank you. Replica, yes, Kostuk. Turn it on, please. Dmitri, you've been remembered. Turn on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u80	Thank you. Dmitri Kostuk, Zitomiršina. I share Mrs. Labunsky's concerns. In fact, this bill is imperfect. As I spoke from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, I noted that he was no longer talking about legalization. But on the other hand, this bill is a law that regulates a lot of important things. I hope that he will allow a measure of illegal amber production to be overcome. On the other hand, it insists on what needs to be done and adopted and, as soon as possible, a new bill that will apply to so - called guardians so that it is indeed legalization. Those who are now engaged in illegal amber mining to register, to do so legally, to receive funds, to feed their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, license number 35, Vasilenko. Is he insisting? You won't insist. Rustling. Don't insist. Spins don't insist. I see, Taras Ivanovich. I'll come to your right, I'll give it to you right away. Aliksiyczuk. Don't insist. Replica on 38th. Labunski. How can you give a replica? Huh? No, it's not. What's the line? Thank you. 59th, Mama.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, with this right, I propose the establishment of a simple compensation mechanism for the state and local self-government authorities for not doing any work on land recuperation. Procedure: He obtained a permit for drilling; he paid the local budget within 5 days; he obtained amber by obtaining a license; and then he recovered and received insurance from local authorities. Then it'll be true, then it won't be a natural loss, and then these enterprises won't go bankrupt, stay out of jobs, do jobs, they'll still follow those rules. the conservation of forests, lands, soils and all other fossils in the territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u83	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u84	Indeed, it is a matter of great importance. Indeed, it is not partially regulated by this bill. We've already talked to Kabmin about what we need to work on. Unfortunately, however, we cannot take this into account because this amendment requires amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 59 of Mamka's National MP to the vote. The committee doesn't take it into account. Please identify and vote. [[17:46:45.]] Z-71 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Amendment number 60, Aliksiyczuk. Aren't you going to insist on your work? Thank you. Mother, 62nd. Don't you insist? Are you going to insist on everyone? One correction. 62 redundancies, Mamka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u86	If we have a problem with someone getting amber illegally. Or we could ask for silence in the hall, because, well, it's impossible to work. Well, it's easy for the chairman. Well, you can be quiet in the hall, well, you can't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall, because it's really not clear what the reporters are talking about. Dear colleagues, the more we talk, the more we will sit in the hall and work. I think we can wait. Dear colleagues! Please, can I have some quiet in the hall? Thank you. Grigory Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u88	In order not to get amber illegally, so that those who are rural citizens who are mined if they are not organizers of large cartels and all that. Most of the money is made by those who buy and resell amber in amber. In order to stop this action, which has such a phenomenon in Ukraine, it is simply necessary to introduce a criminal responsibility to smuggle amber in two points. And after the detention of those who are simply speculating on the mines that are illegally exporting from Ukraine, there will be attraction, amber removal, and then this phenomenon will simply lose its necessity in Ukraine. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u89	I'm betting on a vote of 62, Mamka's national deputy. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u90	To reject this amendment, since this amendment, these positions were not considered in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u91	I'm betting on the vote number 62, National MP Mama. It's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:49:48]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Taras Ivanovich, 15, is included. No, 15th, it's counted as what to put it on. Unless it's for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u92	Dmitri Alexanderovich, I have a general offer for you. It seems to me that our Parliament is not quite in the legislative process right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u93	I can't hear you, reporter, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Taras Ivanovich, 15 revisions are included. No, for reasons, unfortunately, no. How's the motive? When we get there, I'll give you my word. 64th, Mama. Don't you insist on your work anymore? Ten seconds? Please give Mommy 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u94	Thank you very much. I'll be in in 10. Indeed, it is impossible to work in this room. The law is really important. Indeed, the question of how to deal with this problem has been heartened. But noise, ham. And in my opinion, it would still be better to work out this law. And to work for the benefit of Ukraine, not just it went into the hall and just existed as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u95	Don't you insist on voting? Thank you. Kulinich, 93 revisions. Don't insist. Stefanchuk, Halimon. Don't insist, I understand. Road trip, 112th. Don't you insist? We've been through everything, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Another 10 confirmations. Please prepare for the vote. Angela Viktorovna Labunska applied for 10 confirmations. She was counted by the committee. 10th on the count. Yeah? I'm sorry. Amendment No. 10 of the People's Deputy of Labunski. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[17:53:00]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of amber production (registration No. 2240). Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:54:00]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Standardization of the Rate of Rent for the Use of Burst Crops, and it is suggested that you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:54:33]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the deputy minister of the economy and environmental protection of Abraham Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u96	Good evening, Your Honor, Good evening, Honourable People's Deputies, Draft Law on Amendments to Article 252 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Standardization of the Rate of Rent for the Use of Burst Drums (Registration No. 2241 of 08.10.2019), which is derived from Bill 2240. The bill proposes to reduce, the text of the bill drafted by Minecoenergo, proposed to reduce the rent on amber from 25 per cent to 15. However, members of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy supported the bill’s motivation and suggested that the committee’s decisions should reduce the rate to 10 percent. Minecoenergo supports this decision and asks for the support of the bill as a law. What do we get out of this? First of all, the reduction of tax burden on honest taxpayers who carry out legitimate activities of amber mining. Second, stimulating operators to carry out appropriate activities. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u97	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs. Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Kovalczuk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u98	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, many years in Ukraine have been talking about the need to legalize amber production, under which our country is one of the European leaders. But the law has not yet been approved, although it has been approved today, the report has been prepared earlier. Draft Law 2241 amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Standardization of the Rate of Wages for the Use of Burst Crops, which we are currently considering, is integrated into draft laws 2240 and 2242. Its main objective is to address the issue of amber mining in part of the reduction in the wage rate for the use of drums for the purpose of stimulating and directing this activity in a legislatively defined way. I'm going to point out that the increase in wages from 5 to 25 percent took place in the 16th year, but not only did the decision not bring illegal production out of the shadows, but the result was that the revenue to the state budget was shrinking rapidly. The members of the financial committee at their meeting on November 13th, 19th, supported the initiative of the bill and the proposal to include in the text the following: in section I of the bill, the figure "15" should be replaced by "10". Taking into account the relevance of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Standardization of the Rate of Wages for the Use of Burst Extraction Drums (Registration No. 2241), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made at the meeting of the Committee for Proposals to the text of the draft. I would like my colleagues to support this important bill. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Yeah? Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u100	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. In fact, this bill has come to light, and it can be said that it has already been overlooked in our society, because all of Parliament's calls have been about the need to legalize this market, everyone has said that in the Plains region we already have Mars, not the Plains region, that all of these legal relations need to be settled, and finally political will has emerged to implement all of these points. It is good that the bill introduces responsibility for illegal amber production. The second point, which is very important, is that everyone who extracts amber will have to lead to the right state of the land where such beneficial fossils have been mined. So I urge you to support this bill. Obviously, it's a very complicated process, because there's a mob in there, and there's a gang of thugs who's in there, and there's a police force that's not the new police who's been cracking all these questions. This is the whole industry where millions and millions of dollars are made. So all of these points in the bill are called upon to resolve this situation. It's a very difficult way, but we have to start and finish this disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine. We support, we vote only with a green button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u101	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, in fact, we also share very much the problem that needs to be solved. But if you're going to make a decision, let's solve it in a complex, because the basic bill that we just passed, the honourable colleagues, 8 pages of comments on regulations that don't meet the principle of legal certainty. So it's impossible to do that. How, then, do we begin to carry them out? To solve this problem, it must be resolved both by amending both the Tax Code and the Codex Budget. Why is it not now the third issue of amending the Codex Budget? You've broken the question, and it doesn't seem to be complex anymore. I see that the complex solution to the problem of illegal amber mining should include the following elements: it's the financial interest of drug users, it's the financial interest of local governments and the social interest of local people. Otherwise it won't work. Do we take into account the financial interests of drug users? Do you think lowering the rent rate from 25 percent to 10 percent will bring something? No, the stakes should be stimulating. It has to be at the lowest level right now and then rise from year to year to offer people an incentive to pay taxes, a reduced tax rate, for example, for the first year, for the 20th year, for example, 5 percent, for the following year -- 7.5 and so on. Is the financial interest of local governments determined? No, it's not. What would they be interested in if they stayed in the general local fund for only 30 percent of the rent and all the rest went up? They are not interested in combating illegal amber mining and in carrying out any activities that depend on them. Do we choose the social interests of the local people? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u103	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I felt, frankly, when I was in Parliament today, that I had this feeling that we were, and more specifically, those drafters of the laws and those who formed the agenda were living in a completely different reality. We first voted on the gaming business, then on the other draft laws, and now we're downgrading the rent for amber. I would also like to pay attention, first and foremost, to economic relevance. The economic relevance and even justification of the parameters that this is going to give seems, frankly, questionable. The second very important point that we have to take into account is the reduction and impact on budgets of all levels, and the coming of, including local budgets, to the budget that has been drawn up from the use of nadrama. And another very important moment. If we're talking about social aspects, today we have a daily draft of Law 2126, which is focused on reducing or eliminating the rent on gas for the population. The gas that goes is then put into heating tariffs, hot water supply. Here's the national interest, where the interest of Ukrainian citizens is, where growth and purchasing power, real income and many other things. So I'm pointing out to you that, of course, the bill is not in time for rent cuts, but I'm again addressing our esteemed chairman, and to you, colleagues, to support our initiative and 2126. And they said we have to solve the issue, not with amber, but with the gas that goes to the population. This is where the interests of Ukrainian citizens are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u105	Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u106	Would you pass it on to Olga Belkov, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u107	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, indeed, the issue that we are discussing right now needs to be settled. On the committee, we had this discussion about lowering rent rates, and I was a little surprised. Surprised by the position of Minfin, who was unable to explain how the decreases were based on exactly 15 percent if a completely different figure was requested in the previous version. Next, about the tax base. None of the experts were able to explain the amount of the rent. I know a lot about this kind of discussion because I used to deal with the question of an incentive rate for gas rent. I hear constant discussions about ore. And there's a very technologically technical discussion where there's a justification for every amount. Unfortunately, this bill did not provide us with such information. I trust experts completely, but my job is to check everything out. It seems to me that it would be appropriate to support this bill in the first reading and continue, between the first and the second readings, to undertake a more accurate economic analysis of what benefit and what stimulus the relevant branch receives. In general, we support the idea itself, but we ask for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Let's go to the vote for the law. Honorable colleagues, the committee recommended a basis for the whole as well. Would you please tell me, in general, are you ready to vote? No, it's not. Three factions, I see. Okay. On the basis of that, then. Is everyone ready to vote on the basis? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 252 of the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Standardization of the Rate of Wages for the Use of Burst Machines (Registration No. 2241). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:07:20]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you. 265. Let's see the factions. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on personal voting by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u110	Good afternoon! Good day, Your Honourable Chairman, Your Honor. Well, given the fact that the "honestly" public movement today has recorded buttoning, but our colleagues have already used, not their hands, but the other limbs for willing, I think this will be the most topical issue in the daytime. The bill proposes the establishment of criminal responsibility for the deliberate execution by the Ukrainian national deputy at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the vote instead of another Ukrainian national deputy (unofficial vote). The committee’s decision recommended the adoption of a bill in second reading and generally as a law. 79 amendments were made, of which 22 were included, including those partially and editorially counted. 57 amendments were rejected during the committee’s consideration. Before the second reading, such changes took place. The proposal for a change in the title of the bill is taken into account, namely, the proposed clarification "in plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". The question of the criminal responsibility of national MPs has been settled only in the event of a deliberate, non-personal vote. Also included is the proposal to refer accredited journalists to the Supreme Council’s Apparatus in the event of violations of the requirements for personal voting. There was a big discussion on the committee, where to put it anyway, is this socially dangerous act of crime going on? Is this a disciplinary responsibility or an administrative one? Maybe it's worth replacing with the "Race" system? But given the social resonance and the facts that are happening all the time in our room, and none of the responsibilities can convince our colleagues that they can't do that, we still think that criminal rights must carry out their prevention and prevent such a crime in the future. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure personal voting by the Ukrainian people's deputies (Registration No. 2148) on second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, would you please insist on your work? It will be. It's gonna be a settlement, Batenko, Mama. Who else? All of it. It's a two-pronged settlement. What? The number line? Two minutes, okay. Osadchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, we've talked about this a number of times, but we need to fight any crime first of all. We have repeatedly stated and confirmed that the introduction of a normal voting system for Council-4 or Council-5, as it is called, can fully address the personal voting problem, which has already been proven in practice in the same Kiev City Council, where I personally tested it for 3.5 years. Similarly, the voting system will normally save the mass of time and energy of deputies who spend it on various inventions and methods of nonpersonal voting. They'd rather spend that energy on the legal process. But less than that, we've decided to translate this whole discussion into a plane of criminal justice, but everyone has to understand some simple things: problems will now arise not only in the buttonpad, but in other deputies, in the neighbors of the buttonpad around the hall, in the chairman who leads the meeting, because the D.B.I. investigators who are going to investigate the case will have to question everyone, they'll have to conduct expertise, follow-up experiments and so on. And this will certainly create a lot of interesting legal consequences entirely for all the members of the Supreme Council. For example, a leader who usually says "please support and vote," his actions may qualify as inciting to commit a crime and so on. [[Applause]] But less, but less, these are the risks of a largely ruling coalition. And we're willing to support these risks and give them the opportunity to continue working like this. The last thing that matters. I am very grateful to the committee and to Mr. Bakumov as the head of the working group for supporting the proposal of the Votes deputies and for giving special status to journalists accredited to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who in fact, in recent years have been the only ones who have qualitatively fixed the facts of the buttons, now they have a special status in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u112	Thank you. Andrew Petrovich, with all due respect, was agreed without 10 seconds. Thank you. Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich. Will you take it as a performance? Two minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't insist on one side. The second is 76th. It's about taking effect by this law. We propose that we postpone for six months the validity of the law before amending the Rules in order to institutionally adjust the voting system for the people's deputies. Because in order to meet the requirements of the fixation apparatus, it is necessary for each MP to have the possibility technically. Under this law, it is not known what it should be, it will require funds for the development of technical tasks, the acquisition of equipment, the passing of certification and the establishment of the Supreme Council. This is obviously absurd, because we have red buttons here, Mr. Head, there are red buttons that are already working, if we start them, then we don't have to vote for my 76 amendment, because the law doesn't say what a fixation is. And all the work that costs, technical work, testing, has to be done again, although these red buttons are already installed and can work. So there's two choices. Or we postpone the entry into force of the Law to make these red buttons again and put together another, maybe green, coming out of it, was the majority party, or still use these red buttons, or maybe make another yellow one. So I suggest we put this amendment to the vote. If it doesn't pass, we just use the existing system, we run it, and we work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u114	Thank you. What about your papers? What's your readout? Finally, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Fuck. I can't see. Step away, please, so I can see the national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u115	That's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u116	Can we switch, too? Two minutes, huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u117	And I've got three rights, I'll go straight through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u118	Should we vote now?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u119	I want to point out that, in fact, the beginning of the procedure, the MPs don't listen, well there are risks and moments in this law. If a national MP pushes two hands for a colleague, and the beginning of the procedure for holding a meeting of evidence, checking, confirming or refuting this fact is the order of the head, not the other national deputy. Say yes to the D.B.I. But the Supreme Council's apparatus will do nothing without the chairman. Imagine the situation. If a national MP pushes for a neighbor, and the presiding officer deliberately fails to give the order, he is essentially not to be held accountable. And it looks like, "For not using the chairman at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the actions envisaged by the Ukrainian Law should also be responsible in the event of a non-personal vote." We need to get it back to normal. If we have article 39 saying, "The responsibility of the Ukrainian People's Deputy for failing to perform its duties." By this law, do we consider fulfilling our responsibilities or voting for another national MP? And what I want to say is, how does this attack have to be fixed? I mean, or we vote that only during the vote should there be a fixation or it should fix all actions during the plenary session. The MPs need to identify themselves and put three of my amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u120	Please give me the number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u121	Number 21, number 27 and number 55.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 21 of Mamka's National MP. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[18:17:41]] For 116 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 27 of the Mamka People's Deputy. The committee didn't take it into account either. Please identify and vote. [[18:18:04]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. And the number 55 of the Mamka People's Deputy. I'll put her to the vote. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[18:18:27]] For-119 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Tras Ivanovich Batenko. How about a performance, too? Two minutes. Please include Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u123	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! It seems to me that the honorable friends that we work beyond the norm, as we want to do today, and we want to beat the record one more time, in the neighborhoods working towards exhaustion in the daytime, are not a feat. Because I think that the voting that is currently taking place, especially in relation to the rights, many fundamental rights to dozens of bills, they strike in terms of the quality of the bills that we are adopting, and generally in terms of the quality of our legislative work, every MP, in particular. We have to admit that we're careless, that we're not tracking down what we're taking right now, and we're generally dealing with each other's questions. That's the first one. This isn't Parliament anymore, I'm sorry. And I want to say that this bill is also very principled. And there are a number of amendments that we insist on. In particular, Amendment 8. This amendment suggests that we provide administrative responsibility rather than criminal responsibility for a non-personal vote. Accordingly, fines imposed on a national deputy should be passed through the court by a confirmed non-personal vote of the Ukrainian national deputy. A national MP, who has been voted on by a card, is not responsible for such a vote. Otherwise, such a mechanism could be used to punish uncomfortable national MPs for the principle of his position in the session room. In general, we have many comments to this bill. I don't think our MPs are willing to vote for him in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u124	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Two minutes, huh? Turn it on, please. To confirm, I remember.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I support Taras Batenka, it's a very important bill, it's a shame we're looking at him in such a hurry at the end of the day. But there is another important aspect that we are not talking about. The point is that we voted in favour of the Constitutional Court Act amending the Constitution in the part where the non-personal vote is, accordingly, a non-personal vote is the basis for the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy. So we want to initiate a constitutional and legal responsibility for the appropriate action. Here, we offer yet another criminal responsibility. I don't know how, from the point of view of constitutional law, the same Constitutional Court can see that for the same action there will be two different types of responsibility, including constitutional and legal responsibility. Why is this important? Because if there's a criminal case and there's a verdict, it'll also be consistent with the Constitution. Thus, the confusion is deliberately introduced into constitutional things that I think should now be considered in the Constitutional Court to amend the Constitution. Unfortunately, however, the Constitutional Court will be limited in its consideration, since this bill should be considered before we send the bill to the Constitutional Court. So in order to avoid this kind of constitutional and legal co-operation, I think we need to support my license number 56, which is actually filming this discussion, because for many years we've been trying to fight the consequences, and we have to fight the cause. Once the sensor key works, you don't have to overload the D.B.I., you don't have to torture law enforcement, you don't have to look for enemies in the session room, and you're going to have to dump these things on the ground by simply political will, which is not enough in the session room. I understand that some of the results of the last vote may be impeding this mechanism to work, but believe me, you're going to come back to this sensory button working. She's ready, she's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u126	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? You're confirmed, I remember. 56 of your kind? The 56th Amendment of Kniazewicz was not counted, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u127	The committee suggests that this amendment should be rejected in view of the fact that it is not technically possible to start the system at this time on the issue of making appropriate changes to the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, number 56 was not counted by the committee. I'll put her to the vote. Please identify and vote. And please invite the national MPs, and we will now proceed to the vote for the law and for the permission to confirm. I remember the People’s Deputy Papiew. [[6:23:55]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u129	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I urge you simply that all the national deputies of Ukraine and the factions represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine be equal. Because you give other factions 2 minutes, and you don't give traditional opposition a word at all. Dear colleagues, we would very much like the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to be written for "grantoids." In fact, this law, which in the 21st century is solved in a completely technical way by introducing a sensory button, you are actually taking and making a structure when journalists are given corruption opportunities because we already had the facts when journalists tried to sell the Ukrainian National Video Deputy and much more. And you're actually setting up this law today. More than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u130	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u131	54th, I'm telling you, 54th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u132	54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u133	In fact, in this amendment, you're giving, you're allowing me to communicate with the apparatus. Oh, that's great.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u134	The position of the committee on the subject. Position. No, Mikhail Miklaiovich, I'm sorry, no, they're the ones who exchanged their papers for the performance. Here if you have yours, I'm ready to give. No, Your Honor, no, it's the committee's position, and we're betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, the committee suggests that this amendment be taken into account, taken into account and supported accordingly. This is, indeed, such a consensus form, it's conditioned with representatives of other factions as well. This gives journalists the right to contact the Supreme Council's Office with appropriate information about the offence if they have recorded the appropriate photo and video fixation. And it's clearly defined here, without ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, you insist on voting, don't you? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. [[Noise Nodes]] That's how we voted it. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please invite the national MPs. Ready to vote? Once again, Your Honor, are we all ready to vote? This silence in the hall before the criminal charge of buttoning. I'm betting on the vote number 54, it was counted by the committee. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:27:14]] For 230 Decision taken. Edit included. No, there's no motive, there's no motive for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. I bet. Vadim Evgenovich, are you insisting? [[B in m in s a l in]] How much? What's the readout? One minute. Okay? Please turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u137	Dear Head, you know, I, well, I looked at this law where I was filing the papers, and unfortunately, some of my amendments were rejected. This law is an exclusive populism. First of all, video surveillance is technically impossible to do for every deputy. Impossible! Secondly, we need to think systematically about how to enter the sensor button. This will be a prevention against buttoning. And if you want to make the prevention of buttons only by amending the Criminal Code and making it a criminal offense, I'm going to say that it's technically impossible to bring the National MP to justice. This means that the law will not work from the point of view of criminal law, nor from the point of view of technical video fixation. Please enter the sensor button, and this is the only way to prevent buttoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure personal voting by the Ukrainian National Deputies (Registration No. 2148). Please support and vote. [[18:29:17]] For 261 Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiyovich, this is your law. Congratulations. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 224, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 10, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 17, "Trust" – 6, non-fractional – 4. The procedure is for the Gethmans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u139	Thank you. We now have three rulings in place on the appointment of the Supreme Council representatives to a competitive commission to determine the composition of the Supervisory Board of the private shareholder company Export Credit Agency. I suggest we consider these decisions without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, there was an offer to consider Decrees 2197, 2401 and 2421 without discussion. Okay? I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to a competitive commission to determine the composition of the Supervisory Board of the private shareholder company Export Credit Agency (registration number 2197). Please support and vote. [[18:30:51]] For 252 Decision taken. Come on, I'll give it to you, we'll give it to you. It's either that or we're not discussing it. Then let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the entire draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the Competition Commission to determine the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Private Shareholders of the Export Credit Agency (Registration No. 2401). Please support and vote. [[18:31:38]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I propose to consider the issue and to put to the vote the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Decision on the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of a competitive committee to determine the composition of the Supervisory Board of the private shareholders of the Export Credit Agency (Registration No. 2421). Please support and vote. [[18:32:21]] For 251 Decision taken. The procedure is Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u141	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that the Export Credit Agency is essential in this country, because the experience of countries and Eastern Europe and developed world countries, and even our neighbours, such as Belarus and Kazakhstan, shows that it can really help exports greatly. And I would also like to address the majority today, because I know that today, despite our voting on these issues, this Export Credit Agency, unfortunately, want to knock down or degrade its significance in the economic relationship system of Ukraine. Therefore, a great request, especially to the appropriate committees that will now deal with this issue, honourable colleagues, work in favour of Ukraine, and not in favour of, excuse me, those who want to make a deal for themselves, these interests of the state and the country to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u142	Dear colleagues! Krulko Ivanovich from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u143	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitri Alexandrovich, chairman of the session, we have just voted on three decrees. Each of the decrees had 1 candidate. Would it be possible to at least announce whether you are the chairman of the committee, or whether you, whom we have elected to the competitive committee for the appointment of the supervisory board of the agency concerned? Let's make it sound like a stenographer. We've voted on three nameless decisions. In terms of the transcripts of the Supreme Council meeting, we don't know who we chose there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u144	You've been given materials. Ivan Ivanovich, have you seen the materials? They were given to all not even today. And I think if there was a wish, you could get to know each other. No, you're on time. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service (register No. 2247). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:35:04]] For 233 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Besugor Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u145	Gentlemen, you are invited to amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on military service (registration number 2247). The bill is a complement to the project under registration number 0906, which deals with the introduction of the new military ranks of the sergeant and chief of staff, which meet NATO standards. This bill proposes to amend and supplement the statutes of the Armed Forces and the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act on the establishment of new military ranks according to military titles adopted in the leading NATO member countries. In particular, it is envisaged that the rank of Brigadier General, Admiral Commander instead of Lieutenant General, General General and Army General of Ukraine be abolished. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that it was appropriate to re-establish the right of legislators. However, this conclusion relates to the fact that, at the time of the drafting by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the bill under registration number 0906, which relates to the bill, had not yet been signed by the President. Accordingly, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine made proposals to the bill. In view of this, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading of the project to accept it as a basis. Gentlemen, the bill is small, but it opens the way for the names and career development of our officers according to NATO standards. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u146	Is there a need for discussion on this issue? We can vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on military service titles (registration No. 2247). Please take your seats. Invite Ukrainian national deputies. Irina Volodymyrno, can I talk to you for a minute? Can I talk to you for a second? Ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall. Are there voices? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:38:22]] For 267 Decision taken. Show the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 189, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 11, "The Voice" – 14, "The Trust" – 6, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Decision taken. Out of procedure, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u147	May I? Step aside, dear fellow. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! "European Solidarity" is now proposing to change the order in which you voted to see them now, and now to draft Bill 2336, which brings together the session hall. And then put a dot in today's session. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm going back to the vote. We'll support all ratifications tomorrow. There is a very important law, such as transplantation, which requires common sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u148	Look. Irina Volodymyrically, it's a similar proposal (I'm sorry to interrupt you), but a similar proposal came from other factions, but it's a bit extended. There was a proposal to vote 2336, and then there was a proposal to vote ratifications without discussion. And put the transplant away, set it to the beginning of the day tomorrow. Yeah, and let's make up our minds, I think we'll get through soon. Please tell me, is there a objection in the hall? None. Then let's move on. Is it necessary to vote or can we work? Let us turn to question 2336. Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Fris Igor Petrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Then should we vote, yes, for such an offer? Okay. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to move on to question 2236. Sorry, 2336. After that, 0007, 0011, 0012, 0013, 0014, 0015 and then close the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Agreed? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we don't. Well, then let's follow procedure. Look, there is. I can't do that, there's one proposal, there's a second proposal. Please tell me. With motive? Tell me. Dear colleagues, it is also suggested that the law be reconsidered without discussion, I understand, Law 0887. Ukraine’s Act to Amend Certain Laws of Ukraine (for the introduction of the Single Register of Persons Convicted of Crimes against Sexual Freedom). Agreed? Then I put to the vote the proposal to form such a day's work until the end of our plenary session: 0887, 2336, 0027, 0007, 0011, 0012, 0013, 0014, 0015. Yeah? Agreed? Please support and vote on the above-mentioned proposal of several factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[18:42:31]] For 304 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider Law 0887. This is a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration number 0887). Him. No discussion? What? One right? What's the readout? Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u149	Dear Mr. Head, we're taking down the application. We are ready to vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u150	Vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration number 0887). Please support and vote. [[18:43:52]] For 325 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat political corruption. — Registration No. 2336. He'll report. Or without a report? It's a one-way ticket, isn't it? What's the readout? Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support the 26, but unfortunately, it wasn't technically counted by the committee. That's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u152	26?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u153	Yes, which makes the transition period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u154	She wasn't counted. Committee position, please. Fries, come on out, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u155	The committee agrees to support the amendment. The committee agrees to support the introduction. Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-19-m1.u156	I don't mind, I understand. This is your personal position. Fries' personal position. The committee rejected the amendment. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 26 of the Iron People's Deputies. She was rejected by the committee. Yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision was rejected. Yet the author insists that we vote. I'm putting the vote to 26 people's deputies of the Ironworks. Please support and vote. [[18:45:40]] For 275 Decision taken. Edit included. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on prevention and opposition to political corruption (registration No. 2336). Please support and vote. [[18:46:14]] For 319 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement (in the form of an Exchange of Notes) between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands extending until 1 August 2020 the duration of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the International Investigation Mission from 28 July 2014 (registration number 0007). We can vote. I am betting on the vote on the proposal for the adoption of the entire draft Law registration number 0007. Please support and vote. [[18:47:05]] For 324 For 325. Decision taken. 324. I'm sorry, yes. Dear colleagues, may I put to the vote 0011? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the whole draft Law on the Ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (on the draft electrification of the Ukrainian Railway "Electrification of the railway direction of Dolinska-Mikolayev-Kolasovka") between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (registration No. 0011). Please support and vote. [[6:48:01]] For 332 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the establishment of a local office of the German Association for International Cooperation of the Credit Authority for Reconstruction. (Registration number 0012). We can put it to a vote. I'll bet you a vote for the whole bill, registration number 0012. Please support and vote. [[18:48:46]] For 331 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I can put the next one to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the European Joint Production Fund and the distribution of artistic cinematographic and audiovisual works (registration 0013). Please support and vote. [[18:49:25]] For 326 Decision taken. The draft law was adopted as a whole. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law registration number 0014. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (Registration No. 0014). Please support and vote. We can stay after this, we will discuss it. [[18:50:04]] For 334 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Grant Agreement Ratification Act as a whole (Micolayevvocanal Project) under the E5P Programme between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank (0015). Please support and vote. [[18:50:48]] For 344 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, welcome to the feast. Good evening. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
