ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Thank you. Colleagues ready for registration? Please come into the hall. So, please prepare for registration and please conduct a restaurant. [[10:05:56]] 336 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Alexander Valeriovich Dudenkova. Welcome to your birthday. Also today, April 26, 33 years have passed since the largest ecological and technological catastrophe in modern history, an accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Thousands of our compatriots have left their homes forever, and hundreds of families have lost their loved ones because of a subtle and invisible radiation sickness. Today we honor the liquidator heroes and victims of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. Dear liquidators, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I express my sincere gratitude and respect for heroism. I wish you good health, well - being, and long years of life. Let's honor our heroes. And, colleagues, Sunday is the great Christian Easter. I welcome all the Ukrainians to the coming celebration. Our special greetings to the Ukrainian soldiers who will celebrate the resurrection of Christ on the front row instead of at home with the family. In prayer, let us pray for God’s protection to all Ukrainian soldiers, peace, and prosperity for all the Ukrainian people. Happy Easter! We have an hour of questions to the government today. And I would like to welcome the members of the government in charge of Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko. Hello. But before we start "the hour of questions to the government," I want to announce two statements that came to the presidency: the first, from the faction of the Fatherland and the Radical Party, the second, from the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth. They're ready to replace it. And I give the first word for Oleg Valeriovich Lyashka. And you're the debtor, aren't you? Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u2	On the eve of the great light festival of the resurrection of Christ, I would like to remind both the officials and the parliamentary majority of the words of the Bible: "I know that the Lord will protect the disadvantaged and do justice for the poor" (Psalm 140, verse 12); "God sees all injustice and will soon put an end to it" (Prophet Ecclesiast's Book); "When God establishes justice on earth, people will live in peace and security" (Book of Isaiah 32:16. 18). These words from the Scriptures are most relevant to every Ukrainian today. When God establishes justice on earth, humans will live in peace and security. This is what Ukraine lacks today and every Ukrainian has justice. You welcome, dear colleagues, the Chernobylites with what they once heroically, 33 years ago, protecting Ukraine and the world from the Chernobyl disaster. But the fight against nuclear disaster has turned into the struggle of the Chernobyls for the restoration of social justice, for the right to health care, for social rights, for a decent pension, for the respect of these people. Chernobyl is mentioned only twice a year — in April of the Chernobyl disaster and December of the Chernobyl Disaster Liquidator Day. Today is not really a holiday, but a great tragedy. And Parliament would have to honor with a moment of silence the memories of both the firemen and the military and the medics and many people from all over the former Soviet Union who gave their lives in the struggle against this scourge. But the most important thanks to the Chernobyl people are the implementation of the Chernobyl Social Protection Act. Two years ago we registered Bill 4442 on the restoration of the social law of Chernobyl. For two years, we've been fighting for this law to be passed, and the government, the President, who was already the parliamentary majority, says there's no money for it. For the prosecutors, for the judges, for the officials, for the one and a half billion dollars of the Koboljev Head prize, the Naftogazu prize, which he brought to the offshore, there is money. There is no basic cure for black people. Even a Chernobyl hospital, the only and unique one, and the Ministry of Health shuts down. I want to remind her again of the words in the Bible: "God sees all injustice and will soon bring it to an end." Let's do this together: put an end to injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u3	Thank you. From the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth to the word, Alexander Valeriyovich Dobrenkov is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u4	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues, now Ukraine is celebrating the 33rd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster -- the worst and most terrible technological catastrophe mankind has ever seen. A disaster that has changed not only the ecological situation but not only the lives of tens, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, Russians, and Belarusians, has also led mankind to look at the peaceful uses of the atom. God really sees everything, especially those who, by voting with the coalition, with budget authority, deprived these people of the benefits that the State had established in the Constitution, which the State had at that time committed to granting protection rights at the level of legislation. Regrettably, the Chernobyl disaster fighters, who are patriots of Ukraine, who cost their health, and sometimes their own lives, have not allowed this terrible radiation danger to spread to our home land, to go abroad, they have stopped it at the cost of their lives. But, unfortunately, what do they have left? What answer, and what concern do they now have? Sadly, the nation forgot their feats, their deeds. Since 2014, the state in this coalition of authorities has planned to reduce the benefits and costs of state guarantees of their social security. If, in 2013, the social costs of the liquidators, the families of the Chernobyl disaster victims, the people affected by the Chernobyl disaster, were projected to cost $320 million, now voting on the Ukrainian State Budget Act, the projected expenditure of only $60 million. A fivefold reduction in the state’s concerns about this socially vulnerable population category, their primary leave, free oncological treatment, and the closure of state housing programs. The Opposition Block is the only faction that, through the Constitutional Court, has been able to lift a number of restrictions that have been imposed by the State since 2014. And we're going to act, I'm going with my colleagues, to continue to control the injustice that's taking place during the rule of this government. I want the rest of it. Please give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u5	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u6	Finally, I would like not to clap, not to applaud this day, because it is indeed a tragedy not only in the history of our country, but in the history of all mankind, but still to honor the moment of silence of those heroes, the patriots of Ukraine, who, at the cost of life, stopped this catastrophe and gave us hope for tomorrow, gave us hope of building statehood today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u7	I declare a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u8	Thank you. So let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. I would like to announce that today, from the Cabinet of Ministers will be the minister of education and science, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailnovna. I'd like to invite Mrs. Lila to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u9	Good afternoon, Ukrainian dignitaries, honourable parliamentarians, respected journalists! Today we also have the end of April when the school year is coming to an end, and I would like to inform everyone about the situation of the end of the school year, the graduation and the entrance to educational institutions. Because it is important for everyone to understand the rules that ensure equal access to education for all Ukrainian children. So aside from the state-wide summary appraisal after the 11th grade, which is conducted in the form of an external independent evaluation, we also have graduation exams from every level of school, that is, after 4 and 9 classes. They're very different, and I want to draw attention to that. The DPA after the 4th grade is purely monitoring and has no effect on the student’s success and ability to enter the 5th grade at the next level. Unfortunately, we have signals that teachers often keep children so tense that parents even hire tutors for this state-wide summary test. We urge that we should never resort to such practices, it's a purely monitoring study. I would also like to say that Ukrainian language and mathematics are required, and for children schools with national minority languages, the decision of the pedagogical council may still have a native language. After 9th grade, the state-level summary appraisal is a much more serious matter, and it is given to the Ministry of Education and Science. And the main purpose of this test is not to monitor, but to test the student's educational achievements, which may result in the selection of the school. This year we've been allowed to list all international foreign language certificates and international exams instead of a separate foreign language DPA. It is vital that our ninth - grade graduates find out where to go. Today, professional and technical education in Ukraine is already creating more opportunities, because three years in a row we are modernizing its base. And in view of that, on the Ministry of Education's website, we've provided a lot of additional information for applicants at vocational and technical institutions, so that they can choose the kind of profession that they enjoy, understand how to get to know this professional and technical institution. Now let's go to the exams that the eleven-year-olds will be doing. All state-owned summary appraisals take the form of external independent evaluation. There are two major innovations this year. First of all, mandatory state-level summary tests from the Ukrainian language and from mathematics or history are made up of all students, as well as vocational and technical schools and college students. This year, we introduced a clever adjustment to the target class of graduates of schools with languages of national minorities whose language does not belong to a group of Slavonic languages. Because these children from Hungarian, Romanian schools, whose languages are very different from Slavonic, find it difficult to learn Ukrainian. As you know, until recently they had few opportunities to learn Ukrainian, and now we have to take this into account, so they will have an adaptive threshold, lower than normal, which will allow them to participate in the competitive selection of higher education institutions, and we have already significantly intensified the learning of Ukrainian in these schools. What I'm saying is that in 2021 we're looking at innovation, and then this temporary adaptation period will be cancelled, namely, we're going to be conducting a double exam in Ukrainian since 2021. This is going to be a basic level -- Ukrainian as a national and in-depth study -- Ukrainian language and literature. Since 2021, dear colleagues, we plan to introduce a mandatory math exam for all graduates, and I want to announce it today at the Supreme Council meeting in advance. This means that ninth - grade graduates will be preparing for such a test this year. What's the logic? First of all, basic math skills are needed by everyone, and they develop logical and abstract thinking. In addition, we see all countries that want to strengthen their innovative potential introducing a mandatory math test. This exam is going to be a two-way test, which is that if you're a humanitarian, you pick the first level; for technicians, for technologists, and for technologists, they choose a deeper level of mathematics. The history of Ukraine and English will be chosen. Thus, we are now seriously preparing for reinforcements since 2021, both in the field of compulsory math and in the English language, both as a test of choice. Now, about the deadlines for external independent evaluation this year. From May 21 through June 13, the exams will be held. From June 14th to June 25th, the announcement of results. From July 26th to July 12, an additional session will be held for those who did not make up for good reasons with all the participants. A total of 11 objects will be carried out by the WHO, and more than 354 thousand people registered this year. I would like to point out that this year we are continuing to make adjustments to the NDA for graduates with special needs. We already have Braille texts, we have visual tests, we have texts for the deaf and the weak, so we're doing everything we can so that these kids can be on the same level as other graduates, but under the right conditions, have the ability to make a KNZ. As for the introductory campaign at a higher education facility. This year, the certificates will be accepted by the UNDAF as in 2017, 2018 and 2019. I want to say that 2017 does not apply only to foreign language, because, you know, since last year, we have integrated another part of it into another language that distinguishes it from the year 2017. This year we adapted the production of creative competitions because if creative competitions were to be on a certain day, it would limit our graduates to submit documents to several higher education institutions. I want to remind you that they can actually submit a maximum of seven applications for four specialties. And this year, creative competitions will take place from 1 to 10 July, and there will be another session, from 11 to 22 July. We have enhanced the role of mathematics and physics in the introduction to higher education institutions, and this has immediately reflected the growth of our graduates who have registered for mathematics and physics. We have expanded the benefits for the participants in the fighting, and this year, the opening campaign will implement for the first time a mechanism for prioritizing those applicants for medical and pedagogical specialties who will sign a contract for rural work. And for them, aside from the priority, there's going to be a factor of 1.05. What I'm saying is that we also kept the rural coefficient, sectoral and regional. This year, a minimum of 130 is introduced to enter the specialty: "Right", "Public Administration", "International Relations", "International Economic Relations", "International Law", "Farmation", "Industrial Formation". There's a minimum ball of 150 for the second, third, for the entrances to the specialty: "Stomatology", "Medicine", "Pediatrics." The active phase of the introductory campaign will last all July, July 1, the start. And we expect June 22nd at 18 to end the application for those who only apply for KNW certificates. By August 1st, it's budgeted. As for the entrance from the occupied areas of Donbas and Crimea, we're keeping a network of Donbas-Ukraine centres, Crem-Ukraine, where our entrants from these territories can enter even without external independent evaluation of the results of the introductory exams. In addition, they have the opportunity to draft and obtain a document on general secondary education by extracurriculars in Ukrainian schools. It's going to be on the contract later, and so for the graduates, we're creating all the conditions for the introductory campaign to go ahead with the plan, calmly and principally, just to all our children. As for the Master's degree. You know what we've always been accused of, three more years ago, of having a clear entrance to first grade, being corrupt, to a master's degree. Over the past three years, we have made a lot of progress, and I want to say that this year we have an expanded list of specialities from which we require a single introductory examination from a foreign language, as well as a single professional introductory test from law and general legal competences, both to law and to international relations, and an examination from a foreign language, to administration, religion, information technology, public administration and administration. Dear colleagues, we understand the fact that in higher education we need more serious steps to ensure the quality of higher education. And now we've started a full-time job at the National Agency to ensure the quality of higher education. It's headed by Sergey Mironovich Flower, and I want to report that for the next year, one of our priorities, except for the continuation of the reform of the New Ukrainian School, the reform of vocational and technical education within the framework of the great project with the European Union, is one of the priorities of the higher education system for improving the quality of education and increasing the efficiency of using funds to concentrate them in the country's better universities. Today, the money-for-a-student mechanism, when a student chooses which university he wants to go to, and students with better results of the WNW get to the best universities of Ukraine, is already helping to concentrate state resources in better universities. But we have to work on expanding such mechanisms so that all of our graduates who graduate from school and then want to get an education, whether vocational and technical education, whether in college or at university, have access to really quality education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Lilia. And I want to remind you that we have first a question to the government from factions and then from the national MPs. So I ask the heads of factions, representatives of factions who intend to ask questions to the government, to record. Please. From "The Fatherland" Evtushok Sergei Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Ryabchin's colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u12	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Yesterday the Supreme Council passed a bill on green auctions, where big players were found to have their profits, and the state would compensate them for 20 years of their investment, and they were protected by their contracts. But for small consumers, for people, for Ukrainians, it's just a "green" tariff until 2030. And what is now indignant to society is that they took away the opportunity to put solar stations on their own land. Please tell me how you feel about this problem. How fair is that big players have a lot of things. protection, is that discrimination for small players? And how do you propose to further protect the very small generation? And I want to tell you that in Ukraine, unfortunately, only 12 percent are produced by small players when in all major countries, 40-50. That's the logic of a green generation when you support a small consumer. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rybchin. First, look at the new energy strategy by 2035, and it clearly describes how all generations of our nation are developing. The other one. Yesterday, the law corrected the error that you made as a representative of the committee, the fuel and energy committee in which I was present, three years ago, fixing the highest tariffs in Europe. When I was on the committee, I said that it was not the Supreme Council's right to form tariffs, it was the right of an independent regulator. Yesterday, the Supreme Council finally restricted tariffs that go beyond understanding. This is the first one. The other one. When you talk about private generating companies, please divide the consumer and the manufacturer. The ministry allowed up to 50 kilowatts to generate individuals. But I'm sorry, they're generating for themselves, not the market. If we didn't protect it, our customers had to pay, not 1 bracelet 06, as is today, 4 bracelets. Then ask consumers in Ukraine if they are willing to pay for electricity on such tariffs? So do not speculate with the facts, please. As a representative of the Fuel and Energy Committee, be objective about the things you sound today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u15	Thank you. The honourable members of the Cabinet of Ministers, unfortunately, have no Prime Minister, but I would like to ask you a question, or determine who will answer in the state. on government-owned wages. Sadly, the situation is very difficult. And now I'm looking at the Kharkiv enterprises, which unfortunately today have state-owned enterprises, multimillion-dollar payroll debt, and I've asked in an emergency order to resolve this issue. Please note this, because most businesses also work in a military-industrial complex where the state needs help. Unfortunately, tasks are viewed, but money is being washed away, and businesses have no funds to pay their wages. Please help to pay the wages. We have enterprises that can still work for the benefit of this state. And look at the situation around the airline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u16	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, Mr. Pisarenko! The government, first of all, also joins in honoring the memory of all the heroes who protected mankind from the Chernobyl disaster. We always remember their feat. And we also appreciate the efforts made by people involved in energy to revive the Chernobyl zone to normalize the situation associated with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The Government of Ukraine is doing its utmost to support the victims and all those in need of social assistance in response to the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. The Prime Minister of Ukraine now resides personally in the territory of the alienation zone and in the territory of the Chernobyl nuclear power station. He will also make all the necessary petitions and statements on behalf of the Ukrainian government regarding the needs of the Chernobylites and the memory of today’s woeful day. On the subject of debt on salary, I would like to give the floor to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Ivankevitch Victor Viktorovich, who will provide you with information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u18	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u19	As of March 1, the country’s distinguished national deputies owed 2 billion 446 million dollars in wages in Ukraine. This debt in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas accounted for 466 million dollars and 437 million dollars, respectively, of almost 1 billion dollars, or 36.8 percent, of the debts of enterprises in the area of operations of the United Nations. At the same time, debt still affects a much smaller number of employees. And we thank you for your information on the Kharkiv region, on the military industrial complex. We will certainly consider this issue at the next meeting of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u20	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Šurma Igor Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u21	Please pass the word to Alexia Belom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u22	Good afternoon! I also have a question for the government. I think you're going to decide who's going to answer. Since April 1, however, practically half the area has been run out of water in the Donetsk region with the adoption of a new electricity law. We relate specifically to the fact that today the military-civil administrations, which are in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, have already revived their lives. There is virtually no money that is controlled by any community. The question is specific today. We've connected almost everything in half a month, but there are 11 other areas in the Constantine region without water, and there can be a technological catastrophe almost soon. So I'm going to ask you to answer, if there's water in the Constantine area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u23	We decided to give an answer, and the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, and the Vice Prime Minister of Infrastructure. With regard to the introduction of the electricity market and its first stage. As for Donbas Water, I want to remind you that January, February, March -- Donbas Water used electricity for 285 million dollars. He collects Donbas water 80 million dollars a month. In three months, the electricity was paid to be 0 pins of 0 copies. In such circumstances, the market cannot work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u24	More, please, Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it concerns you and the people of the Donetsk region today when there is water. So now we've made a decision to give the KP Water Donbas license, which unfortunately didn't carry out any financial obligations, and what the Minister of Energy said in three months to the last-hop provider didn't pay any money for the power supply. So now they have a license, on April 1st they will receive a subscription from the Donetsk Military Civil Administration, and water supplies will be restored throughout the territory. But I would like to thank the Donetsk Military Civil Administration separately for practically keeping the situation in the whole area of the Donetsk region in order to keep the other rises in the water supply from being turned off. Today, Mariupol is responsible for the Water Donbasu KP 400 million, and Bahmut is 9 million. And so, if you go through everything, there are calculations for the total supply of water today that are not done. So, on the one hand, we need to talk about what is an electricity market, and on the other hand, we need to do payment discipline in local self-government, which today consumes wholesale water and unfortunately doesn't pay. So I think we're doing a little background check on Donbass Water and its financial and economic activities, and what's the situation here, why, by raising funds, she didn't pay almost any bracelets in three months to market electricity. On the other hand, look at the responsibility of those leaders who do not perform their duties today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u26	Thank you. From Self-Help, Wojciecki Victoria Mikhailna is passing on to Olena Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u27	Dear members of the government, today we have mentioned the environmental disaster of Chernobyl. But you all know that Ukraine’s environmental challenge today is to deal with household waste, and waste in general. For two and a half years, Parliament has been paralyzed, does not pass bills of MPs, expecting a government that is consistent, with terminology, with the notions of the Waste Act according to Nazi strategy. For six and a half years, Parliament has been waiting for legislation to give impetus to the development of reprocessing industries, safe disposal, energy generation, separate resources, and separate waste collection for local self-government. But there is no law from the government. Can you tell us how much more environmental tragedies we can expect? When? My colleague Victoria and I are talking about this today. When will we see the new Waste Government Act, so that there will be no further complaints about environmental issues in Ukraine? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u28	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u29	So it's been a year and a half since the adoption of the national strategy. Unlock waste work, allow the economy to develop and protect the environment. When will you submit this law to Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u30	Gennady Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u31	Alan Valerian, thank you for asking. I think that those laws that are in Parliament today should be considered. And there is no need to translate the responsibility of the Supreme Council into government. What the government is doing today, let me tell you, we have done practically with our international partners a national waste management strategy. And they moved away from that pragmatism that took many years to deal with waste. And today we're in a state where we're implementing a national strategy plan. You were present this week when we were gathering all the administrations and setting up a specific task for the creation of regional plans. I want to say that regional waste management plans today are not just a matter of solving household garbage, it's a matter of, first of all, the investment attractiveness of every region. In terms of putting the market in electricity, in terms of putting gas into the market today, garbage and waste management -- it's not just about the household, it's about industrial, it's about electronic, it's about the ability to work eco-generation and energy. Today, the Waste Management Act, which is a framework, is being drafted. There are already laws on electronic waste, on battery work. And today it is a work that is done in conjunction with international society. Why? Because today, Ukraine wants to implement European directives, not in Post - Soviet space, but in these laws. So please join in the relief work. You still have half a year's work in this Parliament. Consider the laws we make. And please help. So, I think now, I realize that everyone today should tell you what's not done, what's done. I'll tell you what the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources did today, led by Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak, when we hired the best specialists and put them together in different directions, and approved the national strategy, approved the national plan, moved to the implementation, approval and development of regional plans, never again in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u32	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u33	So I think it's time not to ask questions and ask questions, but to put your shoulders and work together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The government’s decision to increase gas prices has led to a catastrophic increase in public debt. Over 70 billion dollars today is the sum. One in three Ukrainian families do not pay for a utility because people do not have money. The meager wages, the meager pensions, the high prices on the utility station have led people to take subsidies, cut off gas, and through the courts, they can take away apartments. I ask the government: why are the social protection mechanisms of citizens who can't pay a high price for gas not working? Why is there an increasing utility that leads to the collapse of housing and utilities? What does the government do to bring back one and a half billion dollars of the prize that Naftogazu Head Kobolev paid himself and brought to the offshore by robbing every Ukrainian family?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u36	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u37	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, there's a lot of truth in your questions, people are always worried about and worried about the residential area. You know, we're having a mixed discussion with NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, and it's happening right in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Under pressure from the government and the Prime Minister, the price of gas has been reduced by more than 300 dollars to consumers, and we will continue to work in the direction that housing tariffs and prices, and everything that people spend their money on, will go down. True, we are also constrained by real economic opportunities dictated by the economic situation in Ukraine and then by budgetary possibilities. With regard to subsidies, this program is under special control by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And now more details about the grant programme will be told by the Secretary of the Ministry of Social Affairs Ivankevitch Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u38	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, today the National Budget Act 2019 provides for the cost of housing subsidies and housing benefits totalling 55 billion 95.6 million dollars. As of today, the amount of the listed housing subsidies, in line with the approved plan for the financing of housing subsidies in cash and cash-free form, is 432 million; of these, 301 million dollars was paid to the Ministry of Health in April for the payment of grants in cash-free form; of these, 135 million dollars were counted for service providers, 106 million dollars in April. An increasing sum from the beginning of the housing grant monetaryization -- 8 billion dollars, of which in April -- 4 billion dollars to the Pension Fund to pay cash subsidies to those who receive pensions; 23 million dollars in April of the Pension Fund to cover the costs of payment services and delivery of these payments by Crushing; 3 billion dollars, of which in April one billion dollars is "Retirement" to pay housing subsidies in cash through the payment system of the Rapid Copy Express system for those who do not receive pensions. In addition, I'm informing you that at this month's 23rd Savings Fund, 2.7 billion dollars of housing subsidies have been paid to cash persons who have been identified as pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u40	Thank you. Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u41	I want to add a few more words on the subsidy system. Victor Viktorovich said about the numbers. I want to talk about philosophy and ideology. It doesn't change. And today this is really one of the priority programs that the government is following very closely. And you know, the grant reform program is going on, as of March 1, we've moved on to a new kind of cash grant. Now we're going through a very difficult transition to a cash form of calculation with people. For the first time in Ukrainian history, we're making this massive transition from some kind of corrupt cash-free form, let's say, a calculation between consumers of electricity to a clean, transparent cash settlement system. So in this process we see the finesse. In this process, we see some mistakes that we're going to try to settle in the near future. And I want to let you know that literally a week ago, the government adopted appropriate changes and additions to the subsidy system. And we've already made such proposals today that for the new heating season we're not going to have a hundred percent deposit and reshaping subsidies when people come back, they're filing applications. We decided that as of May 1, 90 percent of the grantees would receive an automatic recalculation of subsidies for the new season. We're watching, we're watching, and in the rest of the time, with the help of the Ukrainian National Deputies, who are also communicating with people, we're ready to continue to improve this system, with the main goal of being simple, understandable and accessible to everyone who needs this subsidy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u42	Thank you. From the "Peter Dust Block" spores Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u43	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. I ask you to pass the word to Alexander Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I have a question for the Minister of Finance, Oksana Markarov, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Lilia Greenevich. This question concerns the appointment and payment of academic scholarships. Dear colleagues, those problems that have accumulated, and the committee accordingly, we get these questions, see, the first problem. We have students who get it. They have 4.5 points, not scholarships; there are tridents who get a scholarship. This is about the cost savings of the scholarship fund, which remain unallocated, while at the same time, if they could, this 10 percent, be used to further encourage our students who are doing well. The same applies to the autonomy of heights in part of what can no longer be obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u45	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u46	Thank you. . Forty - five percent. We're proposing to create a working group. Mrs. Oksana, I've been talking to you. Let's create a working group together with our committee and work on this issue, and make appropriate changes so that our students can get a fair academic scholarship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u47	Let me get started first. Thank you so much for asking and for drawing attention to the issue of scholarships. We certainly support, in the case of the availability of supply costs, both for the Ministry of Profiles and for the Committee to Increase Academic Fellowships, if, in fact, there is such a possibility, without an increase in the budget. It's about material aid. Here, as well as you were talking to, before we had our scholarships divided into academic and social scholarships, really, it could have been done as well. Academic scholarships are scholarships for learning, and once again, by supporting, if possible, their promotion, material aid from these scholarships will be paid by violating budgetary legislation. For this there are programs in the frame-up program and the rest of the programs that are, from which every university, if necessary, can pay for some of these incentives. But we are ready to set up a working group to discuss these issues in order to properly address this, in line with budgetary legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u48	Thank you. And a final question. No, you'll have it later, Shahov. It's from the People's Front, Kodol Alexander. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me. On the previous question, the Minister of Education, then the People's Front. Please, Mrs. Lilia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u49	A few more sentences. We are grateful for this initiative, the Ministry of Education and Science supports the idea of increasing opportunities to encourage students. So we think it's very appropriate to create a working group and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u50	Thank you. The Teras flint.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u51	First of all, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I would like to welcome colleagues and government members as Easter approaches, and to wish good health and grace to our families and Ukraine. And I want to ask you a question about the development of Ukrainian education. On April 9, we had the first Coordination Council on Education Development in Ukraine under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Groissman in Dnipro. And the three key questions that we were looking at were primarily about the construction of new educational institutions and the reduction of garden lines. This is the construction and construction of interior sanvus, and the third question is the preparation of new DBNs for the construction of new micro-regions that would envision the construction of social infrastructure objects: gardens, schools, FAPs, etc. So I have, in principle, a question to Hennady Grigorovitch, and I would like Lily Mikhailovna to respond as well. What is the status of these DBNs? Second of all, he's in a condition right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u52	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u53	What is the current state of the health regulations that are important for improving food quality in Ukraine and in educational institutions? And the third question is: I know that for two years there is no solution to the issue of building an accident school in the city of the New Bug of the Mikolai district. I thank the Prime Minister for his attention, and I ask you to take into your own personal control the construction of the elementary school. Finally, I invite you to Santa's for the second Coordination Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u54	Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Taras, for your question. It's up to a few members of the government, but we want to thank you for your involvement in the work of the Coordinating Council in carrying out educational reforms. In fact, the first meeting took place on April 9th in Dnipro, and you were there as well, and a number of national deputies from the Education Committee. More than a week ago, a detailed report on the results of the Coordinating Council was signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And the first assignment came to the central authorities of the executive branch, including government building standards on subjects of education. Hennady Grigorovich will now inform more about this and then Mrs. Lila.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u56	Thank you to the People's Deputies for this question, because, in fact, today's education reform is not just a question of methodology, of the New Ukrainian School, of reform of the Ukrainian School, but also of a new educational space, of the infrastructure involved in the learning process. And so as the Ministry of Regional Development, together with the Ministry of Education, we are introducing a new approach to a new educational space that includes four basic issues: energy efficiency, integrity, security and the direct introduction of new design. We've got 300 NPOs working today. Already in this year, 150 are additionally open, and we expect 600 in total by the end of the year. The new DBNs, which apply to educational institutions, have already been approved, and not only apply to barriers and energy efficiency, but also apply to a new approach to the organization of the process. That's what we're talking about when we're talking about a resilient school. Also in preschools, we've settled this issue, and today we've adopted a new DBN that allows built-in kindergartens to be built up to 70 places that will allow them directly in cities where there's a certain deficit in the area to introduce these kind of kindergartens into new complexes. But once again, I would like to stress, for us, it's very important -- it's cooperation that applies to the committee of profile, the department of profile and local self-government, which will allow us to implement a completely new quality. And the last thing I'd like to say is that today's Passion Friday, yes, here, I think we all need to work together, we don't have to translate each other's questions. Well, Alona Valerievna, I want to apologize for the emotional performance. I think we've always worked together on a lot of complicated issues, and I think that this cooperation between Parliament and the government, and directly with our committee and ministry, will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u57	Thank you. And a final question from the factions. From the "Will of the People" Group, Shahov. Then there'll be a record from the National MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u58	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Honourable Minister Nasalik, who had just fled because he knew that Shahov would be asking questions for miners. Please tell me, before New Year's, they didn't pay. On March 8, there was no wage on the Waters. Today Easter, 450 million dollars have not been paid. When will the minister finish destroying the coal industry? When will the minister of coal in Nasalik finish buying billions of dollars of coal in Africa, Russia, and America? 20 billion dollars was purchased this year. Give 6 billion dollars to develop the coal industry in Ukraine. Let the miners do what is normal, not teach Polish today to them abroad, and make beggars to their families. Because I am from a mining family, I am in pain. And once again I want to say, please note this, I want to tell all the ministers. And go to Luhansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u59	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u60	Nasalik promised to go to Lysichansk for the miner’s day. Why didn't he go there? Let him take the Passover basket and go there and talk to his family. The question is, when will they pay the miners their wages, 450 million debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u61	Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Korzun Ladies and gentlemen, yes, indeed, there is a certain amount of debt today, and it's a little over 400 million. But thanks to the support of the National Deputies, such as the Committee on Budgets, a decision was made yesterday to redistribute some of the public budget and the cost of implementation. I think in the first decade, this debt, well, is practically going to be paid off. There are still some steps that are being taken to remedy the situation in this regard, so we will work on them. I think the situation will gradually improve. Thank you for your attention. If you have more detailed information, we are ready to provide you with written information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u62	Thank you. And now I'm asking you to record a question from the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please hold the recording. So let me ask you a question. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u63	Dear representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! Hotcharyenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Next question. As we learned yesterday, there was a tragedy in the occupied area, namely, an explosion in a coal mine in the village of Juryevka Lugansk district, resulting in the death of 19 miners. And so we understand that Ukraine today does not control this territory, but our Ukrainian citizens are killed there. That is why I think it is necessary for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to express its position that we are ready to help, including rescue workers, and are ready to help the families of the dead. I think it's very important to demonstrate today the position of the state of Ukraine that these are our citizens. We remember that, and we will help them if we are given that opportunity if there is any minimal possibility. We can invite families who have died to Ukraine, provide them with appropriate help, children, and summer rest, and so forth. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u64	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u65	So I ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to respond to this situation and make appropriate statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u66	Thank you for asking. In fact, there was a tragedy last night on the occupied part of Luhansk. We fully share your position on the support of Ukrainian citizens who are in difficult conditions, especially in occupied territory. I think today we're going to have a joint meeting with colleagues from other departments and we're going to take appropriate measures to respond to such events, including the measures you've proposed to support children directly from the families of the dead, to pay the necessary compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u67	Thank you. Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Bondar Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u69	Thank you, Mikhail. Again, I have a question for the miners. In addition to wages, they are said to have trouble unloading coal products themselves. And that's because they put down the Wood Coal, they broke down, and there's nobody to buy, and there's no one to buy it, and there's no private structures running around. The "watchers" who bought them are not in Ukraine right now. And so I want to ask the question, what does the government think with the Wood Coal and the Centrenergo that are also planning to hand over to private hands, how do we then implement coal production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u70	Thank you for asking. Dear Michael Leontiyovich, there has indeed been a problem for several days now with the realisation of coal products. But by now, we're actually closing the coal deal right now because of the state-owned coal company. I think the next few days we can fix this. In addition, after the holidays, we plan to hold an expanded meeting between our coal producers and consumers and to remove this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u71	Thank you. Kunicin Sergey Volodymyrovich. You're arguing with Ivan Dmitrovich. Kunicin to whom? Slow down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u72	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u73	Andrew Volodymyrovich. Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. And I have a question for the Minister of Infrastructure and according to the head of Ukrawtodor, who unfortunately is not present in the government's bed. I would like to point out that I have done four times on this issue of addressing from the rostrum of Parliament. And this question is about just the unsatisfactory state of state-of-the-art roads within my district, in particular the Verkhovinski, Kosovsky and Snitinski regions. This is because the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which defines the list of roads that need to be repaired, was adopted in January. To this day, however, the Krivopil Pass has not been repaired or repaired. The Snitten-Kosov road hasn't been repaired yet. The Seine-Teas road has not been repaired or repaired. I find this to be a very violent inaction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u74	15 seconds to complete. There's only so little time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u75	I find this to be a very unsettling activity, and I ask that immediate steps be taken to ensure that repairs in these parts of the road begin as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u76	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Yuri, we share your concern. Relevant documents accepted. I will inform the Prime Minister of your requirement for the immediate commencement of all necessary work. And all the necessary actions by the government -- both the costs and other budget assignments that it takes to get the roads you've set to begin repairing -- will be directed to places. And the government's execution will inform you as Ukraine's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u78	Thank you. Colleagues, before that, I jumped one of the speakers, so now it's Jarinitch, and then it's Captain Helen. Please, Jarinich. Turn on Jarinich's microphone and see if your card is real. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u79	It's mine. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the acting minister of health. Unfortunately, she is not present. So this is the first question: Why doesn’t the Health Committee visit the executive responsibility of health care, and so is Parliament? And the second question. I want to remind you that Paul Anatolyovich Kovtonyuk is here, so I'm going to ask him a question. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Law on State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Care provides that no less than 5 percent of gross domestic income will be allocated to the health insurance programme from next year. I have a question: will we protect this rule in Ukraine's budget for the following year? Will we be able to do so? Is that our common position? Has it already been lost by the Cabinet of Ministers in cutting down the work of the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u80	Paul Covtonjuk, Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Constantine, on the first question, I think you know the reason why the ministry team doesn't attend committee meetings. There is a condition under which this work can be repeated. There are appropriate references to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Committee. It's about your second question. I think that at the time of the adoption of the State Financial Guarantee Act for a country like ours, it was very important to set an indicative target standard, an indicator of the financing of the health insurance programme. We all realize that over the course of 1 year, it is impossible to increase funding by a few percent of GDP in wartime conditions in the current situation. But this indicator is, we support it, and, let me tell you, gradually, there's a movement to increase funding for the health guarantees program, and we're in the same position here with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u81	Thank you. Captain Olena Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u82	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a question for the vice-premier of European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration of Ivanna Klimpus-Cincadze. I know that a lot of people are saying right now that we're not in time for European integration, and it's very often left behind. But still, I'd like to ask you a question. Taking into account the President's decree signed a few days ago on this issue, and taking into account that there is still time for this Supreme Council to make important decisions, is the government supported by the project that was developed jointly with the EU Office of European Integration and Representation, as well as by the Committee on European Integration, on the basis of the principles of State policy on European integration? And is the government ready for today, together with Parliament, to move this decision forward, and above all to implement that European integration course still remains on time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u83	Please, Mrs. Klimpus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u84	Thank you very much, Mrs. Olena, for your question. Indeed, and it is extremely important that all our work on the implementation of the Association Agreement, which we have worked with you over these years, remain in priority, and that that road map of legislative security, the government-parliamentary one we have adopted with you on European integration, be the same priority for Parliament. On our part in the government, we're going to insist, from the government, we're going to insist that we prioritise those bills that are put into this road map according to the priorities of the Association Agreement and the four priorities that we have set for ourselves: energy, digital market, customs, technical regulation. And I want to thank you, by the way, for yesterday's vote to the national MPs. Two bills: both on customs transit and on technical regulation - were adopted in the first reading. Thankful and hopeful for the same constructive work was given. Thank you to the committee for working together on drafting a bill that would really provide institutionally for our European integration. On the part of the government, we will support, we will work to ensure that colleagues in parliament, different factions also join in voting for this bill. Thank you for ordering the President's decree to give specific tasks on the basis of established rules in the Constitution on the objectives of our strategic European and Euro-Atlantic integration, specific tasks for all branches of government. And I very much expect that these specific tasks will now be transformed into concrete steps that will continue to ensure a rapid movement towards that strategic goal that the Ukrainian people have set.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u85	Thank you. And I absolutely agree with the position that now the government and parliament are to focus these six months on issues of European integration. We will do our utmost to put these questions into order in the daytime. Please, Victor Halasyuk, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u86	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. I'm turning to the government. Real European integration is not about raising prices and tariffs to European level. It's an approximation of Ukrainian income to European level. And in this context, our question. How are you going to respond immediately to the most pressing economic challenges, to overcome multimillion-dollar unemployment, to overcome the emigration of millions of Ukrainians abroad, and to overcome the poverty of Ukrainians? How are you going to invest in the real economy? Ukraine needs $200 billion to catch up with Poland. How are you going to solve these problems? The Radical Party team is offering an industrial reform package. Export credit agency, industrial parks, free networking, "Buy Ukrainians, pay Ukrainians." These are the initiatives that match the Employers' Manifesto, the Anti-Crist Economics Plan, which is supported by all the production associations. What are you going to do? Why are you still delaying?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u87	Mr. People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk, you are certainly familiar with the government's programme of activities, as well as reports that are regularly and in detail provided by the government to inform the Ukrainian people's deputies. And since you're familiar with it, you can't help but know that the government is pursuing a complex policy that is aimed at increasing economic development and economic growth. We're lowering taxes, we're lowering the only social contribution, we're creating the necessary investment climate, we're doing everything we can to make social spending, as a result of the new budget revenue, possible and greater. We have reformed decentralization, which has been channelled by a large number of funds in place, and therefore we also have additional revenue to finance social programs at the top of our citizens' priorities, above all pensions, social assistance and wage increases, that for three months practically the government, in the last three years, has been increasing the minimum wage, as you know. In this regard, the average wage on the economy is increasing steadily, we are increasing the rate of all living at the minimum, and we are also increasing the minimum wage, and then the average pension. We have also made several social changes that have improved the possibility of pensions, and this has led to additional possibilities for the Pension Fund, which have already become available to pensioners this year, and we are also running a large and comprehensive grant monetary scheme. That is, the government solves a number of economic and social problems at the same time, both in increasing economic growth and in the annual growth of Ukraine’s gross domestic product. At the same time, the government is ready to focus, to accept your proposals. As you know, the government is working with all the constructive factions, including the Radical Party faction. And I beg you, Gennady Grigorovich Zubko will complete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u88	Thank you. Please have a question from the People's Deputies of Denisenko. Teeth, I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Please, Mr. Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u89	Once again, I would like to draw the attention of the people’s deputies together to start the decentralization reform, which was entered into the Coalition Agreement in December 2014. In December 15th, we passed laws that are now in place to create the conditions for investing directly in the community. And today, when there are funds, when sectoral reforms are being implemented, when investment conditions are being created, directly the bill package that concerns industrial policy: the creation of technology parks, industrial parks -- we absolutely welcome it. And on our part today, too, we are going to introduce a dual education system, a vocational and technical education that allows us today to create quality, professional work hands and that should work with investors. So I think we should work together today to plan territories. Therefore, please adopt Law 6403, please adopt Law 8071 – the principles of the administrative territorial system. Please adopt a law that applies directly and in the direction of housing and utilities. So let's move in two sides. We're ready to support those packets of billing that the national MPs are proposing today. On the other hand, we ask for the adoption of draft laws that strengthen local self - government today, provide answers to the future development of communities, and provide answers for additional investment not only in united communities but also in local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u90	Thank you. Denisenko Vadim Igorovich. Sidorovich Ruslan. And, colleagues, the final question. Ishtenko Valérie. Colleagues, the questions are over. Let us all thank the government for participating in the discussion. And the closing word is Viacheslav Kirilenko. Final word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Head. In this closing statement, I, on behalf of the government and at the request of the Prime Minister, would like once again to thank all the heroes of Chernobyl for their feat, as well as all the people who have been minimizing the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in all aspects of Ukraine's life for 33 years. Also on behalf of the government, I would like to welcome both the national deputies and all the Ukrainians with the coming Easter celebration and wish happiness, health, all the good things and victories. And also thank the Ukrainian Parliament for the laws passed yesterday: the Ukrainian Language Act, the decision to hold the NATO Inter-Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine for the first time, and the call for the inadmissibility of passporting Ukrainian citizens who are in the temporarily occupied territory of the ORDLO. We thank the Ukrainian Parliament for this, and we thank you once again for your fruitful cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Thank you, Government. Thank you for your help in drafting the Language Law, which was an attachment and joint work. You've done well, colleagues. I mean, now the questions, then the decisions, then the decisions to cancel the decisions. So we're at 11:45 a.m. -- asking questions, 11:45 a.m. -- decisions to cancel decisions. So I'm asking for an hour and 45 of everyone to be in the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u93	Thank you. Colleagues, it turns out that I'm only going to publish 204 requests, and there will be no unsatisfying speeches today. I understand that everyone understands why, because. Everybody's happy. Mr. Lazko tells me that everyone is pleased today is very rare in our Parliament. So, honourable colleagues, today's presidency has received 204 requests from Ukrainian national deputies, and I want to make them public. Viktor Razwadowski, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror for the violation of the property rights of residents of the village of Stetkowice of the Wonderland, the Zitomir region, in part of the nonpayment of funds for the milk delivered. Viktor Razwadowski until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir district government for the provision of material assistance to residents of the city of Zitomir Ivanovi Oleni for the operational treatment of Irina’s daughter in 2002. Helen Sotnik to the head of the President's Administration for information on the conduct of the competition to determine the list of candidates from Ukraine for the replacement of the judge of the European Court of Human Rights. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the State Department of Investigation, the Henprocuratory Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Vadim Krivohatka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for the possible commission of a crime by the procurator's office in Zaporozhye. Vadim Krivochatka is acting as head of the General Administration of the State Department in Zaporozhye district for the acquisition of land by ATO participants. Anton Yatzenk to the Prime Minister, the Head of the National Police, the Director of the NABU, acting as Head of the Sustainable Service, the Attorney-General, the Deputy Prosecutor-General, the Director of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor, the Head of the Cherkas District Public Administration, on the abuse of office, corruption, and the dismissal of the Chief of the General Directorate of the Ministry of Education in the Cherkas region. Igor Kotwiecki to the head of the National Police Department in the Kharkiv region regarding the possible criminal activity of officials of T.O. "Harkigazbut". Vladislav Buharev to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget for 2019 for the capital repair of the public road of the state importance of Ohtirka Suma. Vladislav Buharev to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget for 2019 for the capital repair of the road of the state importance of Romna Suma. Michael Bondar to the Head of the State Labour Service, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services for the purpose of checking the PAT Lvivgas for security requirements around gas distribution sites in the territory of the Radehiv district of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the head of the Lviv oblivion, the head of the Lviv oblivion for the provision of a proportional distribution of funds from the state budget (DFRD, microproject competition, road fund) to all areas of the Lviv region. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the commemoration of 175 years from the birthday of Elijah Ripin. Valérie Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the execution of court decisions that the State is in debt for. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, head of the Zitomir government for the cessation of administration in the implementation of State policy in the field of territorial organization. Vladimir Lithuania to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, for ensuring a comprehensive investigation of traffic accidents. Andrija Lopushanski to the minister of ecology, the minister of finance for the need to allocate funds to co-finance the acquisition of a special vehicle for the collection and transport of solid household wastes from the mountain areas of the Skoliv region of the Lviv region from the state budget subsidies to local budgets for environmental protection measures on municipal property. Andrea Lopushanski to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency, head of the Lviv District State Administration, on the need to carry out capital repairs of the roadways of general use of local importance in the Skoliv region of Lviv. Mikoli Skorika to the Prime Minister on the financing of external political advertising by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Olga the Mantis to the minister of youth and sports about the situation in the field of youth policy and national patriotic education. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the violation by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Rights of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, guaranteed by article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers in part of intentional non-submission and concealment of the information requested, as well as the involvement of officials of the Government of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the violation by officials of the Ministry of Health of the Rights of the National Deputy of Ukraine, guaranteed by article 15 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Law on the Rules, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, in part of the failure to provide an answer within a year and a half, essentially concealing information about the abuse. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of use for entrepreneurial activities of land areas that contain mass graves of gunmen shot during World War II. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Social Affairs for the increase in the pension of members of the families of military personnel in the event of the loss of a breadwinner. Romana Maczola to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Hmeljna observatoire for the promotion of urgent treatment abroad of Somuk Marina. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnicka Observatories for the provision of a minor child with a ball joint, operational intervention with endoprostetics and post-operative treatment within the limits of budgetary funding. Natalia Weselova to the Attorney General on the transfer of criminal conduct No. 1201810010005890 for further investigation to the National Police National Investigation Office. Igor Lapin to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation for possible criminal activity. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister on increasing the problem of debt accumulation from social insurance payments. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, Head of the NAC Public Shareholders' Association Naftogaz Ukraine, for setting an economically sound price for gas for consumers. Artur Martovitchko and Igor Shurma to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigations on the involvement of government officials, the Ministry of Health in criminal, administrative responsibility in the damage part of the "Centre for the Professional Competence of Professionals with Higher Education Directions of Training "Medicina" and "Farmation" at the Ministry of Health of Ukraine" on a particularly large scale. Arthur Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of former prisoners. Sorry, concentration camps. Irina Konstanovic to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the use of measures to improve treatment and rehabilitation in sanatoriums, improving the procedure for compensation of travel costs. Irina Konstankevich to the head of the Court of Auditors on the efficiency of the use of funds from the State budget of Ukraine. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the enforcement of the judgement in case No.826/14989/18, which entered into force legally on 16 April 2019, with the aim of creating immediate legal and regulatory conditions to preserve unique and extremely valuable pralises, quasipralis and natural forest ecosystems. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Supreme Council of Justice, the Judicial Protection Service, the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the State Judicial Administration, the Attorney General's Office for the creation of the right conditions for the administration of justice and the provision of proper judicial protection. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, for information about the number of parental refusals to take the child out of a medical institution. Jury Pavlovka to the head of the National Police, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the provision of information on the application of the authorities of the National Police of the administrative punishments of foster parents and parents. Sergey Melnika to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the introduction of passenger trains or trailers by Hmelnicki-Herson-Hmelnicki for the summer period. Sergija Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restructuring of the territorial bodies of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Mr. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Head of the Inspectorate of the Central Region, Head of the Inspectorate of the Dergenergonview in the Kyiv region, Deputy Chief of State Inspector of Ukraine for Energy Control in the Central Region, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services in Kiev and Kiev, Head of the Government of the Private Shareholder Society of Kyivoblanergo for the purpose of providing explanations and restoring work with a person who addresses only in the legal field. Yurya Bublika until the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to remedy violations of the work of health workers at the Poltava District Psychiatric Hospital Maltseva, to differentiate her by setting up allowances and allowances for their specific work. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General for Offences, was involved in the removal of land from the collective form of property that was used in the production activities of the KIC "Friendship" of the Kotelev region of Poltav region, the illegal transfer of land to state property and the rental of another subject of management in violation of legislative rules. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the settlement and resolution of the matter with the delay of the Social Insurance Fund for payment of hospital letters to Ukrainian citizens. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the restoration of social benefits to liquidators, participants in the crash at CHAES and victims, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Olesia Long for the Cabinet of Ministers to improve the order of care for patients with insulin - dependent diabetes by medical means. Alexander Nechayeva to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Deputy Henprocuror, Head of the SAP on immediate response to the fact that imports of raw materials are blocked for easy industry by the employees of the Sumsian Customs. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of July 17, 92, No. 393, "On the order of the calculation of the service of years, the appointment and payment of pensions and cash assistance to officers, flagmen, swordsmen, military service and military service by contract, persons of the superior and military composition of internal affairs bodies, police and members of their families." Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on social protection and financial security for liquidators and affected citizens as a result of the Chernobyl AES accident. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the housing of internationalist soldiers and citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Julia Yooffe to the Head of the Supreme Council, head of the Central Electoral Commission on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, the urgent solution to the question of the appointment and holding of the first elections in the Mountain City Joint Territorial Society of the Pásnán district of Lugansk. Helen Sotnik to the Odessa City Head for information on the provision of construction conditions and restrictions on certain objects in the city of Odessa. Svetlana Zalitschuk to the Head of the President's Administration on the grounds for the lifting of sanctions against individual legal persons under the Decision of the Security and Defence Council of March 19th, promulgated by Presidential Decree No.82/2019. Wadima Sidorczuk to the Prime Minister for systematic disregard by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the requirements of legislation regarding the realization of the right to socio-economic compensation for the risk of population living in the area of observation of the Plain Nuclear Power Station. Igor Lapin to the head of the National Service Agency of Ukraine on the participation in the complaint by the head of the secretariat of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the privatisation of Alexander Matviychuk. Groups of Nardeps (Hmila, Kadikala, Vasjunika) to the Head of the BSC on the opening of a pre-trial investigation in connection with the distribution of questionnaires containing the signs of an offence provided for in article 110 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the replacement of the children's playground on Carbisheva Street, 18-A, in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, prosecutor of Kiev for the mining of sand in Almazne Lake in the right-wing district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the urgent restoration of hemodialysis equipment at the Bilocerki Interstate Hemodialization Center. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister for the allocation of budgetary resources for the capital repair of roads in the villages of Lakes, Fursa, Troops of the Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, temporarily acting as Health Minister for the Treatment of Child Kardashus Anastasia Andrijavni at Ternopil’s Children’s Hospital. Borislava Bereza to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources for Pollution of the Rivers of Svet and Homo. Jury Miroshnitzka to the Dnipropetrov district government for the assistance of children with disabilities, children of refugees, half orphans and children from many children and low-income families. Jury Miroshnicka to the National Police of Ukraine on the appeal of counsel Djomin to recover the funds from which he was arrested. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister, heads of the National Police on the need for a comprehensive inspection by the competent authorities of the Jérello Municipal Enterprise in the village of the city-type New Sanjara Poltava region to address the issue of the quality of drinking water, the justification for the installation of water tariffs and the export of household waste, as well as the illegal use of water. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister for the transfer of one of the premises of the Public Shareholder Society of Hymtekstilmash from state property to the municipal property of the Chinese community in the Chernigiv region. Oleg Kulinić, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health, the head of the Poltava District Council, on the possibility of closing the Grand-Sorocyan bone-to-tuberculosis department of the utility "The Hadiac district tuberculosis sanatorium". Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Justice regarding the introduction of the Ukrainian Heritage Register in accordance with article 1277 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. John Rybak to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health in charge of the head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the provision of assistance to an onceased resident of the town of Beregomet, part of the region of Černovetsec. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need for immediate approval by the Cabinet of Ministers. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need for immediate approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order for the creation and maintenance of a state register of citizens suffering from rare (orphan) diseases. Sergey Vlasenka to the Attorney General for information on the case of the former director of Ukrespecexport. Irina Heratchenko and Maria Ionova to the first deputy head of the Cerkas District Council, head of the Cherkas District State Administration for the use of local authorities necessary measures to speed up the establishment of the National Nature Park "Cold Yar" in the territory of the Cherkas region. Sergia Leshchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation with a preschool facility on Dragomanova 1-B in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association, the minister of infrastructure to prevent the baseless closure of the Fast 2 negotiable depot and the release of dozens of employees from their posts. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Education and Science, the head of the Fastov District State Administration, the head of the Fastov District Council for the observance of the legitimate rights and interests of the members of the teaching team and the education recipients of the Borov Institute of General Secondary Education, I-II. graduated from the Fastov District Council of the Kyiv Region. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister for changes to the formula for the allocation of educational subsidies. Anatoly Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister on the situation that has arisen in the area of heat supply in the area of the Losovian united territory of the Kharkiv region. Alexander Dombrowski to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Kistion, on the need for an operational meeting of the Coordination Centre to ensure the implementation of a new electricity market. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Minister of Finance for the provision of uninterrupted funding from the state budget for active population-enhancing programmes. Jury Devyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers to provide information on the development and submission of the DDR to the Cabinet of Ministers Project Regulation on Approval of State Support for Reformed Printed Local Distribution Media, the status of consideration of the draft decree and the speedy adoption of the decision. Anna Romanova and Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds from the state budget reserve fund to compensate the victims and eliminate the consequences of the explosions of the 6th Armory of the Ministry of Defence near a village of the city type of the Ichnian Region Friendship. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Police, Head of the National Police Directorate in the Donetsk Region, on the selection of participants for the Parasport Event "The Unrooted 2018" in Sydney. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister on the mandatory execution of a court decision passed by the name of Ukraine in a statutory order at the state level, and on the need to recalculate previously appointed military personnel and certain other persons. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for the proper observance of the Ukrainian Education Act. Taras Batenka to the Lviv City Head on an extraordinary situation that has resulted in a water ban in the settlements of Podlips, Plugs, Novoselishte, Tristanec, Zarvanica, Luka, Kozaka, Kików Zoločov district of Lviv Region and the inclusion (return) of these points in the "Recalculation of the population points in the zone of the depression of the water catchment zone of Lviv city utility Lvivvovodokal". Mikhail Golka to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Infrastructure for the repair of the bridge in the village of Musorovka in the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture, for the allocation of funds for the renovation of the Zbarazka District Music School in Ternopil Region. Gregory Times to the head of the Hertzai District Council of the Cherniewec Region for the consideration of the initiative to rename the separate locations of the Hertzai district of Cherniewec with the aim of returning their historical names. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister for the addition of additional funds from the State budget to speed up the completion of the regional development investment project "General Education School I-III has reached 650 student places, the village of Ridkovci of the Magal OTG of the region of Chernobyl". Alexander Kirsch to the minister of internal affairs for the cessation of the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to minors in a kiosk located near the residence on the street of the Academy of Sciences, Pavlov, 142 in the city of Kharkiv. Alexander Suprunenka to the Head of the National Police, the Kiev City Head, on the situation that arose around the East Sports Complex in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to Kiev City Head, head of the Darnitsky District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev State Administration for the independent consideration of parliamentary requests and the need to take appropriate measures to reconstruct and modernize the elevators in the residential buildings of Darnitsky and Dniprovi district of Kyiv. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Security and Defence Council, Head of the President's Administration, Head of the High Council of Justice, Head of the Board of Justice, Minister of Internal Affairs, Attorney-General on the situation surrounding the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Interior, Head of the President's Administration, Head of the Board of Directors, Security Council, Attorney-General on the situation surrounding attacks on activists. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister regarding the improper execution by the head of the Ukraine Slavomir Novak, who is responsible for the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of roads in the Dnipropetrov region. Yurya Bereza to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funding for the capital repair of the M-04 international road, in the area of the Dnipropetrov region. Ruslan Demczak to the Head of the State Judicial Administration, the Head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Head of the Higher Qualifications Commission, the Head of the Territorial Administration of the State Judicial Administration in the Vinicki District for the transfer of the judge to the Oratov District Court of the Vinicki District for the restoration of access to justice. Groups of National Deputies (Demchak, Dovbenko, Rizanenka) to the Head of Nazbank for changes to the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Ukraine No. 9 of 2 January 2019 concerning the review of the minimum size of own capital to obtain a licence for settlement in foreign currency under life insurance contracts. Jury Lewchenk to the Commissioner for Children's Rights, deputy head of the Police Department of the National Police in Kiev, head of the Kiev City State Administration, prosecutor of the city of Kiev for the resolution of the critical situation that took place in the pre-school institution No. 498 of Kiev. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the urgent need to complete the construction of sewerage networks on the streets of Berdjansk, Bjogorni, Jasgorski, Cappligina, Bakinsky, Rizki, Nevsky, Tsulukide, Magistralne, Chapligin, Bakinsky, Berdjanski, Stusev, Rizkom, Orlovski in the Shevchenk district of Kiev. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister for ensuring the proper implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 17 July 2018 No. 6/R/2018 on the return of a number of guarantees, benefits and compensations for the Chernobyl population, including rules on the elimination of 4 categories of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, on the interpretation of Decree No. 1286 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 29 May 2014 on the provision of adequate medical care for military and military personnel and persons of the military and principal ranks who have suffered injuries, injuries or other health injuries during the conduct of the ATO in eastern Ukraine. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Prime Minister to ensure the implementation of the WR Decree of 13 January 2009 No. 850 on urgent measures to preserve the territorial integrity of the National Botanical Garden of the Name of Mikola Grych National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Edward Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Henprocuratura, the Odessa District Council, the Odessa Observatories on the review of the address of the public organization "The Council for the Unification of Gardening Cooperatives of the Karolino-Bugaz Massion" for the benefit of the three thousand Saddovars, residents of the Odessa area to investigate and resolve all the circumstances of the conflict that has taken place in the local community in recent years, as well as for the full protection and protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the Hmelnicki City Head, the head of the Hmelnicki Hmeljna oblžadnija concerning the provision of housing for the family of military personnel Sergio Ivanchuk, who in February 2017, defending Ukraine's independence in the East, was captured and illegally held by representatives of illegal armed formations in the Luhansk region. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Social Affairs, the Attorney General on the legality of the local authorities of the city of Odessa and Pat "Odessaoblenergo" regarding residents, internally displaced persons of the building on the street of Spentska, 4 in the city of Odessa. Maxima Burbak to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to verify the efficiency of the use of budgetary resources and to comply with the current legislation of Ukraine during public procurement by officials of the Montenegrin City Council between August 2018 and April 2019. Victor Ostapchuk to the Prime Minister for the illegal removal from office of members of the Government of the Association of Associations of Associations of Commerce, Sergey Mihalczuk and Alexander Bjorah by the administration of the public shareholders association "Ukraszalznica". Irina Souslowy to the Minister for Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas and Internally Moved Persons for Information on the work of the Commission on Assistance to Persons Deprived of Personal Freedom by Illegal Armed Forces, Occupational Administration and Authorities of the Russian Federation in Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas of Ukraine. Vadim Novinsky to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration regarding the cessation of involvement in church affairs, personal participation in a campaign to discredit the Canonical Ukrainian Orthodox Church and support the raiding of her property and religious structures, the persecution of priests and believers. Vadim Novinsky to the head of the Volin Observatories for the cessation of involvement in church affairs, his personal involvement in a campaign to discredit the religious organizations of the Canonical Orthodox Church of Ukraine and to support the raiding of her property and religious structures, the persecution of priests and believers. And one last question. Dmitry Schenzev to the head of the Hmelnicka observatoire on the cessation of involvement in church affairs, personal participation in a campaign to discredit the religious organizations of the Canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church and support the raiding of her property and religious buildings, the persecution of priests and believers in the Hmelnitsky region. Dear colleagues, we have completed the announcement of the questions that have been registered at the Parliamentary Secretariat at this time. And now, as you know, we're moving on to other agenda items. Please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I beg of you all. I want to make a message. Attention! Colleagues, before Mrs. Irina goes on. Attention! Attention! I want to inform you that there have already been four orders to repeal the Ukrainian Language Act. And I would also like to report that the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine give two times to make similar regulations. So the point is that the annulment of these regulations does not present any difficulty for the Supreme Council, but if we cancel them faster than in two days, and the law will be signed faster than in two days, it may call into question the legitimacy of the law. What is the advantage of following the law in full procedure? The advantage is that before yotta, the entire procedure was followed: and the committee's decision, and the table's 10 days, and every amendment was considered. If we allow a minimum violation now, we have no doubt that they will go to the Constitutional Court, and this may call into question the Language Act. But I want to tell everyone who's worried and worried: there's nothing to worry about, colleagues. In the next plenary session, we will immediately consider all these decisions, immediately I will sign the Language Act, immediately, and there is a full agreement, President Peter Poroshenko will sign the law. But we should not give any chance, I stress, any chance in the Constitutional Court that there might be a chance to challenge the Ukrainian Language Act. That's why I'm saying this right now also for Ukrainians who are listening to us, who are concerned about whether the former "regionals" will not block the Language Act. I want to make it very clear that they're not going to block it, and there's no way they're going to do that. It just has to be clear to everyone: the next Tuesday we're going to put the decrees of the plenary Tuesday, the plenary, we're going to put these orders on the table, we're going to cancel them right now. By that time, the law will be fully prepared by the apparatus, and all the remedies will be filed. I will sign it immediately and it will be signed immediately by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. This will be the right thing to do. And I say that by conducting all the necessary consultations. So I'm asking for an understanding of society, there's no risk with the Language Act, just so that we don't give any grounds for cancelling it, we're going to be able to endure all of the yotta terms that are provided for by the law in force. I look forward to understanding both the people's deputies and the whole society. The law of language is, will be, and no one will be able to put it at risk. Thank you. And I give the word to Irina Heratchenko to continue to announce the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, we have. Dear colleagues, I have to apologize in the session room and in front of my colleagues, because before I started making inquiries, we were saying that today we would move on to certain regulations that are registered as an attempt to review one or the other. We're not going to consider these decisions today, and that's why we have a few minutes left, yet I apologize again, for the speeches of those national MPs who are dissatisfied with the answers that came from other institutions of state. As I can see, there are two such national deputies in the session room who have come to claim dissatisfaction. These are the national deputies, Elena Sotnik and Sergey Vlasenko. I'd like you to have a word with me, Mrs. Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u96	Thank you for the opportunity, Madam Chairman. My colleagues, I had an appropriate request, a response to my trip and a speech at the Odessa local council, where Mr. Truhanov publicly announced, Mayor Odessa, that he would provide all the necessary documents concerning illegal forgetfulness in the park zones, within the sea lane and elsewhere that today. Where it works today. Protected areas. But unfortunately, at my request, which consisted of 17 specific addresses in the city of Odessa, where construction standards are being violated, Mr. Truhanov responded with a very interesting one-page formulation that they were doing the job, that they were trying somehow to remedy the situation, but no documents, no confirmation that such work was being done. Moreover, you know that today in Odessa there are catastrophic situations with these objects. People come out, they're actually physically protected from illegal parks, park zones. And unfortunately, I'm now addressing Mr. Truhanov, and I have to ask again, in which case, I have to specify every document that I'm expecting from him as the mayor of the city that would be obliged to protect the rights of citizens, the rights of Odessa. Sadly, though, he is protecting only the contemporaries who are breaking the law today. I'll ask you again, you'll have two more weeks to answer it. But I warn you, if there is no proper response to the national MP, as provided by law, I will address the relevant Criminal Code and violate the criminal case in connection with obstruction of parliamentary activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. People's deputy Sergei Vlasenko is invited to attend, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the election is over, but the election is not over. On March 15, I will request the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service and the so-called "General Prosecutor" to apply President Peter Dustenk of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office in preparation for the first round of voting, with the aim of distorting the will of Ukrainian citizens. As a result of the first round, we found that unfortunately they succeeded in distorting the results of the citizens' will in the first round. At the same time, the poor were afraid to answer the question. They were afraid to explain why they were questioning the Fatherland representatives for what reason they were doing this. They were not afraid to run on television, to tell dirt and nonsense, but to answer the official request of the national MP they were a little frightened. They wrote a general statement that the Ukrainian Security Service operates only according to the law. We all know that's not the case. We all know that, unfortunately, in five years of the Presidency, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office have become an instrument of political influence, the persecution of political opponents, the nightmare of business, but certainly not a structure that, as the Attorney General's Office, should be on the watch for the implementation of the law, and the Ukrainian Security Service should be a special service, which should primarily combat Ukraine's external enemies. I find such a situation totally unacceptable. I believe that this situation is one that puts States at risk. So from this rostrum, I would like to address the newly elected President Vladimir Zelensky with a proposal to announce as soon as possible who he sees as he sees the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who he sees as the Attorney General of Ukraine, who he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees the head of the National Bank, who he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he sees as he can, in order to put an end to the mess that has taken place in the institutions I have listed over the past five years. And I would also like to hear from President-elect Vladimir Zelensky the real one, not the fair one, as Prashenko did, the development strategy and the reform strategy, and the Attorney-General's Office, and the Security Service, and the Ukrainian Army, and the Ukrainian diplomatic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, a statement came to the fore from our distinguished colleague of the national deputy Osuhovsky. He didn't have a ballot on Thursday for Decree 10259 which condemns the issuance by the President of the Russian Federation, the illegal issuance of passports to Ukrainian citizens in occupied territory, and Mr. Osuhovski requests that his vote be counted "for" this decree. Dear colleagues, now, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I announce a 30-minute recess, and at 12:30, we will begin the traditional Friday entry of the Ukrainian National Deputies for the presentation under the heading "Rizzne". I very much ask all colleagues who are planning to speak today to return to the session hall on time and sign up for the performance. Thank you all very much, and I'm calling it a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u100	Fellow national deputies, we continue our work. Now we're moving on to the discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please prepare the national MPs for recording. Please hold the recording. Remember, just personal push of the button, just personal. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rule of law is the MP's personal responsibility for everything he does. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u101	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamyanecina, and Radehovščina I want to start by thanking all the representatives of the 119 constituency, the areas I just listed, for the support I received yesterday during the review and adoption of the Ukrainian Language Act. They came from the districts, they were here at the rally, they supported this law. I am very grateful for this support. It's a low price for that. And I want to address before Easter, before the resurrection of Christ, to all the Ukrainians, to the brothers, to the sisters, to the military on the fore, to welcome them with this day, to wish God’s blessing. I know that on Sunday, everyone who comes to church is going to dedicate their belts, then come home with their families, with their loved ones, celebrate with their families, and our boys and girls are going to be there, in front of them, in the trenches to protect our Fatherland. And I'm sure that each of them will be near the guardian angel and will not let any harm come to them. We will also be in the churches, and in the families we will pray for them, thanking them for their sacrifices. And I'm sure God will hear us. Because God hears those who do good, those who fight against evil. And right now, we're fighting evil, and Ukraine is fighting this evil. Therefore, we will thank God for all the gifts he has given us. We will ask that we continue to be near us all the time, help the Ukrainians, help Ukraine. And I'm sure those prayers will be heard. Once again, I would like to welcome everyone with a great holiday coming! Christ is resurrected! The Truth Has Been Raised!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u102	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Victor Krivenk. He was given the word of a fellow national MP. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Chairman. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. In two days, it's a big holiday. I welcome all Ukrainians to Easter! And yesterday there was a unique, significant event -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a bill on our Ukrainian language. And I call upon all the deputies, all the Ukrainians, all those who understand the true meaning of the Ukrainian language, for which it is necessary for them to disseminate this information, to bring to people the pragmatic meaning of language. I am not tired of repeating myself, and I am very glad that hundreds and thousands of people have become Ukrainian because they have not been forced to speak without reason, but they have been pragmatically explained why speech is important. Why the Poles, why the Russians, why the Hungarians, why the French, look how the French defend their language, why do they do it? And I'm going to do it again, and here, from this high rostrum, that a person is determined after birth, who is based on four factors, is parental education, it's the culture of the environment that surrounds man, blood, genetics and the energy of the earth. Which mix does not know any religious, philosophical model, but the first two are basic: parental education and the culture of the environment that surrounds man. The language is the basis of an appropriate culture: Hungarian-Hungarian, Polish-Polish, Ukrainian-Ukrainian. A cultural medium is a natural customer of a nation that protects, develops, and in which a person is comfortable, it feels good because it is an environment. When there's an educated government elite, a state elite, she understands that the first thing to protect ourselves and that we have to attack our enemy is language. Because when a person's native language is destroyed, it becomes either a cosmopolitan (the people of the world, the choice of place of residence for him is based on the criteria of ecology, income, a beautiful school for a child, security), or he becomes a bearer of another language, a neighbor country, an enemy, an opponent, he becomes a bearer of the country's culture and becomes a customer of that state, and he becomes loyal to that state. Look, Russia has banned, banned, or suppressed Ukrainian language 64 times on a national level for over 350 years. Why? Because they just didn't like the English? No, it's not. Because they understood that Russian culture would come after Russian, Russian government machinery would follow Russian culture. Empress Catherine, who is a German who was so unable to speak Russian that she was a Catholic and was raised at the age of 15, but she promoted the Russian Orthodox Church and Russian culture. Someone, as I always ask, might think that the Caddy Putin is a deeply believing man or could not sleep there without reading it for the night? No, it's not. He understands the pragmatic role of culture. Look at how the Hungarians are protecting their language space, which we now have problems with them and our integration into NATO. So we have to prove to people that where there's Ukrainian culture, where there's Ukrainian cultural space, there's Ukraine and there's Ukraine. There is no "Russian peace" in Ternopol and there is no threat to the Russian world. Not because there's NATO battalions or nuclear weapons, but because there's Ukrainian cultural space. If we want Odessa, Mariupol, Kharkiv, Dnipro my family to have no risk or threat, there must be Ukrainian cultural space, and we need to explain calmly and politely to our fellow citizens, our Ukrainian-Russian-speaking patriots, that this is the way to preserve Ukraine, the transition to Ukrainian. We're lucky she's beautiful, she's singing, she's melody and she's beautiful. But if it were the most inconvenient, the most uncomfortable, the most difficult, we would still need to protect and promote our culture and language. And we also need to be more tolerant. I don't respect or support people who speak, for example, in Kharkiv or Mariupol, and they say, "You don't speak Ukrainian, so you're not a patriot." And the man says to him, "Listen, I left my foot on the front, my brother died in the war, I fought for Ukraine." Look, in the Right Sector, I asked my friend Jarosh how many Russian speakers do you have? 70 percent. And these people need a calm explanation of the pragmatic role of the Ukrainian language. We need to explain to the older generation, who have been taught to love their country in the Soviet Union: pioneers, jaundices, compatriots. And people truly loved that great state. Then the remodeling, the publicity, the archives opened up, the man realized what his grandmother was crying for five times a year without explaining the reason. For she had three sisters and two brothers who were in the camps who had perished in Holodomor. And she hated this system, but she was afraid to tell her children something. It's all about that scary red car. And man fell in love with the great Soviet state and began to love his little country: his Kazakhstan, his Belarus, his Ukraine. And these people need to be calmly explained that we respect them, but Ukrainian cultural space is the basis of our independence. I thank once again all those who have joined this law: and Koli the Prince, Mr. Lesyuk, Mrs. Bilozer, Kishkaru, many, many others. Thank you to the public activists. Thank you to those who came to the Supreme Council yesterday. We're very good at adopting this bill, and now we need to communicate it properly so that it doesn't become a weapon in the hands of the enemy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u104	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the National Deputy Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u105	Good afternoon, dear friends! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want you all to know that in Parliament today I am collecting all the signatures for the resignation of Attorney General Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka. More than that, as it turns out historically, we have even two of these initiatives. Igor Lucenko of the Fatherland faction, who collects signatures, is also an initiative by Egor Sobolev of Self-Help. And that's not an accident, because Yuri Vitaliyovich has demonstrated his full inability to manage the highest justice body in our state, the Attorney General's Office. What moral duties did he take upon himself when he was in office? He was obliged to investigate the crimes of high officials in the days of Yanukovich. Please tell me, have you heard of any judgment in this category of cases? None. Moreover, we are now seeing a disgraceful ballet investigating the Kurchenka case, which is the face of corruption by Yanukovich. And in the last few weeks, Yuri Vitaliyovich has managed to turn 360 degrees twice 180. He once said, "You can't suspect the dusty environment that was involved in the money laundering of Chicken." Then, on the contrary, he said, "Let's gas, because I'm going to go into a separate political column." Literally the other day he made another deal with Dusty that he would be back with him, and again, a team of everyone who stops, we don't touch anyone. That's a shame. Even in a separate case, Lucenko should have been retired. But that's a lot of stuff. Go for Midan. Instead of organizing the investigation, promoting effective investigators who are seeking results, and cleaning up those who are beating the bullies, Lucenko has engaged in a public discussion with the head of the Department of Special Investigations, who is involved in crimes against Majdan Gorbatuk. And the coat of arms accuses Lucenka of interfering and obstructing criminal conduct. Lucenko also says, "I don't like something out there." Lucenka has every possibility of taking responsibility for the affairs of Maidan, the Celestial 100, or resigning, if what Horbatuk says is true. Similarly, the protection of the State’s interests was undermined. For example, Medvedchuk was given the pipe, which he from Russia is now successful in pumping oil products here, taking over the market and financing political projects. So please, I'm going to the electorate right now, click on your deputies, ask them if they signed for Lucenka's resignation. Because the longer the shame, the Attorney General's office, of his office, had never known. Please, this is our work together, let's do it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u106	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Leonid Hamtz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. The honourable electorate, in this House is, theoretically, not today, but theoretically, there are more than 300 deputies who made promises. And these promises were recorded in the Coalition Agreement: to make, to enact certain laws by this calling of parliament. The main ones are to cancel the parliamentary immunity, all human beings are equal, and neither the MP nor the President, nor any official has the right to have more rights than a teacher, locksmith or a worker in any other sphere. The second law that was promised is to change electoral legislation. We need an anti-corruption parliament. Deputies who become deputies by buying mandates do this not because they are benefactors and patrons. They then spread this corruption to the government, spread it throughout our country. These 300 deputies have promised to pass a law on special commissions of inquiry so that any crime committed by a public official will not be left without parliamentary control. And today there is no question whether these things should be accepted by this Parliament or not. The simple question6 is, is it a parliament of people who do what is promised, or is it a parliament of liars? There are 300 votes enough to change the Constitution. There are 300 votes enough to undo the MP's inviolability. Why is this not done? Obviously because there was no political will today. Why am I speaking now? Because I feel that the situation has changed. With the arrival of the new President, there is a short window of opportunity to carry out these tasks. Because this coincides with the promises made by the active one. Ukraine's next president, Vladimir Zelensky: Cancel parliamentary immunity, change electoral legislation. Today it is possible to do so with the authority and support of the President, for whom 73 percent of voters voted, with social demands. Sociology shows that 60 percent of Ukrainians change electoral legislation and introduce open electoral lists. These are more than the political ratings of all the parties that are in this Parliament. Today there's a window of opportunity where the media is highlighting this question -- and they're not forbidden to do it, today we can do it. Let me remind you, the cancellation of parliamentary immunity is in the middle of the process. If we literally vote in favour of the next week’s reading, the next September’s call can find 300 votes in order to undo the parliamentary integrity. Unfortunately, the Constitution does not allow this to happen to the next Parliament. The Constitution states that the Parliament, which has begun to amend the Constitution, must conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u108	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u109	A unique opportunity for this House to prove that they are not liars, but MPs who have promised and fulfilled them, because today this is a requirement of the Ukrainian people, and Parliament must comply with the demand of the Ukrainian people who have chosen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u110	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the national deputy Victor Halasyuk, who gave him the word of a colleague. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u111	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, we welcome you to the Easter celebrations, and we wish you good health, harmony, peace and prosperity! Sadly, millions of Ukrainian families today cannot afford to fill the Easter basket. Why? Because there is an era of poverty created in Ukraine over the years by the current government, and that is why 73 percent of Ukrainians voted in favour of overcoming the poverty era in Ukraine for what the Radical Party team is fighting for in principle. The new president received a huge advance of confidence, and the Ukrainians expect not only decisive, effective action, but they expect great victories: victory in the security sphere, return of the aggressor territories, strengthening the international coalition against the aggressor country, overcoming poverty and overcoming the mistrust that is in Ukraine today. And the Radical Party team divides these desires of the Ukrainian people. Moreover, we propose a concrete and progressive plan to overcome the era of poverty in Ukraine. The first, and urgent, is a reduction in the price of gas and municipal tariffs and a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. Under the memorandum is the signature of the President of Ukraine, the signature of the Minister of Finance and other high-level owners. That's why the President has the authority, and he's essentially obliged today to withdraw the signature under a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund and change its terms and conditions, to remove from there the infamous gas price formula that artificially increases the price of Ukrainian gas to the level of the so-called 'import parity', resulting in artificially and substantially higher municipal tariffs. This has caused a real socio-economic shock, because the payoffs on the utilities have already exceeded 70 billion dollars. An immediate review of unfair tariffs and a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. The second is the resignation of Naftogazu chief Kobolev and the return to the budget of almost one and a half billion sums of premiums paid to him and his deputies. Here I am holding in my hands the draft decree, registered in the Parliament of Oleg Lášk, on the return of these funds, unlawfully, unjustly paid to Naftogazu's leadership. These are our expenses, Ukrainians, taxpayers. Now the government says there's no money for Chernobyl, there's no funds for teachers, there's no funds for doctors. And the money for Kobolev, which is one and a half billion dollars, they have! And they tell stories that they don't have the authority to return these funds to the budget. Who needs these stories? You can't work. Go away. Because it's an injustice, it's a robbery of the Ukrainian people. It's no longer just a question of justice, it's a matter of common sense and protection of Ukraine's national interests. The third is the immediate review of Ukraine's State Budget, the clearance from there of all the corruption schemes established by the current government, and the allocation of these funds to increase the salaries of the budgeters and the recalculation of pensions for pensioners. Today, it is an absolutely shameful situation when a teacher’s salary starts with 4 with a small thousand dollars in the country, when a university professor with a degree in science, knowledge of foreign languages can receive a salary of 8,000 dollars. What future does today’s authority have for future generations? Poverty, addiction, new IMF loans, sales of raw materials abroad. Oleg Láška's Radical Party team strongly disagrees with this scenario, and we propose a specific mechanism for changing it: the adoption of an industrial reform package developed by the Radical Party team that has been introduced to Parliament. It's an investment incentive for new production in Ukraine, it's an industrial park legislation. And we're going to Parliament's leadership, and we're going to urge this bill to be tabled in Parliament next week, because it's billions of new investments for the Ukrainian economy, and it's a minimum wage requirement for these products -- 15,000 dollars, a minimum of 15,000 dollars. These are industrial parks: industrial incentives and wages are much higher than today’s average. In addition, the bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" as well as the Ukrainian Language Act, which you and I have adopted in the parliament walls, is historic and aimed at protecting national interests, the development of Ukraine. Likewise, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians" is the protection of the economic interests of every Ukrainian, it is the protection of the welfare of every Ukrainian, it is the creation of hundreds of thousands of new jobs for Ukrainians with decent wages. And finally, the next is a review of all of Ukraine's international treaties for the benefit of Ukrainian producers and citizens, because the government, the President, Parliament must defend the national interests of its own state, not perish under the conditions of external creditors, IMF or others. Support the plan proposed by Oleg Laska’s Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Victor Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u113	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the people handed down their sentence to President Prashenko and testified to their desire for radical change. President Greensky has received a huge advance of confidence from our citizens. Ukrainians expect the President of Green Power and win, particularly in the international arena. On the diplomatic front, a new head of state must be restored to peace and occupied areas of Donbas and Crimea, a victory over the aggressor. At the same time, international trials await him quickly, the Kremlin does not waste time or give him a chance to learn. Provoking Putin with a passport order is not just another act of aggression, but also an untraceable pressure and psychological attack on the newly elected president. In response to Vladimir Zelensky’s naive desire to negotiate directly with Putin, he made it clear that he would lead them from a harsh position of power and threat. Putin wants to take advantage of Zelensky’s lack of experience and apparent lack of willingness to play a new role in real life. In a democratic change of power in Ukraine and Ukraine’s desire for peace, Putin saw an opportunity to impose his own conditions and demands on Ukraine and its international partners. Any weakness at this point will have far-reaching consequences and will lead to defeat. On the other hand, Prashenko imposes on the Ukrainians and the Green Myth what seems to be the effectiveness of his foreign policy and its seemingly unalterableness, which is a great lie. Soaking dust was just a waste of time and opportunity, and Ukraine today has very weak international positions as a demeanor. The continuation of a less valuable policy is a road to nowhere. We see in the new president's program the individual right ones about changing foreign policy that give some hope. Since the beginning of Russian aggression, Oleg Lazko has offered strong alternatives that have been ignored or implemented with great delay. We strongly advise President Zelenski not to be a hostage of the Prashenko legacy and not be a dependent weakling, not to fear the dissatisfaction of world leaders, protecting Ukraine and reminding the guarantor countries of their commitment to the Budapest Memorandum. Do not be afraid to demand a change of negotiating format from Minsk to Normandy to Budapest. Do not be afraid to openly declare the death of the Minsk Accords. Oleg Lalashka's team is ready to help President Zelenski pursue strong foreign policy if he shows the spirit and will to stand up to the world for Ukraine's national interests. On the terraces is the fate of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u114	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Ammelchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u115	Basil Amelchenko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lásch. Dear Ukrainians, the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska proposes a plan for the final destruction of a system of greed that has already been built in Ukraine in the presidential election of knockouts. But if you don't get it, it can be reborn. First. Step one is the President's impeachment law. The head of state, regardless of his name, must be accountable and accountable to society. The Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry is an effective parliamentary control, a safeguard against the usurpation of power. The removal of immunity from the President, the deputies and the judges, because all citizens must be equal before the law. Changing the electoral system, eliminating the majority, introducing proportional elections for open lists are the best cures for political corruption. The reduction of the number of MPs to 250 is quite sufficient for the work of the Supreme Council to be effective. The removal of the President of the illegal, unconstitutional powers that Peter Poroshenko has acquired, the real judicial reform, the complete replacement of all judges, the direct election of judges by example of the American model and many others. The end of the poverty era is a first-time review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, a reduction in gas prices and municipal tariffs. That's why we ask the newly elected President to immediately request a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund on the basis of which the Ukrainians pay space tariffs and cancel the government's decision to raise tariffs. The end of the poverty era is a radical change in economic policy in the interests of national production. This is an immediate budget review to clear out all corruption schemes that have already been established by the former authorities. Saving billions of dollars to raise wages, to recalculate pensions, to live for young people and to restore justice. The end of the age of greed and poverty must come now. This is the fundamental position of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u116	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u117	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Dear Ukrainians, I welcome you before the great, greatest Christian festival with the Lord's resurrection. I believe that the Lord God will help us to cope with all these challenges, hardships, and strength, and victory. And it is believed that all of this negative, all of these crimes, including today's criminal power, and this government of Groisman, which has led the Ukrainians to begging, to poverty, where Ukrainians have become the poorest people in Europe, we have enough power to eradicate all of this and bring all of these criminals to justice. I am sorry to say, but to this day the government of Groysman has flooded the wicked government of Azarov, which has led the Ukrainians to begging. Public service debts now amount to over 69 billion dollars. Today, Ukraine’s electricity debt amounts to more than 30 billion dollars. Over the past year, Derjaudit Service has proved that the state has increased the number, our debt and our service, and this amount is 358 billion dollars. The pension fund's hole is over 158 billion dollars. How long will this total pillage last when officials eat without having any money left to work, when they assign billions of bonuses, wages, and at the same time the Ukrainian state plunders our eyes? We see the irresponsible policy of the government of Groysman. We're looking at the cover-up of criminals. The same holding fund, as many times as I did, with my freedom colleagues, raised the question of Trubarov's immediate resignation. Instead, we see him giving up for nothing, for Kivoblanergo and Odessaoblanergo. So once again there's a robbery of strategic enterprises, again there's a robbery of Ukraine, and there's no one responsible for it, despite the fact that there's been a lot of filing before this official about the discovery of criminal cases, and now his corruption cases are being tried in court. We understand that this power does not want to be held accountable, this power is not with the Ukrainian people, this power acts like a sailor, it drives Ukraine into debt. Look at the structure of the Naftogaz NAC. There is no increase in natural gas production, there is no energy independence of Ukraine, there is no introduction of an energy efficiency programme for our nation. Instead, there are space bonuses and wages. They've been in debt to a child company called Ukrattransgas, which has already been in debt for over 50 billion years. I have a question, why aren't they planting those officers today? Why do they assign to themselves the prizes of space and wages? Therefore, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union understands that today our task is to clean up this criminal power immediately. And we demand, of course, to immediately put in place strategically important bills that would really get the Ukrainian economy out of the shadows that would create jobs that would eliminate their offshore schemes that would return.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u118	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u119	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, I would like to say a lot today from this rostrum, especially again, and so are our speakers, so I would like to pay attention to the Law on Speech. And really tell our voters and voters from all over Ukraine that we have taken a very important step today. And we see it through all the Moscow, Russian channels, how they are today, what they're not doing, they're doing everything to embarrass us and all that. But we know we did the right thing. And just as Russian is a national language, so we today have English as a national language. And we have to do everything we can to make Ukraine really Ukraine. You know, it's really nice that there's such an ad on channels that we're different, but we're the only ones. Whichever one of us is different in the hall, and whatever faction we're from, we should really be the only one. I just wanted to talk to the voters in my district, that's five districts. And we're also celebrating today, of course, the day of the Chernobyl accident. And you know, this is a really tragic, tragic time. And there's a lot in my district of Chernobyl and stuff like that. Of course, I'd like to see more quickly, more quickly, that we have money in the Cabinet of Ministers, in the Finvid department, in our state, because we are in debt to our neighborhoods. But once again, I wanted to condemn the Communist regime that was in force at the time, which had been silent for the last few days. And how long did it take for people who were there to die, not knowing what kind of grief it was, to keep quiet and all that sort of thing quiet? I really wanted to talk to you about the road question again. Of course, it's not just your ways. We know well that the roads across Ukraine are bad enough and bad enough. We understand that there is a great deal of money being spent and capital roads are being repaired in Ukraine. But once again, the question stands in my path in my district, and I remind you again, that's the fifth time, the fifth time, the sixth time in this rostrum, that's limestone-high. Of course, I'd like them to pay attention, no matter once, to the loving leader of the oblovtodore, to come for these 3-5 minutes and look at this road. Because it's very sad that people are tormented, that there's not just this road, it's not there at all. If only she had been. We can see beautifully that buses are coming back and things like that. I think we should do everything we can to make this road. To conclude, I would like to welcome not only my constituencies and so forth, but all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u120	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u121	The voters, as well as all of our Ukrainians, with the Passover festivals. We would very much like these Passover baskets to be filled with them, sanctified, and optimistic about the future of our country. And so, I think we should do it again in this room and in the future, regardless of who the President is and who he is, we need to unite and work together for the benefit of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u122	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u123	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. I'd like to start by saying that today we're talking about the greatest technological catastrophe in human history, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident that happened 33 years ago. This was indeed a terrible tragedy, and we still feel the consequences of this tragedy. Today, I would like to say, eternal memory to all who have not lived to this day, and eternal glory to the liberator heroes who saved Ukraine, who saved the world from this terrible scourge. And this morning I was in the Trinity, in my constituency. And Troistina is the most Chernobyl area in Kiev. Because just as the area was built, so many people were evacuated from Pripeta from other populated areas of the alien zone, they received housing in the very province of Troas, and many liquidators live there. And there was honor there this morning. And it was people who said that they were very sorry, that they were mentioned only once a year — April 26. And they say exactly the right thing, they don't ask for benefits, because it's not the benefits -- it's our debt to these people who have sacrificed their health and their lives so that we can live and future generations can live. And the state must pay them that debt in full. Well, since I've already started talking about the Trinity, I'd like to say one of the problems that bothers the inhabitants of the region today. This is because there is no fire depot in a vast area like the Trinity. And you know, it's a violent situation. Since 2005, this problem has had to be solved at city level. Sadly, though, this problem is not solved. There was a huge fire a month ago near the Lisov subway. And there just weren't enough fire crews coming from four, I think, parts of Kiev, and even the neighboring Brovarsky district. And really, if, God forbid, these two fires happen at the same time, this could be a very difficult situation. Don't bring God in! And that's why I'm going to be an active member of the national parliament, and also, using this opportunity, from the parliamentary rostrum to talk about this problem that needs to be addressed in the near future. And we're going to force the city authorities to decide that question. The trinity must have its fire depot. And once again, I'd like to say that today really has to remember those tragic events 33 years ago, but not just to mention something, but to do something, so that, really, those people who are liquidators and those people who are displaced from the alien zone will feel our attention and our concern every day, not just once a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u124	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Today, on Passion Friday, there is also the 33rd anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, the Chernobyl tragedy. So I think that today we have to mention all those who saved the world and Ukraine and the Ukrainians from that terrible catastrophe and also silently pray for them. Almost a week has passed since the Ukrainians chose a new path for themselves, when Ukrainians said they needed to change the system when they said they were giving Ukraine a chance to overcome corruption. And we see that now we're in such a strange state, when, on the one hand, we get that chance, and we hear in various discussions about how to delay the start of such real change. What do I mean? I mean, what's going on is this huge discussion about the date of the inauguration, there's this huge discussion, when it might actually be this inauguration. And I would like to remind the honourable Ukrainians that the last elected presidents of Ukraine have recruited and joined their powers, such as Kuchma, 16 days after the second round vote, Yushchenko, 28 days after the second round (this was even the third, second round) taking into account New Year's and Christmas holidays; Januković, 18 days after the second round; Prashenko, 13 days. This was when we had the actual war in Ukraine. And now, during the war, the current authorities are proposing to initiate the inauguration of the newly elected President in 37 days. Think of it, not 13 days later, as Dusty did during the war, but 37 days later. So it seems to me that it's so easy, or it's not easy, a sabotage that tells me that everyone is trying to settle or settle other things without handing over power to the newly elected President as quickly as possible, as it should have been during the war. So it seems to me that from May 14th through May 16 is the exact period of the session when it would be possible to quietly innovate and not sabotage this process. At the same time, we see that, for example, Ahmeth received yesterday's permission from the Antimonopoly Committee and was given the opportunity to acquire another Kievenergo and Odessaoblenergo and become an even more monopolistic energyist. We understand that Mr. Poshenko is probably also trying to do some other important things, but I think all Ukrainians are looking for change, they want decisive action, and we need to do so after Easter. So, dear Ukrainians, I would like to welcome you not only with the Ukrainian Language Act, which is very important that we adopted yesterday, but with the Easter holidays, to wish you, with pure thoughts, to celebrate these days, and after the May and Easter holidays, to take decisive action and to do real work for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u126	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u127	Dear citizens of Ukraine, it is very clear why the inauguration of the new President is delayed. Because until he's come to power in the official order while there's still a valid powder, it's a window of opportunity to plunder all that they haven't been able to steal in five years of their leadership in Ukraine, it's a window of opportunity to get all the necessary consent to monopolize their presence in those markets that they've taken under their control. It is a window of opportunity to continue to benefit from impunity in Ukraine, even after the change of power in Ukraine. One last example. The Antimonopoly Committee, which is run by the Bank, agreed yesterday to buy Rinato Ahmetov two skynergos: Chivoblanergo, Odessaoblanergo. It's not just an impact on the electorate of these regions, it's also a concentration in its hands of electricity transmission and distribution. It's already 48 percent in the hands of an oligarch who controls 80 percent of the coal market, the coal market and the heat generation, and now continues to plant Ukraine on the needle of its wealth at a green tariff. And you know what they did? They even imposed sanctions on Ukrainian factories that produce solar energy. And they opened up the opportunity without VAT to import into Ukraine -- 20 percent cheaper Ukrainian analogs -- solar panels from China. Why? Because Ahmetov needs to be able to tap Ukraine as much as possible by the end of the year with his solar panels as long as it acts astronomically, a completely inadequate "green" tariff of 15 euros per kilowatt-hour, which we will pay him as slaves, because he needs to keep on using. And the fact that Ukrainian factories are going to die, that's his light bulb. I was in Winnie last week. The KNESS factory, a modern production that is now becoming uncompetitive, because for the Chinese, the opportunity to import without VAT has been cut off, and the Ukrainians are paying for it. It's absurd, it's a banana republic where Ukrainian factories are forced not to be competitive, compared to foreign and so on and so forth. Same thing, look at the diesel market, the gas market and so on. On the part of Russia, there is now a special hysteria to preserve Medvedchuk and his allies, associates on the diesel pipe, all of this supply of diesel fuel to the Ukrainian economy, so that he can continue to control this huge market after the change of power. As of today, every second liter of gasoline is controlled by Medvedczuk’s surroundings by imports and, excuse me, every second liter of diesel by imports, and gasoline by imports comes from Belarus, every second liter that has now stopped the plant due to technical problems related to the supply of low - quality oil from Russia. And we also have to figure out whether it was a diversion, or whether it was just some kind of inexplicable oil, for some unknown reason. But all of this points to one thing: power is changing -- and they're afraid to lose their earnings, their schemes that allowed them to take advantage of Ukrainian citizens for the last five years. And that's why I have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u128	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u129	And that's why I have one simple one. Call and appeal to Ukrainian citizens: in the next parliamentary elections, if they were not, whether they would be the time-consuming elections that this Parliament deserves, because it became an accomplice to corruption or not, you have no right, and together we have no right to choose corrupters and oligarchs, because they will continue to plunder the Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u130	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Oleg Lášk. It's six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. On Easter, each of us, recalling the sufferings that Jehovah endured, triumphed. With the death of repairs, all of us look forward to a miracle: a restoration, a new life. The presidential election, the result of the presidential election, the phenomenal result of the unification of the country, is the expectation of the nation as a whole by surprise: a miracle of change, a miracle of restoration, a miracle of rebirth, a miracle of our home country. The best, potentially richest, most powerful, largest country in the centre of Europe is perhaps the worst times of the Ukrainian nation's existence on fertile black lands, with a great nation, with educated people, and with a working people, we live the worst of all. Moldova’s next - door salary is already higher than in Ukraine. Because all the economic policies of the last 30 years have turned Ukraine into an orphan colony, a supplier of cheap labour and raw materials. Ukraine, which did not have a Ukrainian policy, a policy of restoring national values, a policy of respect for native language, a culture of origin, a church of origin, today pays with the blood of its best citizens, protecting areas in the East, temporarily losing the Crimea Peninsula. The presidential elections that took place, the trust loan that citizens gave to the newly elected President, are extremely challenging. Just as you get a huge loan of trust, so you can get a huge shame and a huge distraction if you don't justify citizens' trust. I would be sincere to Mr. Zelenski, because the challenges facing him as the newly elected President are hard to imagine how he will deal with them without having the necessary experience, knowledge, baggage of relationships, the foundation of education, and all the other necessary qualities. But I hope that Greens is a desire for change that needs to be realized in order not to deceive people. The criteria by which citizens will determine the effectiveness of the new President are obvious to all: the restoration of peace, the growth of the economy, the eradication of poverty. When I see Mr. Zelensky's report yesterday that he's gone to rest in Turkey because he's been very tired and hasn't rested for the last four months, I want to tell him that he's going to get even more tired in his presidency, because the president's office requires 24 hours of day-to-day work without a second of rest, no day or night. When Mr. Greensky's team tells me that he hasn't had an inauguration yet, so he shouldn't react to Putin's decision to issue Russian passports on Donbass, on other important events, I definitely disagree. Because the law gives the newly elected president time to inauguration just to get in the way. And the new president is obliged to conduct intensive meetings with the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every day in order to get fully involved, so that immediately after the inauguration, you don’t spend time studying, experimenting, and acting decisively, firmly and confidently when you have a strategy and action plan. I warn the president of the newly elected Zelensky and his team against the anti-constitutional possible decisions that push them. Desire to get everything, and right away, it can be a bad joke. The people elected the Green President with the hope that, unlike Dustenk, he would adhere to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, whatever the reasons for this, and whatever the purpose of this declaration, does not cancel the violation of the Constitution, but rather the contempt of Ukrainian citizens. The Ukrainians paid a very high price for having authority that ignored the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The new authority must be accountable to the citizens, accountable to the law and to the Lord God. In these great days, I look forward to the wisdom of the Ukrainian people and the newly elected President for the sake of Ukraine's power and prosperity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u132	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Jehora Soboljev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u133	I want to draw attention from the parliamentary rostrum again to the security of the next Ukrainian citizen, citizen, public activist, and this is once again the man from Odessa. Vladislav Balinsky is one of the great Odessaths that he keeps for the city of Summer Theatre. He has taken many initiatives in the field of environmental protection, but the Summer Theatre has become very symbolic of Odessa, and it is not only for Odessa that the city, where the interests of corrupters, the interests of those who are trampling by law, have been confronted with the interests of the community. This place in Odessa is very well - known, very important, and it is protected by today’s legislation, including the efforts made by Vladislav. Regrettably, however, the city’s leaders, associated with it, trample heavily on the law and want to build a multistory there, as usual. Vladislav is one of those people who, along with active members of the Odessa community, fight this, save it for the city, it's a great place for the country, and it's very important that no hair falls off his head. You know, unfortunately, President Poshenko, Attorney-General Lucenko, Minister of Internal Affairs Avak at the time of President Poshenko's work, was unable to ensure the security of the Odessa. And there has been a series of attacks on people who have not yet been investigated. We're taking Vladislav to protect our collective security network. We ask all the people who understand the importance of paying attention to helping all the active people in the country before anything happens to them, to the people who fight for the law, to the people who fight for the national interests, to the interests of the communities where they live -- we ask everyone to join in this defense. And of course, this is one of the key tasks of the newly elected President -- to ensure the security of Ukrainians, to ensure the work of the police, the work of the prosecution, the work of the Ukrainian Security Service in all areas of the country, particularly in Odessa, where Russia is still carrying its terrible bloody plans. I hope Vladislav is okay. Let's all join in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u134	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national MP Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u135	On April 26, 1986, 33 years ago, there was a tragedy that entered history as the Chernobyl disaster. I was 12 years old. I remember playing soccer in Kiev, then returning home, and my parents were already talking about an explosion. I remember my parents being rushed to a first - rate demonstration. I remember being accepted in all parts of Ukraine — in Herson, Kharkiv, Planersky, Kobleb, Odessa, Lviv, my classmates, and others. People took in and helped. I remember being accepted in Poltava. It was then that people helped each other, while others sacrificed themselves to the pit of disaster and, with their lives, their bodies, saved all those who were beyond disaster. It was then that nearly 40,000 people from Pripeti took Kiev to themselves. But it happened that the nation forgot a little bit about those people, about the settlers, about the Chaes liquidators. The state gave them benefits, but they were not benefits. This is the kind of money that they are restoring their health that they have almost no left. It's money that helps them survive because they're sick, they're having a hard time. The state forgot about them. This is a very bad example when Kabin does not comply with his own judgments, which have been proved by the court to be enforced. This is shameful when the city’s authorities forget to set aside apartments and pick them up. It's embarrassing when they can't treat them the way they need to. First, the state forgets about the boys who saved people during the disaster, then forgets the boys who saved Ukraine during the Russian invasion. So I want to address not only those present in this room, but the representatives of the Cabinet, the newly elected President, the city head of Kiev, Mr. Klitschka, with the fact that don't forget the people who saved millions of lives at that time. Don't forget them. Give them what they need and what we need by law. Remember that these people have gone on a feat for the sake of our lives, for the sake of all Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u136	Thank you. We have two people in line for the recording, but since we have time, I have been approached by the national deputy Sauka. If you do not object to giving him the opportunity to speak. Let's do it again. No, it's not. Let's not make it happen again, yes, but those people who are in the hall to have the opportunity. You don't mind, do you? Then I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u137	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, today the most distressing day in the church calendar — that day before the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. On that day, people are referring to the death of the Savior. And we must recognize that there is also more than one day of impalement in Ukraine. One of those days was on May 2, 2014, which was a terrible fire in the Clothing, which happened exactly five years ago in the Odessa factory house, a day we have no right to forget. This is the day 48 Ukrainian citizens died. According to many eyewitnesses, a beastlike antihuman action took place that day. People who have expressed their civic position -- whether they all share it or not -- have the right to do so as Ukrainian citizens. This action took place on the surface of the Kulikowa Field. At first, they were pushed into the House of Trades, and then they were locked inside. It was not possible to escape the fire trap. After those who tried to escape through the windows, they fired.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u138	Please turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u139	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u140	I want to talk to those who are listening and watching the plenary. It is unacceptable, especially on such a day, to resort to manipulation and animosity. The fact that the odessa event was a Russian - and - Transnistria disaster is a fact is well - known. And now trying to find the guilty among the Ukrainians in order to face people on their own with their emotions and pain is unacceptable. So, Mr. Igor, if you want to finish your speech, you can only talk about things that do not separate people. Otherwise, unfortunately, I'm going to have to close the meetings and you won't be able to speak to two more deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u141	..when you consider it necessary. I want to say today that in the 21st century, in a country in the center of Europe, death is unacceptable. The same unacceptable death that occurred in Midian, the same unacceptable death that was in Odessa, is unacceptable in a civilized society.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u142	There was a death on the Doñecina. I'm talking about all the deaths, and I'm focusing on one of the regions because Odessa was the same. I'm talking about the punishment of all those who killed in Maidan, all those who killed in Odessa, all those who killed in the Atonement. They must all be punished! Because even during World War II the whole world condemned fascism for crimes. And we have no right, no matter what people's views, to lead the situation to inhumane action, to atrocities against people, no matter what their views. Until we learn to be merciful, tolerant, until we seek compromise, we will be torn apart. And today I am not trying to break people up on Friday. I would like to urge that crucifixes in Ukraine stop, stop throughout the territory, people of different opinions, different religious beliefs, different language, different culture. We are all united by one country — Ukraine. And what happened in Odessa needed to be investigated for an objective purpose. Then, if we're all Democrats, let's create a temporary commission. Let's get those people to their deaths. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u143	I'd like to invite you to the next speech of the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u144	Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians, I would like to welcome everyone to the upcoming Easter celebrations. May there always be peace in our homes. May there always be only good and harmony in our homes. But, at the same time, I would like to go back to the questions that came to me from the Ministry of Health on my parliamentary request about the treatment of oncological residents in the Mironovsky and Boguslav regions. Why did I make that request, and what moved me to do so? We can all see that in recent years Ukraine has simply been loaded with or is simply perceptively affected by a number of diseases, oncological diseases. And we realize that one of the main reasons for this is just April 26, 33 years ago, when there was a pretty big, massive disaster, which was suffered not only by our country, but by very many other countries, by ordinary people. In any event, however, the State has made a commitment today and must provide government programs and comprehensive measures to treat people, including those who suffer from cancer. In my question to Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, I sent in Appendix 24 a call, it's just part of what comes to me almost daily from the people in the Mironovsky and Boguslav regions, people who have oncological families, their loved ones, relatives, children, the elderly. And it gets pretty scary when you see how many of these people there are. And we understand that time is coming. And when you get the answers from the Ministry of Health, I realize that in April months we still have the right tender purchases, and until the winners, Ukraine and the Ministry of Health can't provide these children with drugs, I think that's unacceptable. So once again, in response to my parliamentary request, which was read on March 1, 2019, I would like to refer to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman once again, to Mrs. Uljana Suprun's active responsibility as Minister of Health, to review this request again and every request that is in addition, to each person to send appropriate requests to the district administration, to the district, to the ministry, to the department of professional departments, but to make sure that these people and these children receive adequate treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u145	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the final People's Deputy, Savka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u146	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Today, from this high rostrum, on the Day of Friday, before the great festivals, I want to thank everyone, first of all, the heroes who have been able to defend our nation 33 years ago, have been able to defend these actions, which have overwhelmed not only Ukraine but also Europe. It's about the Chernobyl tragedy. Namely, these warlords who fought on the front were doing their duty in Afghanistan, returning to the territory of Ukraine, and went to Chernobyl with honor, protecting our country from this plague, which, at the time of these acts, in the Communist government, they have turned our state into Chernobyl, into this area that we now need to protect, especially those who need help. Moreover, at present there is war, there is war in the eastern part of our country, where our supporters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces have done their utmost to protect and hold fair, transparent elections, the election of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander. I would like to thank the National Police of our country, who have also done their duty with honour, defending their rights, the rights of a citizen that we could, with dignity, vote in the polling stations for that candidate to the Presidents who was wanted by a Ukrainian citizen. At the moment, the Armed Forces of Ukraine and the National Police need help, social assistance. We must do everything we can to ensure that they do not refuse anything. First of all, they must be provided with everything they need to protect us from this enemy who is now taking over from Moscow. This is our sacred duty. I am addressing you, honourable deputies, of our Supreme Council of Ukraine. We should not ignore this, but do everything we can and adopt these legislative acts, the draft laws that the soldier needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u147	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u148	What the police need to protect us from the enemy of the Russian Federation. So today, I want to thank and wish for health, happiness, success for each of us in protecting our territorial integrity. Glory to the National Police of Ukraine! Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-26-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have finished our work today. I want to remind you that we are on the eve of Easter. Today is a very important day – it is the Day of the Passionate Friday, a great holiday for Christians. It is a symbol of responsibility for one’s position, which, in fact, should be the responsibility of everyone, including politics. I want to wish all the Ukrainians a merry Easter, a delicious Pasca. The next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on May 14, 2019. This morning's session is closed.
