ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please have a good morning, someone you haven't seen. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:14:06]] There are 374 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part three of article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we begin on Friday, and we have up to 30 minutes to announce the parliamentary requests. Hopefully this will happen more quickly. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Condratiuk Oleni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, there have been requests from Ukrainian national deputies. The demand for Ukrainian MPs for the President of Ukraine did not come. The rest of the questions. Sergey Grivka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the proper investigation of the beating of Free Journalist Igor Stakh. Alexander Kachura to the Kyiv City Head for information on the construction of the Shulyava Path. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the rehabilitation of the post offices of Ukraine in the territory of Chernigiv region. Elisabeth Bogacka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Eugene Petrunjak to the head of the Lviv Regional Public Administration on the legality of the restructuring of the municipal non-commercial enterprise of the Lviv District Council of the Lviv Regional Psychiatric Hospital "The Foundation". Andrija Zupanina to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the timely start and continuous passage of the heating season 2019/2020. Romana Ivanisov, head of the Ravenna District State Administration for lack of adequate conditions for obtaining quality secondary education in rural areas. Romana Ivanisov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, said to be investigating criminal conduct. Stepan Ivahiwa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the work from the elimination of the effects of the activities of the Covellian branch of the State Enterprise Ukrvetsanzavod. Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of response measures for infringements by the limited liability of Biogasenergo to the requirements of legislation in the field of the functioning of the electricity market, ecology, sanitation and land relations. Michael Bondar, temporarily acting as director of the Department of Roads, Transport and Communications of the Lviv District Administration, heads of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the roads of the Radehiv district of Lviv (Lopatín United Territorial Community), and the production of project and cost-saving documentation for the repair of road C 141304 of the Pyratinian Majority District. Michael Bondar to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Lviv region on the conflict situation around the land area of 14 hectares [14 ha] of the village of Tetevčica in the Radehiv district of Lviv. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Support of Proposals for Ukraine's Draft Law "On Ukraine's State Budget for 2020", (Registration No. 2000). Julius Yatzik to the acting director of the Communicial Enterprise Heat Channel of the Energy City Council, the first deputy prosecutor of the district’s district, the head of the Energy City of Zaporozhye for information and action. Sergey Ljowczina to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to solve the problem of housing for military personnel. Alexia Honcharenk to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine for the official Ukrainian translation of the full text of the transcript of the telephone conversation between the President of Ukraine and the President of the United States, which took place on 25 July of this year. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Enterprise, Administration of Ukrainian Maritime Ports, State Fiscal Service, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, on the use of effective measures to pay off the tax debt before the budget of the city of Bilgorod-Dnistrovski. Nina Jujanina to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine for non-legislative violations. Boris Prijdjecka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the process of establishing the Novobassane United Territorial Society of the Borbovic district of Chernigiv region. Zinovija Andrivovich is head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the standard wage for connecting electrical installations to electricity networks for consumers. Zinovia Andrivovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about car wash aids for participants in hostilities in eastern Ukraine. Jean Belenjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2020. Vechaslava Rublov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate repair of the T-18-02 road in a section from the city of Rožište to the village of Sokil. Groups of National Deputies (Tachchenka, Sternichuk and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the National Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the National Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to ensure the proper operation of the National Natural Park "Tuzlovski liana". Igora Kolyhayeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a waste management complex in the city of Berisha in the region of Hersson. Taras Batenka to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association for the resolution of the problem of disability and personnel flow, the release of employees of the branch office in the rural area, which was caused by the improper payment of work and the transfer of workers to work on a part-time basis. Dmitry Black to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on ensuring that a comprehensive, fair trial is conducted in the case of the murder of Solonski Mikhail Sergiyyovich, commander of the Operations Department of the Eighth Militaryly Armoured Rescue Corps in the city of Pavlovrad Dnipropetrovsk. Groups of National Deputies (Buymister, Gettmanceva, Angola) to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the Demonopolization of the Cigarette Market and the Causes to Harm the State’s Interests in Monopoly. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of response measures to limit emissions of pollutants into the SP "Energy" air. Irina Konstanovic to the temporarily acting head of the Volin district government administration, the head of the Volin district council for the establishment of a hemodialysis division at the Lubeshiv Central District Hospital. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for blocking the transfer of agricultural land to the communal property of the united territorial communities. Natalia Pippa to Lviv City Head on the unfinished construction of the No. 95 School Sports Complex in Lviv on the street of Cavalaridze, 15. Stepan Ivakhiv to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine for the establishment of the reasons for the massacre of Shack Lakes in the Shaka National Park. Sergey Bunin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of environmental security and the elimination of garbage dumps located in the territory of the Gnydin village council of the Kyiv region. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prevention of the loss of child rights protection functions during the restructuring of district government administrations. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the violation of the requirements of human resources law for the Services of Children in the local executive authorities. Groups of National Deputies (Steps, Sochis, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the urgent repair of the M-18 Motorway in the area from the city of Zaporozhye to the city of Novomoskowsk. Sergey Stepa to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for immediate financing of the reconstruction of road travel in Zaporozhye on Karpenka Karago Street. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the change and establishment of the borders of the town of Ovrók Ovróck district of the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the transfer of the objects of the sport and health assignment of the regional branch of the South West Railway of the public stock company Ukrzaliznica to the municipal property of the city of Korostenia. Groups of National Deputies (Herasimova, Heratchenko and others) A total of 13 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to give a legal assessment of the position of the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Vereshuk, and to express the Government's official position on the implementation of Ukraine's constitutionally established strategic course for obtaining full membership of Ukraine in NATO. Alexander Bakumov to the Attorney-General of the United States of America, the Kharkiv Heat Networks, the Kharkiv City Head, on the issue of debt for employees' salaries, the restoration of hot water supply and the readiness for the heating season of the Harkow Heat Network Community Enterprise. Julia Ioffe to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to resolve the issue of gas supply and full functioning of central heating systems in the city of Gyrska and Zlote of the Pásnjan district of Lugansk region during the heating period 2019/2020. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase funding for State budget subsidies to local budgets and to support individual health care facilities in the city of Nova Kahouka in the Hersonian region and Hersonian region as a whole. Alexia Honcharenko to the Chief of the Office of the President of Ukraine for the full text of the transcripts of all three telephone conversations held between President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine and President of the Russian Federation Volodymyr Putin, which took place on 11 July, 7 August and 7 September of this year. Groups of National Deputies (Jatzenka, Batenka and others – only 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures aimed at the preservation and restoration of a unique monument to the architecture of the 19th century – the architectural and landscape complex "Sadiba Dahovsky". Arsenia Pushkarenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the need to hold a previous public discussion of the Kiev City Target Programme to control the maintenance of domestic animals and to regulate the number of homeless animals by humane methods for 2020-2022. Dmitry Lubinz to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the wages paid by the heads of the village councils. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to amend article 43 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the solution of problems with service and the failure to destroy the route, which is on the M-18 Kharkiv-Simferopol State Highway and E-105 European Value. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on the need for amendments to Appendix 89 of the Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 493 of 18 March 2015. Sergia Koleboshina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the bridge crossing through the Dry Lyman with approaches to the village of Malodolin City of the Black Sea Odes region and the removal of risks to the life and health of citizens. Alexia Zmerenecki to the director of the State Bureau of Investigation regarding the requirement of an improper claim. Sergey Schwetz to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Director of the Department of Cultural Heritage of the Kyiv City Council Executive Body (Kyiv City State Administration), Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the current legislation by the Kyiv City Council in renting a limited liability to the Russian-Investment Land Facility under the construction of a residential complex on Eygen Sverstuk Street, 54. Stepan Cuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to agree immediately on an increase in the number of transport permits for carriers travelling to EU countries. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine (may be a little quieter?) on the need to urgently implement an effective mechanism for the destruction and movement of unfit pesticides to prevent infringements by market participants, to improve the protection of the environment. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the analysis of the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 14 August 2019 No.804 on the effectiveness of the protection of citizens' property rights for the full disclosure of pensions. Paul Frolov to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Kiev City Head on the status of implementation of the Kiev Development Strategy by 2025 and Kiev Economic and Social Development Programme 2018-2020. Paul Frolov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the transfer of the Hotel Court in the Contract Square to the municipal property of the Kyiv community. Alexia Kucherenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on problems with the implementation of the programme of gas production and the Ukrainian Energy Strategy. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Lichman, Lubinca) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the activities of an organized criminal group operating in the territory of the city of Zvenigradka in the Cherka region. Sergey Litvinenka to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need to take action on the food poisoning situation in the city of Brezne Plains. Sergey Litvinenka, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, on the urgent response and use of necessary measures in connection with the case of mass food poisoning in the city of Brezne Plains. Groups of National Deputies (Casaias, Steppes, and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state support of domestic aviation companies. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the referral of 260 Ukrainian citizens to the Ministry of Health in Kharkiv as a facility that is part of the single system of radiation safety and protection of the population. Larissa Bilozoz to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Health Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, regarding the use of necessary measures to finance the field service and obstetric centres for the costs of the National Health Service of Ukraine or the medical subsidy. Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, on the restoration of funding for socio-economic development measures and programmes and projects funded by the State Regional Development Fund. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Agency of Ukraine for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes, Head of the Lviv District Public Administration for preventing the start of the heating season in the city of the New Division of the Lviv Region. Paul Bukintz, Bakuntz to the Minister for the Development of Communities in Ukraine, head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the Debt of Salaries by Managers of the Heat Power Plant in Novoyavorysk. Alexander Litvinov to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the settlement of cargo transport relations with the Association of Associations of Cruises. Alexander Litvinov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on some issues of financing and support for the agri-industrial complex. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the introduction of an automatic photo and video-fixing system on Ukrainian highways. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the 20th year forecast in Ukraine's State Budget for the construction of the Balgrad Group Water Supply to provide drinking water to residents of the southern districts of the Odessa region. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of the creation of credit debt and the timely payment of salaries to medical personnel in the Odessa region. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the non-elimination of art schools in Ukraine and for the lifting of orders from the Ministry of Culture Nos. 352 and No. 628. Igora Kisilova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the consideration of the appeal of the public organization "Polish Shield". Marina Bardinau to the director of the Kyivmiskswietlo utility for the lighting of the Marshall Konyeva street in the Bolosiew district of Kiev. Marina Bardinau to Kiev City Head for the repair of the underground pedestrian crossing on the street of Natalia Uzhiv and the avenue of truth in Kiev Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister, for improving social security, and improving the quality of life of children with diabetes. Mikli Kucher to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Wynnick district government administration, for a proper review of the documents on the granting of the status of liquidation of the consequences of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant Volodymyr Savchuku. Marijana Bezugola to the Kyiv City Head about some of the issues of the Municipal Institute of Higher Education, the Kyiv Academy of Arts. Alexander Zavávnević to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the state-owned company Cherkasi-Torf. Alexander Zavávnević to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the work of road repair, which is constantly carried by dangerous cargo. Paul Melnik to the first deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio talk about the lack of coverage of the T2 broadcast signal in the cities of Tokmak, Primorsk, as well as in the settlements in Mikhailovsky, Yakimivsky, Priazovsky, Wesselivsky, and other areas of the Zaporozhye region. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of funding for the budget programme "Potna voda Ukraine" (funding from the state budget has been suspended since 2015) with the change of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law "On the State Budget for Ukraine for 2020" and the provision of regional programmes in the Zaporozhye region, particularly in the cities of Tokmak, Primorsk, villages of the city type Veselma, Mikhailovci, as well as in the settlements of Primorskie, Mihailski, Prizakowski, Yakimivski and other areas where drinking water does not meet the relevant standards. Igora Vasiliev to the director of the regional branch of the Southwest Railway to prevent the reduction of railway workers. Igora Kisilova to the Chief of Administration of the Ukrainian State Criminal Enforcement Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the review of the appeal of a citizen of Eugene Remichuk. Oleg Volosin to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on a letter from the Signal Plus Caring Corporation in Mariupol on the boundaries of the line of separation within the area of operation of the United Forces. Andrija Stryharski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Public and Territorial Development of Ukraine, the State Service of Ukraine for Extraordinary Situations, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Cerkas Regional Public Administration for the consideration of the citizens of the district of Spelyan region regarding the clarification and resolution of all circumstances resulting from the many years of reconstruction of the central district hospital, the provision of ecological and sanitary standards, as well as the comprehensive protection and protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. Andrija Stryharski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Community Development and the Territory of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Cerkas District Authority on the consideration of the collective appeal of residents of the city of Cherkaske Town to preserve from the destruction of the gardens of Simyrenków and the establishment of the National Historical and Cultural Reserve of the Family of Simirenków in the village of Mliyev Hrodishtištenski district of Cherkaske district. Olga Savchenko to the head of the Kyiv district government regarding the illegal construction of buildings around the Dnipro River in the Borispil district These are all questions, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u3	Thank you, Olena Constantine. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for work. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoints the members of the Central Electoral Commission to serve on behalf of the President of Ukraine. According to article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, 17 members of the Commission are members. The Supreme Council regulations provide for the following agenda: a statement by the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of the Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, up to 5 minutes; a statement by the Deputy Head of the Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and the construction of Alina Leonidivna Zagorujko, up to 3 minutes; statements by MPs and groups, up to 3 minutes each; statements by the National Deputies, up to 6 minutes; and a decision by the alphabetical order of each candidate individually. Is there a denial? None. Then let us move on to the question. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u4	Your Honour, Mr. Head, my fellow officers! Ensuring respect for the principles and principles of the electoral process, the implementation of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens, the same application of electoral legislation throughout Ukraine are key tasks of the Central Electoral Commission. Today, one of the priorities of the Supreme Council is the formation of a competent independent and impartial commission. In view of this, the President of Ukraine, on the basis of the proposals of the MP factions and groups, submitted, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, a nomination for the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission of the following persons: Bojarčuk Oksana Borisovni, Buglaka Jurija Alexanderovich, Gathaullini Olena Auhativna, Gevka Andrija Evgenovich, Głushenko Victoria Anatolievich, Grena Vitalija Vejacheslavovich, Didenko Oleg Mikolajovich, Dubovika Sergia Olegovich, Evstigniewova Andrija Sergiyovich, Efreme Olena Oleni Olexijivni, Karmazy Alexandri Alexanderovni, Lyubchenka Pavel Mikolajovich, Miroshnenko Jurija Romanović, Spelk Vladimir Grigorovich, Plukar Vitalia Volodymyrovich, Sergija Alexandrovich and Fritzki Yuri Olegovich. These candidatures have considerable practical experience and perfect knowledge of Ukrainian and international electoral law. The vast majority of them are professional lawyers. The appointment of appropriate candidates will allow us to form a competent independent and, above all, an impartial composition of the Central Electoral Commission, which will be able to provide the highest level of electoral organisation in Ukraine. In addition, the nominations were heard yesterday at a meeting of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, please support the submission of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u5	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The Deputy Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Rule, Regional Development, and the construction of Aline Leonidivna Zagorujko is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u6	Good afternoon! Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development at its meeting on October 3, 2019, discussed the appointment of the President of Ukraine to serve as members of the Central Electoral Commission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In his statement, the Head of State proposes that 17 candidates be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is the full composition of the Central Electoral Commission, as provided for in part three of article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. Along with the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, other materials were provided containing information about candidates for the Central Electoral Commission. After considering the appointment of the President of Ukraine as members of the Central Electoral Commission, the Committee notes that its introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine corresponds to section 21 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and the proposed candidates meet the requirements of the members of the Commission set out in articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission. The Committee also points out that the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission provides that before taking office as a member of this commission, an oath shall be made at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In doing so, the proposals concerning the date, time and procedure for the making of the said oath, in accordance with part three of article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, are submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a committee to which the matter is known. Taking into account the above, having heard information from the subcommittee on elections, referendums and other forms of direct democracy, candidates for the Central Electoral Commission, having determined the position of Ukrainian national deputies, members of the committee invited to the meetings and having discussed the issues in a comprehensive manner, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to appoint members of the Central Electoral Commission: Bojarčuk Oksana Borisovna, Buglaka Jurija Alexandrovich, Gathaullina Olen Aukhatovna, Gevka Andrija Evgenovića, Głushenko Viktorija Anatoliyevna, Grenya Vitalija Vejacheslavovich, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, Dubovik Sergija Olegovich, Evstignyev Andrija Sergiyovich, Efremary Irina Aleksivna, Karmaz Alexandro Alexandrovna, Lyubchenka Pavel Mikolajovich, Miroshnenko Yuri Romanović, Presley Vladimir Grigorovovich, Plukar Vitalija Volodymyrovich, St. Serg. Alexanderovich, Fritzki Jury Olegovich, took the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after each of the proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u7	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u8	each of the proposed candidates separately and through appropriate draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the issue of making an oath immediately after the appointment. Dear colleagues, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speeches from the MP factions and groups. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u10	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable candidates for the Central Electoral Commission are now being considered in the session room on an extremely important issue: the question of the creation of a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission at the request of the President. Of course, the Central Election Commission should work in an environment that should ensure fair and transparent results in the elections. Nothing but legality in the work of the Central Electoral Commission, nor does our faction of the Fatherland, no, I'm sure the entire session room will require the Central Electoral Commission. Some of the members of the Central Electoral Commission who worked in the previous warehouse were transferred by the President and into the next warehouse. And I would like those good examples in the work of the Central Electoral Commission that were being watched to be transferred to the next CBC. At the same time, there can be no political composition in the decision-making and decision-making of the Central Electoral Commission. The Central Election Commission must be the body that will perform the technical function of establishing the results of the vote, whether it is the election of the Ukrainian national deputies or whether it is the election of the President. But what's important is that we finally start to form such CBC warehouses so that we don't have to end the Central Electoral Commission's mandate in this session hall for the term. It is important to ensure the stability and stability of the work of the CWC, when Parliament changes, that the presidents change, and the Central Election Commission operates in a normal manner, by law, and regardless of which authority the Central Election Commission clearly performs its functions. I would like to wish future members of the Central Election Commission good work, well-considered decisions and, most importantly, that democracy in Ukraine should always be ensured. Good luck! And we, as the Fatherland faction, are going to vote for the formation of a new CBC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna, Voice faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u12	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u13	Again, I can't hear. The Romanesque, the Voice faction. Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u14	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. Every day you and I make dozens of decisions here. Yesterday it was 23 laws and bills, and now we have another decision to make. But the weight of this decision is much greater because today you and I are forming one of the state institutions, one of the most important building blocks of the state today we are making our decision. So I want each of us to come to this decision with the utmost responsibility and understand the consequences that this decision will have. The Voice faction voted against the release of the previous CBC. Because we think that government institutions can't be changed quickly every time in the area, despite estimates, including international organizations. I want to remind all of us that it's not just that C.V.C.C. is formed for seven years. For a period of 7 years, this body should not be politically involved in making it as objective as possible. And today, when you and I make decisions about the appointment of a new composition of the CIA, I would like to wish to have all of us, both Parliament and the new composition of the CWC, in order that this decision and this composition of the CEVC fulfil their responsibilities as objectively as possible, as unbiasedly as possible and in accordance with all laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. And so that we don't dissolve this compound in a year, in two, in half, and so that we can all be proud of the results of this organ's work, and in seven years, we'll review the work and evaluate it. That's why the Voice faction advocates the formation of strong institutions by professional criteria. And we also hope that the next composition of the CLTC will not be shaped according to the quota principle. I very much hope that this will be the last precedent when the factions offer members of the CLTC, and that the next composition of the CLTC we will form in another way. And this, the quota warehouse, will still be engaged and as objective as possible, and will do everything professionally in accordance with the law. The Voice faction will vote in favour of the appointment of the CLTC and will monitor and monitor very closely to ensure that this composition carries out its duties professionally, legally, objectively, and primarily engaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u16	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Honorable Ukrainian people, honourable members of Parliament, candidates for the Central Election Commission! At the committee meeting yesterday, we heard every candidate from all the MP factions. I can say with confidence that each of these candidates, he is a professional in the field of electoral law enforcement. I'd like the next Central Election Commission to show you the standards for settling all electoral processes at the highest level. And we should, as legislators, provide that with quality legislation. We need to open up mechanisms so that the Central Election Commission can actually do its functions and have the authority to have no clones, so that we don't have any registrations of the ununderstood candidates, so that we don't have any cancellations of the candidates. You, each of you, have a very great responsibility, each of you must place on your desk the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law on the Central Election Commission and understand the level of responsibility you will take on today. Because the electoral right of citizens is to choose and be elected, it is fundamental, and I stress that, and I always say that, the fundamental right of citizens of Ukraine. And you have to make sure of that. And I urge you not to repeat the path that was in the previous Central Electoral Commission. You have to stop these disgraceful incidents that were before. You have a high responsibility, and seven years from now, you have to look at this Parliament and every citizen of Ukraine who wants to be represented in local councils, in district councils, in the Supreme Council, that you have indeed exercised your powers under the letter of the law. On your way! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u17	Friz Irina Vasilovna. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainians! And you know, I want to thank the previous constituency of the electoral commission, the Central Electoral Commission, which conducted two flawless electoral campaigns where today's authorities have received a record number of votes and despite all the heat and sonics that have been going on since January about falsifications that something there has shown that they can not only count but to enforce laws. The presidential and parliamentary campaigns included a record number of international observers, the OSCE mission, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the representatives of Canada, the United States, our colleagues. All have declared these elections irreprehensible. And in fact, it's wild to hear it today again and again and the sobs of some young people who don't respect fair elections, questioning their legitimacy in this room. On the integrity of the work of the electoral commission of the past and the fact that it was a purely political decision -- its dissolution, adopted by the Supreme Council today, says that there are wonderful representatives in today's composition of the Central Electoral Commission of the previous, who will work beautifully in the next. And so when you say something, you learn to respect your country, its institutions, and the people who are now representing this next body. And you know, the dissolution of the CWC was a completely political decision, just like the appointment is now selective, because "European Solidarity" was added to the next composition of the Central Electoral Commission by two representatives, including the voice of the public, the voice of activists. We have presented Yuri Buglak and Alexander Chernenko, the multi-year head of the election committee of Ukraine, the author of the election codex, a man who has conducted dozens of honest electoral monitoring campaigns. And what we are not given today in the list of Alexander Chernenka tells us about the selective treatment of those people who have been delegated to the Central Election Commission by opposition. Dear colleagues, what was the key task of the new CTC, which is being chosen today? It's primarily a local election, and we realize that it will be relied upon, perhaps, by the implementation of the so-called Steinmeyer formula. And in this context, I would like to remind you that the elections under the OSCE standards and the elections that are generally in line with the EU standards are not synonymous. We refer to all future members of the CLTC, remembering that in general this is the Kremlin’s scenario and that the Ukrainian elections must be in full conformity with the high standards of the OSCE. Temporaryly displaced persons are expected to participate, and disarmament, Russian military withdrawal, and technology are expected to take place there first. It has to be a closed border just to be in condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u19	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u20	only in safety conditions, only in conditions of demilitarization can elections be held in Donbassa. And let's not forget Crimea! That is the position of our political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u22	Please pass the word to the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u23	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u24	Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity, north of Odščina. Two minutes, please. There's our next representative, they're giving me the word. Thank you. Dear friends, today we are looking at a very important question, and we can see how this very important question is being addressed in some, well, ridiculous terms. We're told it's a turbine. Well, it's some kind of "stupid" thing. What's the point of this? Yesterday we received an application from the President of Ukraine to appoint new members of the Central Electoral Commission. It happened yesterday after lunch. Today, which is 11 o'clock, we are already voting on these candidates. It's been less than 24 hours. I have a simple question. How can such a thing be, where is the hurry? Do we have an election tomorrow, my friends? Maybe tomorrow you want to hold an election at Donbassa, don't you? Then where are we in such a hurry? Why didn't we give Ukrainian society, journalists, experts the opportunity to look at these candidates? Who are these people? There's a girl up there, it says "notaryus." That's great, but in the country we have tens of thousands of notaries, they're all going to be on the Central Electoral Commission or something? You haven't given the Ukrainian community a chance to look at these candidates. You have not given the Ukrainian society the opportunity to discuss these candidates. You destroyed the last Central Election Commission because you wanted more power, even more power. You didn't care that she only worked for a year. You told us that you were doing this because they were doing something wrong, but today, the Ukrainians, the "Serial of the People" faction put several active members of the CBC into the new warehouse. I mean, does that mean they did everything right? So the only goal that comes out is to take power from the C.V.C.C. to make the C.I.C.A. green in our country? With these approaches, you're going to lead the country to a green face, so you have to stop, you have to give time, you have to discuss candidatures, you're going to discuss bills, and then we're going to work qualitatively, or you're going to get the country into big, big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u25	Please welcome National Deputy Maria Mikolayovna Ionova, European Solidarity Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u26	Good day, dear colleagues, you know, really, the question is very painful, because we are long. In the previous call, a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission was discussed for a very long time, and as it happened, in fact, that they worked for one year, they would hold two elections, and all our international partners recognized these elections as very transparent and democratic. And I think that was really unfair in relation to the previous members of the Central Electoral Commission. "European Solidarity," she points out, because you really followed the laws of Ukraine, you didn't let the elections in Donbassa be held under guns, because the Steinmayer formula is purely a mine deal, on the run of elections, and before that, a safe ingredient is to be made. And whatever the President is, and whatever government there is, Parliament, you have, you have to speak on behalf of the people and follow the laws of Ukraine. So I sincerely hope that you will, indeed, continue the work and continue the honest work that the previous composition of the Central Electoral Commission has begun, and you will not be ashamed to look into your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Savrasov Maxim. Pottery, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u28	Dear friends, you'll have to listen to me for two more minutes, three minutes. Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, faction of European Solidarity, north of Odščina. I want to draw your attention to what is actually happening in our country today. To talk about what seems to be going on as if there are reforms, new approaches, new faces, actually there are completely different things going on. The whole state is already talking about how the head of the strategic department at the General Intelligence Directorate has appointed a man of the "95th Quarter" accountant, who has traveled ten steps in order to take up the general position of Lieutenant Colonel. Now the whole country, I want to let you know, is looking for relatives from 95th Street, you know? Maybe there's a lightman or a cashier or a security guard working in 95 blocks, the whole country's looking for them. Because today it is a guarantee that you can have a career in the public service. I think we have some of these people on the Central Electoral Commission today, somewhere, we'll find that, because we haven't had time to figure it out, we'll definitely find that there are relatives, friends, saints. We're out of the age of bestiality. The age of "marriage" and "95th." We'll find it with you. But what can we do when the vote takes place? Nothing. The turbochargers worked, they flew on. A new composition of the CBC that will do anything. Next question. We were told that the CFC is what we need, for referendums, for example. In his pre-election program, Zelensky wrote that his first law would not be about national ownership and referendums. Where's the People's Landing Act, my friends?Oh, my God! Mr. Volodymyr, where's the People's Landing Act? We're just reading your conversations with the different presidents, and the hair's coming out of it, and there's nothing about the people. Why do we have land, and there is no referendum on earth? Why do we have some processes on Donbas, the formulas you're trying to cover up, you call Steinmeier, like a fig leaf, you're covering up what's underneath it, and who's underneath it? Putin. So you're covering it up. Why don't you make a referendum on that? Let's ask the Ukrainian society. You said there'd be people. If there's no nation, and there's only 95 quarters, then we're not getting any light. And then it doesn't matter who's in the C.V.C. -- notary's another one, some other relative of yours -- it doesn't matter. Because CEC today really needs us to hold referendums, ask people what they want, what they see their country, and not just follow your instructions. As you have now turned the Supreme Council of Ukraine into a notary office that prints everything that comes from the Bank's, so you're trying to move these notaries into the CBC. Here's the thing, guys. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the discussion of the matter has been concluded in fact and not in fact as we have seen. But let's move on to making a decision. In accordance with part three of article 209 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission shall be carried out by an open vote on each candidature separately. A member of the Central Electoral Commission is considered to be a candidate for a post supported by a majority of the votes of the national deputies from the Supreme Council’s constitutional composition, that is, at least 226 votes of the Ukrainian national deputies are required. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I will read out the regulations that have been proposed by the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development. I'm voting on the Order of Assignment of Boyarchuk. Boyarczuk, I'm sorry, Oksan Borisovna is a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration 2211). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please support and vote. [[11:08:18]] For 355 Against zero, hold on to four. I am voting for the Order on the appointment of Buglak Yuri Alexandrovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (register No. 2212). Please support and vote. You don't? It's a good word. Excuse me. Where's the candidate? Please turn on Heratschenko's microphone for a minute of motive. This is a candidate for European Solidarity. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I am not a candidate for the Central Election Commission. So no "oh," please. Now for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u31	Wait, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u32	Mr. Head, well, we're in Parliament right now, not on the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u33	Colleagues, please let me finish, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u34	Dear Ukrainians, we see in which wonderful atmosphere elections are taking place, voting for a key body to hold honest and transparent subsequent local elections and so on. I want to remind you how the procedure was going on at all, and now the question is, where is Mr. Buglak? We put forward proposals on two candidates for the Central Election Commission on time as "European Solidarity" is Mr. Chernenko and Mr. Buglak. We were informed during the course of the present and the performances, our colleague Mr. Hotcharenko, only yesterday there was information that candidates would be considered on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u35	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u36	meetings of the profile committee. Now Yuri Buglak is on his way abroad and he's just not physically able to come to yesterday's discussion. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u38	I think it's very important that we follow procedure on time. These are all the consequences of the procedure. A breach of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u39	Regarding the reasoning procedure, the word Zagorujko Alini Leonidivni, deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, indeed, Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich is a candidate who is involved in the proposal of the EU faction, and this is the person who did not appear at either the subcommittee meeting or the committee meeting. But they say it's for good reason, he's on official business. Actually, that's why he's not in our meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u41	The motive is Voice. Who? Password? Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, one important thing. The law does not provide for the presence of candidates in the Parliamentary Chamber during the appointment of a new composition of the CLTC. Yesterday, for the first time, a subcommittee and a committee of messages arrived at lunchtime. We took a quick look. We're looking today. But please, let's not make this a farce. There's a submission, there's a committee, so please be sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, I propose we proceed to the vote. Once again, I put to the vote the Order on the appointment of Buglak Jury Alexanderovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration number 2212). Please support and vote. [[11:12:46]] For 345. Against two, hold on to 17. Decision taken. But, dear colleagues, I ask Buglik to come and talk to the committee. This will be correct in relation to other colleagues who are represented today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Order for the appointment of Gathaullina Elena Auhatovna. I'm sorry if I said something wrong. Number 2213. Please support and vote. [[11:13:42]] For-360 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. I am voting for the Order on the appointment of Hevik Andrija Evgenović as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration number 2214). Please support and vote. [[11:14:15]] For 353 Against two, hold on to five. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 43, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 18, "The Voice" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 21. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order. I would like to vote on the Order on the appointment of Gluschenko Victoria Anatoliyovna as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Registration No. 2215). Please support and vote. [[11:15:08]] For 359 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please show the factions. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 227, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 43, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 18, "The Voice" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 21. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the Order on the appointment of Grenya Vitalia Viacheslavovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (register No. 2216). Please support and vote. [[11:15:59]] For 361 Against zero, hold on to one. Decision taken. I am voting for the Order on the appointment of Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Registration No. 2217). Please support and vote. [[11:16:30.]] For 367 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the order on the appointment of Dubovik Sergio Olegovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (register No. 2218). Please support and vote. [[11:17:04]] For 334 Against 15, hold on to five. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 223, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 42, "European Solidarity" – 15, "Fathership" – 15, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 21. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Decision on the appointment of Eustignieev Andrija Sergiyovich as a member of the Central Election Commission (Registration No. 2219). Please support and vote. [[11:17:56]] For 370. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Order on the appointment of Efraem Irina Aleksyivna as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Registration No. 2220). Please support and vote. [[11:18:28]] For 373 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a decree on the appointment of Karmaza Alexandra Alexandrovna as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration 2221). Please support and vote. [[11:18:59]] For 375 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Order on the appointment of Lover Paul Mikolaiovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration 2222). Please support and vote. [[11:19:30]] For 370. Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for a Decision on the appointment of Miroshnik Yuri Romanović as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration 2223). Please support and vote. [[11:20:03]] For 310 Against - 27, held - 20. Decision taken. Tell me about the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 197, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 44, "The European Solidarity" – 12, "The Fatherland" – 15, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 0, "the Non-Factional" – 25. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Order concerning the appointment of Presbyterian Vladimir Grigorovitch as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (registration number 2224). Please support and vote. [[11:20:51]] For 366 Against - 1, hold - 0. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Order on the appointment of Plucar Vitaly Volodymyrovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (Registration No. 2225). Please support and vote. [[11:21:24]] For 368 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a bill of passage to the vote. on the appointment of Posty Sergey Alexanderovich as a member of the Central Electoral Commission (register No. 2226). Please support and vote. [[11:21:56]] For 370. Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a bill of passage to the vote. on the appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of Fritzki Jury Olegovich (Registration No. 2227). Please support and vote. [[11:22:29]] For 371 Against 0, hold on to 0. I welcome the members of the Central Electoral Commission. So the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointed members of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the profile committee, along with the Apparatus, to draw up decisions on the outcome of the decision taken. Fellows, wait, there is more to do with the Central Election Commission. According to article 217 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, members of the Central Electoral Commission shall swear before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Bojarczuk Oksana Borissovna is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u44	Good afternoon! I, Boyarczuk Oksana Borisovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u45	Thank you. Let's take an oath. Hello. Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich is invited to take the oath. [[B in m in s a l in]] None. Gathaullina Helen Auhativna is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u46	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for your confidence. I, Gathaullina Olena Auhativna, have sworn to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Hello. To the conclusion of the oath, Glushchenko Victoria Anatoliyevna is invited. It's Victoria's hamster, and after that, it's Gevko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u48	I, Gluschenko Victoria Anatoliyevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u49	Thank you. Hello. Gevko Andry Evgenovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u50	I, Gevko Andriy Evgenovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u51	Hello. Green Vitaly Vejacheslavovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u52	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs! Swear by a member of the Central Electoral Commission. I, Gren Vitaly Vejacheslavovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. October 4, 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u53	Hello. As a matter of fact, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u54	I, Didenko Oleg Mikolaiovich, have sworn to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Hello. Dubovic Sergey Olegovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u56	I, Dubovic Sergey Olegovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u57	Hello. Eustigneus Andriy Sergiyovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u58	Good afternoon! I, Eustigeniev Andriy Sergiyovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising their powers in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u59	Hello. To make an oath, Ephraim’s Irina Alexiyevna is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support. I, Efraemova Irina Alexiyevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the powers of the Central Electoral Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u61	Hello. Welcome back. Let's fold. Karmaza Alexander Alexandrovna is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u62	I, Karmaza Alexander Alexandrovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in the resolution of the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u63	Hello. Lyubchenko Paul Mikolaiovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u64	I, Ljubchenko Paul Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u65	Hello. Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich is invited to take the oath. Prepared: Pebble by Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u66	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, invited, guests! Let me take the oath of a member of the Central Electoral Commission. I, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich, have sworn to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. Dear colleagues, there have been great challenges for our country. And that composition of the Central Electoral Commission, which the President proposed to Parliament, coming from those proposals that came from factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, to my conviction, both professional and organizational and personal, and, most importantly, valuable qualities, are able to give a decent answer to all these challenges. It's an honor to work in such a composition of the Central Electoral Commission. And I'm sure the C.V.C.C. won't let you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u67	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u68	Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Hello. Preacher Vladimir Grigorovitch is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u70	I, Přepeluk Vladimir Grigorovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u71	Hello. Plukar Vitaly Volodymyrovich is invited to take the oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u72	Thank you. I, Plucar Vitaly Volodymyrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u73	Hello! Postural Sergey Alexanderovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u74	Good afternoon! I, Postojni Sergey Aleksandrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues under the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u75	Hello. Frykski Yuri Olegovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u76	I, the French Yuri Olegovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in matters that fall within the authority of the Commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u77	Congratulations. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the Central Electoral Commission, I welcome you. I wish you success in this not simple but very important direction of work in our country. And I am confident of the constructive work between the Central Electoral Commission and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Congratulations again. And to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, a statement has been made to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: in accordance with article 51 of the Rules, I request a recess of 30 minutes. Signed by two factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I announce a break until 12:30. Let's start our work at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Sit down, take your seats. Please. Dear colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready for work. Dear colleagues, you have been asked to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain provisions of criminal procedural law (registration number 1009). It's a second reading again. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u82	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Today, your opinion is proposed by the committee for second reading of Bill No. 1009, which is called "To amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain provisions of criminal procedural law." What is the essence of this bill, which we have already sent with you to read again? In fact, it removes parts of Lozov’s rights that violate human rights, restrict the ability of the judicial authorities to investigate properly and to carry out a qualitative investigation. We've done a lot of work on the profile committee that I run, and in the hall, here with you before the vote. We've identified a number of key points that you and I need to identify and count. We're going to get the table. The table also contains 279 rights, of which 52 are included, including editorially, one cancelled, the other rejected. But before we go to the table, I want to focus on what, according to the hall, I'm going to go through the amendments right now, and we're going to define the following. Article 219 of the Criminal Procedural Code provides for the current series of so - called fact - guided investigations. That is, from the time of the entry into the single register of pretrial investigations until the investigator and the prosecutor have completed this investigation. We propose, by agreement of the hall, and we will now talk about this, cancel the proposals put forward by Bill 1009 to Article 219, and leave it in its proper order, which provides that all actual conduct should be clearly defined for investigation. This term is the limit, it stops. If the investigator is unable to investigate, the prosecutor is asking him to continue, but if he has not worked, he has not done all the necessary investigations or done more than enough, it is unnecessary to do so. And the second. In view of this change to articles 294 and 295, prime 1. I'm begging you, we're leaving now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u83	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u84	Please keep an eye out. In addition, another issue that we have agreed with you is the question of the continuation of pretrial investigation periods after the suspicion has been declared. The point is that the current article of the Criminal Procedure Code says that the prosecutor continues for up to 3 months, after 3 months, up to 6 months, and within 12 months, the investigating judge continues to be executed. We leave this proposal in the project by voting on the corresponding revisions that we are about to make, and I hope that the hall will be supported. In addition, we exclude positions, paragraphs relating to the bill, the law, more specifically, adopted on transgressions that take effect from 01.01 the following year, as it also amends 219 articles. In order to harmonise these two laws, we exclude any changes to this law -- the law -- I mean, criminal offences. That's the general concept of rights that we're going to follow right now. I'm going to announce a position supported by the committee, and I'm going to base it, and I'm going to tell you what procedures we agreed on in the hall, and which I'm going to ask for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u85	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Amendment number two, National Deputy Grib. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I will no longer be sounding the bill because it was already bugged that time and did not get enough votes. But what I mean is, do you know what we now call the work of the Supreme Council people? It's just a dictatorship. And unfortunately, today we really support that name. I'm asking you very much to look at this law, to look at it and look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u87	Are you insisting on the vote? I'm betting on the vote number 2 of the people's representative of the Greeb. Please identify and vote. [[12:58:12]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 3, People's Deputy Danielov. Don't insist. Amendment number 5, National Deputy Yatzik, Julia Yatzik. Julia Gregory, don't you think? Are you going to insist on other adjustments? Thank you. Amendment number 6, Pavlük. Don't insist. Is the peacock going to insist on the railing? No. 8, Princey. Will you insist on your work? Thank you. Edit number 9, Grisb. Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze, 10 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we had a discussion with you on the first reading of a few rights of similar meaning when it comes to the fact that a deputy should not be held accountable for his political responsibility. to criminal responsibility for his political activities, that is, when he cooperates with voters, when he attends meetings, when he works meetings, when he processes appeals and queries. Unfortunately, the committee rejected all variations of the amendment. I'd like to ask you, colleagues, once again to pay attention to this amendment and take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting on the vote? Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze, do you insist? Thank you. Mamka National MP, number 11. Don't insist. 13th Amendment, Aliksiyczuk. Don't insist. 14th, Frolow. 15th, Jurchishin. Are you going to insist on some kind of a readjustment? 16th, Bakumov. Don't insist. 17th, Fraschenec. 18th, Mama. Mom's in the hall? You'll insist, won't you? That's 18 percent. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u90	Honorable Chairman and Honourable People’s Deputies! I want to say with my permission that, according to the Ukrainian Law on Forensics, I want to leave the article in its original form. The judicial expertise in criminal proceedings should be carried out by state specialized agencies. With our changes to criminal procedural legislation, we report on what state experts, other expert bodies and other experts can do. But in the order of registering other professionals, it's essentially not envisaged, and I think it's too early to file any kind of complaint that might be used by more parties to the protection and delay of the trial itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 18 of the Mamka People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. [[13:01:42]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 19, Makarov. Don't insist. Amendment number 20, Vlasenko. He's gone. 21st, Cimbaluk. Will you insist on your own? No, it's not. Thank you. 22nd, Spinov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the Sphinx microphone, 22 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u92	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I also believe that investigators and prosecutors should only refer to government experts. Because when a prosecutor accuses a person of a serious crime, he has to assign expertise to an authority, not to look for a convenient private specialist, a hairdresser. That must be the case at least in a criminal case. Please explain why my application is rejected. And I also insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u93	Do you insist on voting? Explain then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u94	Colleagues, the bill is aimed at demonosulating state experts, including criminal conduct. We have private notaries, we have private government contractors. And before that, there were a lot of questions when it was accepted. Let's finally take a step and make sure that these experts are properly given and certified. At the same time, however, we will give them the opportunity to work in criminal activities. Some experts today view it as a year and a year and a half and await its completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u95	Thank you. The committee does not support this operation. Will you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 22 of People's Deputies. Please identify and vote. [[13:03:38]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Edit the number. Huh? We've already passed. Dear colleagues, 25 lashes, Mama. Are you insisting? Are you insisting or not? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u96	Questions concerning the procurator’s credentials are provided for in article 36 of the Criminal Procedure Code. And the Attorney-General is now given such powers that he can cancel decisions for the rest of his life by rightful, unjust investigators and prosecutors. My job is very simple: that he has the right to cancel the decision of the investigators and prosecutors, but to include that in a pretrial investigation. That when the investigation was completed, all investigations were carried out, the investigating and procedural director made decisions that were given 20 days to test criminal conduct, no trial director, including the Attorney General, at the conclusion of the pretrial investigation, should have the right to receive an eternal mechanism for the ongoing investigation of the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u97	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u98	We've already discussed that we can't solve all the problems of the Criminal Procedure Code in a single bill. That is not the purpose of this bill. We set up a working group on the committee, where we determined that by the end of the year we were going to work and submit systemic changes to the project. We understand that the KPC changes cannot be made in terms of grabbing and even in the format that we are now doing in the hall, voting or supporting or not supporting certain amendments. So the system's normal work, we're going to do another bill on your problems that you've asked, which is also relevant to many people, and we're going to make a decision. Thank you. The committee proposes that what does not apply to the concept of the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 25 of Mamka's national deputy. Please identify and vote. [[13:06:02]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 26, Marikowski. Don't insist. Number 27, Savechenko. Don't insist. Will you insist on your work? Thank you. Frys, number 28. Won't you insist? 29th, Mama. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u100	I want to point out and go back to my painful question. I'm very grateful to the committee's work, which is, in fact, working, there's a lively, healthy discussion. But it's still necessary to understand that the Criminal Procedure Code, this is the main purpose of it, it should have served and should have served, it's the competition of the parties. The competition of the parties involves the granting of powers to one party, including the Attorney General, the heads of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office and all others from the law enforcement system, the law enforcement authorities and the granting of the right, the right of the defence party to charge such actions. I insist on my right. Please put to the vote. And I say to the Hall that if the law enforcement body makes its decision, people have no right, they have no right, they have no right, they don't even have the right to complain about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u101	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u102	Discard the amendment. I've already commented on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u103	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 29 of Mamka's National MP. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:57]] For-63 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 30, National MP Yatzenko. Don't insist. 31st, Mama. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u104	I appeal to the Supreme Council for the third time that we have already granted the right to both the Attorney General and the Director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. I'm not asking for such an alien, it's very simple. Let's, when there's authorization, their function should be term. If there are no deadlines, it is not an eternal mechanism. Please insert, put to the vote that they should have such powers, but during the stage of pretrial investigation there should not be an eternal mechanism. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u105	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u106	Reject the given revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u107	Do you insist on voting? Amendment number 31, Mama. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:21]] For-61 The decision is not taken. Thirty-three, Mamka. Thank you. 35th, Makarov. 36th, Yatzenka. Is Yatzenko in the hall? You won't? None. Sphinx, 37th. Don't insist. Thank you. Are you going to insist on any further? Thank you. Does the zimbaluk not insist on his work? Thank you. Mikhailuk, line number 41. Don't insist. Fraud, number 50. Don't insist. 54th Amendment, Ustinova. None. 61st, Osadchuk. 63rd Monastery. 64th, Dunda. 66th, Alekseyev. 67th, Bondar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I think it's an important amendment, because it's about that we're adding this bill to the Criminal Code part that can be arrested for the property of third parties if they're acquired by a person who's committed a crime or suspected of having committed a crime, knew or could have known that property acquired illegally and so on. It's caused by these, you know, legal commissions, that you can essentially take the property of the third person who might actually be there for the first time at the time of the purchase of this property and the last time they saw it, and the investigators will prove that they could have known if they could have guessed whether they should have known that the property was illegally acquired. That is, we suggest that this article be excluded and that this item be excluded, for it really contradicts common sense and will lead to just investigators starting to take on the property of others. Thank you. Please vote, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u109	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u110	Colleagues, this part remained in the text of a valid article, just as we read it again. Take a look at the original KPC and what is proposed. We took down the question of what you just said.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u111	Thank you. Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u112	I knew or should have known this was in the actual article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u113	Please turn on the Bondar microphone. Can you turn on the microphone, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u114	You just changed the word "may have known" to the word "should have known." And "must" how do we figure it out? Thank you. I insist on putting the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u115	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u116	The committee dismissed the number 67 of Bondar's national MP. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:20]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Alekseyev, 72nd. Aren't you going to insist on what you're doing? What's that? What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u117	I'm going to insist on the licenses: 105, 107, 170, 171.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u118	105, 107, 170.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u119	170, 171, 190, 191 and 224. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u120	Thank you. 75th, Savichuk. Don't insist. Demchenka, will you insist on your rights? Spinov, number 98. You won't insist, will you? Lushenko, number 100. Don't insist. Amendment number 105. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, this is the amendment that the committee rejected, but today it has been suggested that it be put to the vote. I give the floor to the head of the committee to explain, Amendment 105.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u121	Colleagues, this is about a few amendments, and I'm going to name them again, and please open them in the tables: 105, 106, 107 and 111. These are the laws of the people’s deputies Dundi, Makarov, Alekseyev, Zinkewich, Potter, Bondar, Lubinz, and others, and Mama. Which determines that the changes in the 219 articles proposed by the bill are in fact, we cancel. So it remains as it is at the moment in the actual edition of the Criminal Procedure Code with clearly established timelines for investigating actual conduct. So I'd like you to support these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, the Dunda People's Deputy has proposed regulation 105. There's an offer to take it into account. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues. Nestor Ivanovich, have you changed the faction? Consultations? I think it's better to vote if you don't mind. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the number 105 of the Dundee People's Deputies. Please support and vote. [[13:16:58]] For 295 Against 0, hold on to 3. Edit 105 counted. Dear colleagues, a similar situation. Rule 106, National Deputy Bondar. You insist, do I understand? And the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u123	Position. The committee's proposal was rejected. But according to the agreement of the hall, I propose that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support and take into account the number 106 of Bondar’s national deputy. Please support and vote. Please support and vote. [[13:17:45]] For 308. Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Edit 106 counted. Amendment 107, Alekseiv National Deputy. He insists. I think you can take the committee right away, yeah, the committee, position. The same position, the request to support and take into account the number 107 of the Alekseiv People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u125	Please support the hall. [[13:18:24]] For 308. Decision taken. Edit included. Dear colleagues, the next line is 111. 109th, Princess. Yeah. Please turn on the Prince's microphone. I thought you just didn't insist, so I passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u126	No, that's another one I insist on. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, my amendment was to establish an opportunity for persons who seem to be being prosecuted to file a complaint with the prosecutor and to close if, within 12 months, the case is not being investigated and, of course, people are being persecuted for some corrupt purpose. If this is not done so that it can be brought to justice, since the Criminal Code provides many opportunities to intimidate a person, search, and investigate, the investigation does not take place, but is idle. Therefore, I suggest that we contact the prosecutor or, if the prosecutor does not respond, press charges and close the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u127	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u128	We agreed to leave this article in its original form. So I suggest you do it first, and then all the other initiatives take a separate look. We're not breaking the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u129	The committee does not support this amendment. I bet. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is 111 of the Mamka People's Deputy. I understand that you insist, and I give the word to the committee then, yes? It's 111.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, this refers to the part where article 219 is left in its original form. So I'd like you to support this number 111.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 111 of Mamka's National MP to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:20:33]] For 315 Decision taken. Edit included. Next line is 112, the Gethmans. Don't insist. Will Marikowski insist on his work? I don't see Marikowski. No, it's not. 120th, Grissom. Don't insist. Thank you. 135th, Grissom. Aren't you going to insist on what you're doing? Thank you. 138th, Lubinets. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! My paper deals with the possibility of examining the investigating judge's concerns about conducting an expert study. I'm not going to read in my paper, as it's written, I just want to hear a comment from the committee's head, why it's been rejected, because I'm looking at, in your editorial, almost as much as I suggested, it's prescribed. But they've even ruled out, they've completely rejected my design. Well, at least they'd write it partially or editorially. And that's the impression that a lot of things were taken, and they said, "refused." If a comment is sufficient, I will not insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u133	First of all, thank you for actively participating in our committee's work. I hope that this will continue. In fact, the position was this: Return the article that was in the previous edition. You had something different. I think we can think of it as an editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u134	Thank you. Don't insist. Thank you. 139th, Princess. What next, which one will you insist on? None. Thank you. Stealth. Is Ustinov in the hall? None. 150th. The stake. 149th Monastery counts. Committee position, Denis Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u135	This amendment applies to and is prescribed for the request of liaison operators, which determined that if we give additional powers and opportunities to listen to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the State Bureau of Investigation, there should be order, clear, legislatively defined order in which it should work, but that is obvious, so the committee has taken this into account. I'm offering to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I am voting for the 149th National MP of Monastirs. Please identify and vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:24:37]] For-27 Edit rejected. Now, a minute. 159th, Mama. Are you insisting? 161th, the Gethmans. 163th. No, Princey's already said everything. Yes. Amendment 168 of the Mamka People's Deputy. I understand that you insist, and the position of the committee would like to hear. 168 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u137	Colleagues, these are changes to article 294 of the Criminal Procedural Code, which also refers to a matter that we have discussed on the basis of actual conduct. Therefore, I suggest that we consider the following: 168, 169, 170, 171 and 172, which apply to article 294. So by agreement with the hall, I propose that we support, consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. If I understand correctly, there's a position to take into account the 168. Do I get it right? Yeah. That's why I'm putting 168 people's deputies to the vote. Please support and vote. [[13:26:51]] For 303 Decision taken. Edit included. Next item is 169. National MP Lashenko, I understand, insists on this. And he just spoke to the Monastery about what it was suggested to take into account. That's why I'm putting the vote to 169 people's deputies, Lashenko, and I'm proposing to take it into account. Please support and vote. [[13:27:30.]] For 305 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Edit 169 counted. Next line is 170. National MP Dunda, I understand, insists. And the chairman of the committee just said that there is an agreed position of the hall to consider this amendment. I'm betting on a vote of 170 people's MP Dundee to take it into account in this bill. Please support and vote. [[13:28:09]] For 306 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Amendment number 171, National Deputy Bondar. The situation is similar to that of taking it into account, please support and vote. I'll bet you a vote of 171. [[13:28:36]] For 304 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Edit included. Next item is 172, People's Deputy Makarov. That's the same position, so I'm voting on the proposal to take into account the ruling of 172 people's deputies, Makarov. Please support and vote. [[13:29:09]] For 307 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Next line is 173, Lubinets. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u139	I don't insist on voting. And as I understand it, almost all the comments I've proposed are voted now in the amendments. For this reason, I thank the committee that we have been able to unite the hall and make changes here in the hall. That's why I don't insist. It's the right thing to do. People have been protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u140	Are you going to insist on what you do next? Thank you. 178, Leschenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 184, Mama. 185, Necluded. 186, Dundee People's Deputy. Denis Anatoliyovich, 186 straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u141	Amendments 186, 187, 188 and 189 refer to the return to KPC of article 295. 1 on the order of continuation of the trial period. So I suggest, as we agreed in the hall, that we support these amendments: 186, 187, 188 and 189. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, from what we have just heard, and since National Deputy Dunda insists on turning 186, and she's supported by the Hall, I'm voting to include Amendment 186 in this bill. Please support and vote. [[13:31:26]] For 302 Against 0, hold on to 2. Decision taken. Edit included. I bet. Amendment 187 of the Bondar People's Deputy. Is that what I'm saying? Is the National MP insisting? The committee doesn't object, the room supports. I'm betting on a vote of 187 people's deputies, Bondar, to be included in this bill. Please support and vote. Mr. Bondar, this is your turn. [[13:32:07]] For-300 Against 0, hold on to 1. Decision taken. Next line is 188 of the Lashenko People's Deputy. Similarly, a national MP insists on what I understand. The committee does not object, and there is a position of support. That's why I'm voting 188 people's deputies, Lashenko, to take it into account in this bill. Please support and vote. [[13:32:46]] For 303 Against 0, hold on to 1. Decision taken. Edit included. Amendment number 189, People's Deputy Moshenc. That's what I understand. He insists. The committee doesn't object, the room supports. I'm voting on the proposal to take into account the order of 189 people's deputies, Moshenc. Please support and vote. Wait. Position, Denis Anatoliyovich, please state position - 189 correct Moshenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u143	Colleagues, since this amendment also suggests a change to 295 primes. 1, however, other articles are covered. And we couldn't literally calculate it in a few minutes. That is why she cannot be supported in this way right now. We leave article 295 prim.1 as it is. But we can't support this because it offers other things that are being excluded. So I'm asking you to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u144	Please tell me, is there a objection? Oh, no? No, it's not. Well, then, dear fellows, I'll bet. A fraud would insist on voting? No, it doesn't. Thank you. Rule 190, Dunda. Do you want to play Alexiev? Oh, no? 190th, but there's still Mama. There's no first. Dundy. Let's move on, if you don't mind. A word? Well, Mama's standing up, colleagues. Then I'll give you the order in which the proposals are coming. Excuse me. If that's the case. Let's just keep going, okay? Are you insisting? Are you insisting? Okay. Edit 190, Mamka People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is only one rule that allows a party to file a complaint before a court and a court to accept a complaint. We're asking questions about suspicion. The defendant’s accusation is suspected of committing and bringing her to trial. One committee member, from the Supreme Council of Deputies, tells us that this is a delay in the process. I want to say the simplest thing is that when you take statistics, there's officially no court in a year to call off any suspicion of criminal conduct. I think we should leave the right to dismiss the suspicion to the court. Therefore, I point out that this will be a party to the process of law but not a duty. If there are no 303 of this norm, then the party to the trial can't charge her. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u146	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u147	The correction is proposed to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u148	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote to 190 people's MP Dundee. The committee won't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:31]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Edit 191, Bondar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, I insist that we take this amendment into account. Because, in fact, it allows a person who is informed of the suspect to appeal to the court about the charges against him of being sued. Otherwise, a person is left alone with an investigation, unable to go anywhere, and the investigator has the opportunity not to write out the normal motivation that he is presented with, not to look for evidence in the right way, for he knows that no judge will test him. And when the defendant has the opportunity to go to court and charge this suspicion, even the investigator will start to prepare in a different way for the delivery of this suspicion, he will really start looking for normal evidence, rather than inventing a suspicion simply to put the stake in the process. So we insist that this correction be taken into account. And please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u150	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u151	You and I have already set up, more specifically, a judicial review and a continuation of the pretrial investigation periods after the suspicion has been announced. We set it up, 6 and 12 months, it stays. Plus, when choosing precautionary measures, the court always checks the reasonableness of the suspicion. Therefore, there is no basis for the accusation in this case. The committee's proposing a rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Mr. Minust's word, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u153	Feels me, doesn't it? Good afternoon. The position of the Ministry of Justice is also one that can't be accused of suspicion, because there are a lot of manipulations, and this is also an opportunity, we can't limit it, and the court. is not a subject for judicial review when a report of suspicion can be cancelled. And that's why it's a way of blocking the investigation. And we don't think we can support this amendment of the national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u154	Thank you. No, colleagues. There was a man who was the author. I'm not going to give to anyone who's there. I'm sorry, this is not provided for by the Rules, your honors. Victor Vasilovich, are you insisting on your right? The motive is Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. I'm, frankly, surprised by the comment by the representative of the Ministry of Justice, because statistics speak and testify to the opposite. As long as this rule has emerged in the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, as far as we know, there is only one decision of the court to which the suspicion has been overturned. And to say that the parties and the procedural ones, respectively, who have procedural status, abuse their right, it's simply to mislead the session hall. This is a norm, but not all use it because they may feel that the suspects they are given are reasonable. But such a mechanism should be, since it appeared in Ukrainian legislation on the recommendation of the European Union. This is the norm in all countries of the European Union, and all the countries of the Council of Europe that have ratified the Statute of the Council of Europe have undertaken to establish it in their legislation. Now it would be unfair to refuse it only on the basis of some incomprehensible comment that is not supported by facts. Let's leave her alone, there's no reason to think she's being abused.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u156	Colleagues, I'm not going to call a recess if you don't mind, but I'm asking you to come up here with the heads of factions and committee staff to talk about this amendment. I'm not going to advertise, okay? Stay put, I'm not calling it a break. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us return to our consideration of the matter. Just in case, I'll resume our session immediately for 15 minutes so that we can pass this law. Dear colleagues, we return to the review of the 191 National Deputy Bondar. Committee, please. Denis Anatolyevich, please, your position. National deputies, please take your seats. Edit 191 was rejected, we're now listening to the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u157	Colleagues, the position of the committee was. This is about, let's say specifically, the issue of the complaint of a suspect report. At this point in time, Lozov’s ruling has been reported to 222,000 777 people, 42 of them. Well, a lot of accused suspects, 42 canceled reports of suspicion. So this institution doesn't work. But we've talked about leaving this institution, complaining about suspicion, but I want to say that by supporting this amendment, we have to leave the technical and legal drafting of the bill to ensure that all the other amendments that apply to this topic don't conflict with each other either. So they're ready to support, but they have to do technical legal work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u158	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, we have just spoken, and there is a position that is supported, if I'm not mistaken, by all the factions, the political groups that are in the hall, and this is important for the adoption of the law. So there's a suggestion to take the bill into account, if I understand the hall correctly, to take into account the number of 191 of Bondar's national deputy. The committee does not object, and if I understand correctly, the representatives of Minsk do not have a clear contradiction. That's why I'm putting to the vote the question of taking into account the order of 191 people's deputies of Bondar. Please support and vote. [[13:54:26]] For 310 So that we can always vote like this: 310 to go, 0 to go, 0 to go, 2 to go. The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Next line 192, Princely. Don't you insist? Thank you. 198, Mama. If you don't mind, Gregory Mikolayovich, come on. The last one, yes, is yours, which you are. 198 law. Do you mind? What's that? Turn on Mommy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u159	199.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u160	199th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u161	I'm sorry for the intrusiveness, but if we're already going to ask questions about the enlargement, the extension, the retention of rights for the 303rd party to go to court, we've got a little bit of a misperforming practice of law enforcement right now. Whether criminal conduct, which was closed five years ago, is abolished by the Attorney General or by a deputy, without having the authority of a judicial investigation, and by persons whose decisions have been annulled by facts or persons, there is also no right to appeal to the court and to press charges. Please support the proceedings as follows: The decision of the Attorney General or the person who replaces may be charged with cancelling the decision to close criminal conduct on the grounds provided for in article 284. What does that mean? If it's the Attorney General's decision. Can I have 10 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u162	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u163	If the decision was thus taken five years or four later, the individual would also be entitled to appeal to the court and use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u164	Okay. About the 199, Denis Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u165	Let us, however, limit ourselves to what we have agreed on and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, I understand that the appeal is not supported, right, by the committee? Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 199 people's MP Mama. Please identify and vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:57:11]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that we are going to have to go through some other regulations in connection with what we accepted and counted 191. I understand correctly, Denise Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u167	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u168	Okay. Then the next line is 202, Bondar. 203, Bogdan. Sorry, 203 is the Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u169	Let me comment. Dear colleagues, given that we have decided to leave the complaint to the suspect report, this is what I have told you that we will have to reconcile several rights, especially in this 203 plan, my amendment was considered by the committee, but because we have decided to leave the complaint to the suspect, I'm putting it on the stand so that we don't support it. They didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the author of the amendment suggests that it should not be taken into account. She's been counted, we're putting her on confirmation right now, and the author doesn't insist on taking her into account. That's why I'm putting number 203 on confirmation, but I'm asking you to identify and vote. [[13:58:50]] For-13. Edit rejected. Amendment number 204, Bogdanian. Denis Anatolyovich. People's deputy Bogdanec. He insists. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u171	In view of the fact that we chose and again supported the idea of leaving the complaint of suspicion, we also need to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly, it is necessary to support and vote on the bill of 204 People's Deputies of the Bogdanian in order to make the law more quality and effective. Please support and vote in favour of the 204 People's Deputy of Bogdan. [[13:59:53]] For 311 Amendment 204, People’s Deputy of Bogdanec is counted. For -311, versus -0, hold on to -1. Next edition of the People's Deputy Vlasenko, 205.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u173	Similarly, colleagues, licenses 205 and 213 should be supported in connection with such a decision. Please support the 205.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, there's an offer because we've taken into account number 191, to support the approval of National MP Vlasenko under number 205. That's why I'm voting number 205. Please support and vote for it. [[14:00:55]] For 318 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Amendment No. 206, People's Deputies Ljashenko. Don't insist. Edit number 207, Fraud. Don't insist. Amendment number 208, Mamka. But you don't insist anymore, do you? What's the next step? Alexander Bakumov. Amendment number 213, People's Deputy Dundee. He insists. And, yes, I see you insist. And, Dennis Anatolyovich, you have a word as the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u175	As the subject of the complaint continues, this amendment needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, since, if I understand correctly, we supported 151, we need to support and incorporate 213 of the laws of the Dundee People's Deputies. Please support and vote for consideration. For accounting for 213. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[2:02:31]] For 316 Against 0, hold on to 0. Decision taken. Amendment 213 counted. Line 214, Bondar. Is he insisting? You don't insist, do you? Thank you. Next up, Alexander. No. 16, Bogdanec. Don't insist. Demchenko doesn't insist on his work, does he? Osadchuk, line 239. Don't insist. Thank you. Does the peacock insist on his work? Jurchishin? Yes, number 266, the National MP of Bakumov. I give the floor to the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u177	Colleagues, in view of the fact that you and I have decided to leave the text of article 219 of the "On Trial Periods" we have also amended the Criminal Offences Act so-called. But given that these rules do not change in a few months, we now have to cancel, delete paragraph 6 of the bill, which reads: "Subparagraphs 2, 21, 22, 24 of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Simplification of the Trial Investigation of Certain Categories to Exclude." We have to vote this out of the vote and then move on to 266.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u178	Thank you. So there's a proposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u179	Delete paragraph 6 of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u180	Now we're looking at a total of 266 people's deputies. Under the transcript, vote and support the position that has just been sounded by the head of the committee. Dear colleagues, under the transcript, I ask you to consider the above wording in the bill. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u181	I'd like your support, colleagues. [[14:06:15]] For 305
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u182	For -305, versus -0, held -4. Decision taken. Next number 266, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u183	In this regard, we need to reject amendment 266. I therefore propose that the amendment of 266 people’s deputies, Bakumov, be approved and rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, there's a license of 266, it's been counted, but since we've made a decision on some other rights to include them in the bill, there's a suggestion that we don't take it into account right now. That's why I'm putting her on the stand. Please identify and vote. Amendment No. 266. [[14:07:12]] For -14 Edit rejected. Edit rejected. 266. Next issue is the 273 People's Deputy of Monastirs. It's rejected. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u185	274, please. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 274.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u186	Look, we have a 274, it was taken into account with the editorial details of the Monastery National MP. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u187	I made a comment. It's about that. This is "Transitional Positions." Because there we are with you, in the text that was proposed by the committee, there are different periods of validity for positions, for example, after the 219th article was changed, about times of actual conduct, so we have to reject this right over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u188	So the number 274 instigator thinks. puts it on confirmation and thinks it should be rejected. Do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u189	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-04-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I am voting for the confirmation of the ruling of the 274 People's Deputies of Monastirski. Please identify and vote. [[14:09:01]] For -14 Next. Thank you. 14 for, versus -17 for, 265. Edit rejected. Dear colleagues, welcome. We've been through everything. And I propose to go to the vote for the bill. Honorable Colleagues — Is There a Need for a Motive? Let's vote, we're out, we're out. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the issue of re-admission in second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve specific provisions of criminal law (registration No. 1009). Please support and vote. [[14:10:14]] For 330. Against 0, hold on to 2. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 234, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 11, "European Solidarity" – 20, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 16, "Voice" – 15, "non-fractional" – 21. I thank everyone for their effective work. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're going to have a program of government action. Thank you.
