ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u1	Let's welcome 269 schools, the Vosius region, Teremka. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, I remind you, registration takes place by pressing the "for" button, the green button, or the left one, as comfortable as possible. Please register. [[16:08:53]] There are 323 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, there was a meeting of the Education Committee. The word is given to Sergey Valeriovich. The committee, Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, we propose to start an evening news meeting, the same ones from which we started the morning session, the tragedy that is close to us all, especially to us as educators, especially to me as Odessa and my fellow Odessa deputies. In the current situation, there is virtually no change; we now know that one person is dead. The fate of 14 others remains unknown, but the rescue workers have already reached the premises where the fire took place. During the break, the committee held an urgent meeting, and on some of the thesis, I would like to focus our attention. First of all, we demand -- and I'm sure it's not just the position of the committee, but the position of this whole room -- a full and fully reliable investigation of what's been going on: the activities, but actually the inactions of those responsible for fire safety. How did it happen that this facility had been granted a school permit for years when electronic wires were replaced in 1966 for the last time? How is it that the country is being set on fire by all kinds of institutions? Only in the Odessa area: fire in Victoria – 3 human lives, fire in Tokyo Star – 6 human lives, fire in a psychiatric hospital – 3 human lives and a fire in college. It seems to me, especially given that it's all institutions of various forms of subordination, it's not the fault of someone else's own, it's the diagnosis of the entire fire safety system in our country. We demand full measures at the state level as to what this system needs to be reviewed. We need to be aware of the fact that if we leave this alone, we will leave the principals of those schools alone with millions of debts to fire safety. We're going to say thank you to the firemen who save our children's lives, but we're going to swear by the firemen who check these facilities and draw these million debts. We have to do everything we can to have our children. And we let our children go to kindergartens, to schools, to colleges with a clean heart, and they were educated there, not minutes of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services and other laws (as regards compliance with the requirements of the Constitution) (registration numbers 2490, 2490-1). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:13:06]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Kucherenko Aleksija Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u5	Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, you have just voted in favour of a reduced procedure to consider the dual issue that directly relates to the tragedy in Odessa, just as we are with you. The moment of silence was which directly relates to both yours and our duties in the districts when we come with you and answer people for what happens to tariffs. Well, that's, uh, that's a huge mistake for me. And I'm paying your attention, Mr. Head, because it's about creating an organ that has to regulate the electricity market, gas, heat supply, water supply of 400 billion dollars. You probably don't know, dear friends, that according to the Constitutional Court's ruling on the solicitation of a group of deputies headed by Timoshenko, a valid national commission was declared unconstitutional and it ends its cadence on January 1st of this year. And then the question is, what do we do next? I would like you, honourable deputies, to see this bill submitted. I'm not talking about GNEU's remarks anymore. Look, no agreement with the committee, with the Committee on European Integration, with the Committee on Economics, with the other committees. How can such bills be put into the hall? Now I'm explaining my logic. When I realized that the chiefs and deputies of our committee weren't going to submit this bill at the right time, I prepared my own one that was ready, and I registered it very quickly. Because I realized that everything is done artificially in order to delay consideration of the creation of this independent regulator, and then in a fire-fighting, turbo-reactive mode try to extend its version of the law. Note: Focus on what you are offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u6	Ten seconds, please. Guys, let's do it this way. In 10 seconds, of course, because there was no discussion, I can't tell you what's going on right now. Now it'll be like an alternate Mr. Herus to represent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u7	Dear colleagues. Alexi Yuriovich, I apologize. Thank you. Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, head of the Committee on Energy and Housing Services. You're an alternate author? And you're from the committee? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of constitutional principles in the field of energy and utilities (registration number 2490-1). The bill is designed to bring Ukraine into conformity with the requirements of the Constitution on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 13 June 2019 on the unconstitutionality of certain provisions of the Ukrainian law on NCRECR. The Constitutional Court’s decision was adopted on June 13, is final and is not admissible. So this issue needs to be settled by a new law at the legislative level. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was given time until December 31, 2019 to settle this issue, otherwise the regulator will be deprived of the ability to make decisions on any issues that relate to competence that will lead to a collapse in energy and utilities markets. Now for the committee's decision. At the meeting of the committee on November 29, 2019, the draft laws of 2490 and 2490-1 members of the committee supported 2490-1, taking into account an additional proposal to clarify some of the provisions of the bill and its Final Regulations, as outlined in the Committee’s decision. In view of what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council bill 2490-1 on the basis of the first reading to be adopted on the basis of the proposal put forward by the committee. I would also like to report that there have been consultations on this bill with the Energy Community. And the Energy Community has made a positive comment on this bill, which does not conflict with European rules. This is the version of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u9	All right, Andrew Mikhailovich? Yeah? Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two against, from factions. Mealer Victor Nichiporovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u10	I'm handing over Batenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u11	Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u12	Dear friends, we know that we have repeatedly criticized the National Council for Regulatory Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the regulator, because in fact the law has had an excessive influence on this commission by the President of Ukraine. And thank God that we can now bring the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine into this order. So in this situation, we support the bill, which was presented by the national MP, Andriy Herus, who is actually depriving the President of Ukraine of his powerless influence over the national regulator. We realize that since January 1, 2020, we may actually have a collapse with a national regulator. That is why this bill must be adopted. We support these changes, which are contained in it, which concern the early release of the governor's head, the correspondingization of a number of articles to the law regarding the impact of the Cabinet of Ministers on salaries, which are reduced by two times for members of the regulator. So our proposal is to rework it for the second reading and today accept it in the first reading. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" will support the Bill of Andrew Gerus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u13	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u14	All of a sudden, please pass on the word to Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u15	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u16	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, I will now try to continue and explain to you the danger of this bill. First. The main scientific and expert management is absolutely logical to note that if we're with you. And the decision of the Constitutional Court stipulates that it should be the central executive body with special status, and the question is, what are we, if you'll excuse me, lysing in the authority of the government? Why can't the government create and respond fully, I emphasize, for the tariff policy, and we're making proposals on how to work it? This is one of the basic observations that is completely disregarded by the author of another alternative bill. Now let's move on. Dear friends, note how it is proposed to form a competitive commission to select future members of the National Commission. Three candidates from the Energy Committee and the JRC, one candidate from the Ministry of Energy, the other from the Ministry of Community Development. I have a question. And we don't understand, dear friends, who in these three candidatures will the committee be offered? Don't you understand that there is a manual attempt to create a steering apparatus for the future commission in order for the government to then formally respond and actually operate from other offices? That's what I see. And if we're still going to work with you, I think that the formation of a competition commission should take place from the entire Supreme Council and take into account everyone's interests without excluding the members of the Supreme Council. We will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u17	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u18	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The issue of the National Commission on Electricity and Utilities is certainly important, which today determines in many ways the fate and life of the entire country and citizens of Ukraine, since it affects tariff policies in certain forms of municipal services. In general, I would like to look at the history of this issue and say that over the last six years we have had a 9.5-fold price for gas for the population, a 13.5-fold tariff for heating, hot and cold water supply, 5.5-fold. These are the tariffs that the citizens of Ukraine have laid on their shoulders today. Of course, not all these issues are within the competence of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Electricity and Utilities Market. However, this question is of great importance. And that's why there's a positive norm that works. where it is the committee that will influence the next steps and the formation of the competition committee, what was proposed on the committee. Yet, in our view, there are some warnings. And already, in part, the previous speaker spoke for them. Anything relating to direct business and financial payments and so on, and the limitation of the duration of the stay in the NCRECR. So the faction of the Opposition Platform for Life isn't going to support it on the first reading, and it's going to suggest that we work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u19	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u20	Thank you. My fellow Members, I would like to start by saying that not one of the bills does not address the issue of the independence of the NCREKP. The laws propose to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 31 December 2019 with the establishment of a central executive body with a special status: the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services. In this regard, it should be noted that State bodies in special status are bodies whose establishment is directly or indirectly provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, which are not formally assigned to any branch of a single State authority. At the same time, the special status of such bodies should be subject to the specific tasks that they should carry out within the limits of the powers laid down by the law of Ukraine, irrespective of other authorities of the State. First of all, the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85, provides the legal preconditions for the creation of such State bodies. In doing so, the Constitution of Ukraine does not, as is known, provide for the existence in the State machinery, the apparatus of other state bodies with special status, including in the field of executive power, for which a positive proposal cannot be assessed to complement the composition of central executive bodies with a special status regulator as defined in article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities. Then there is reason to believe that the creation of such bodies should be decided by the legal acts of the government and cannot be subject to legislative regulation. The legislative obligation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to create a regulator is, in fact, an intervention in the constitutional authority of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u21	The motive is Gerus Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u22	Mr. Chairman, given that we have such a pressing problem in order to settle this issue in law by 1 January, I would also ask you to put to the vote a reduction in the deadlines for preparation for the second reading by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u23	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry about the faction of one man with motive. No, sorry about the factions: two for, two against. Those who didn't sign up for motive factions. From the moment of the Deputy Minister. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u24	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Honourable People’s Deputies, Honorary Presidencies, Minenergo proposes to support Bill 2490-1, which was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the national deputy, Herus Andri. The adoption of the bill will ensure that the provisions of the National Commission Act, which have been declared unconstitutional, comply with the Constitution of Ukraine. And the main thing is that we have very little time, and it's supported, in principle, in the first reading to accept, to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, let's proceed to the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Committee's proposals for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Commission for National Regulation in the Field of Energy and Utilities and other laws (referring to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine) (registration No. 2490-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:28:41]] For 262 Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (register No. 2490-1). Please support and vote. [[16:29:17]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts) (registration No. 2189). It's a second reading. Request not to disperse, very few rights here. The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of the city of Bezgin Vitali Juriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u26	Good day, fellow Members, the 2189 bill is actually the first decentralization package bill our Supreme Council has to adopt in general, and I hope that we will do so today. In itself, it foresees only two basic things: first, focus directly on the forward-looking plans, that is, on the ability of our communities. And the second is to simplify the process of adopting forward-looking plans, i.e. cleaning up the district council process. To our conviction and to the conviction of the Ministry of Profiles, in the previous period of reform, those district councils that have demonstrated their effectiveness have already made their contribution to reform, and those who have openly sabotaged the process can no longer help us. Thus, according to a commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization considered, at its meeting on December 4, 2019, observations and proposals from the right-holders of the legislative initiative to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities, issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading on the basis of November 12, 2019. For a second reading of the bill from seven Ukrainian national deputies, 13 suggestions were made to reject it. The Committee's general discussion concluded: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the voluntary integration of territorial communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea) (number 2089), as a result of the second reading, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. The final draft of the bill has been prepared with the comments of the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority. Please be supportive. And I suggest we move on to the right-hand side, if that's what you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u27	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. No. 1, Labunsky. There is no Angela Victorian. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich, number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u28	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter, Colleagues! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. It really needs a law, and it's a very interesting name: the introduction of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Integration of Territorial Communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of communities, Crimea and districts). Dear reporter, it is sad that none of all the amendments are taken into account. And in general, most of them applied that the district councils, the district councils that represent the communities under the current legislation, would be thrown out of this process. And it's all about those who want to unite, where it's not indicated, how many of the people in general, and the district governments, which are, by the way, 90 percent district governments that are not formed, are also district governments. It's right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u29	Ten seconds. No, you don't? Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 2 of the national MP, Zimbaluk, it wasn't counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:34:00]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Mikhailovich, please tell me, will you not insist on everyone's work? Two minutes? Amendment 3, Cimbaluca. Two minutes, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u30	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I address, first of all, the head of the committee and the authors. You can't go into history like that. which contradicts the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Because the fundamental principle is that the local authorities act on behalf of the people, from the citizens who choose them. This bill does not simplify, and it even eliminates local self - government. We understand very well that the current authorities believe that those district councils that have been elected by the citizens of Ukraine in the elections of the local councils five years ago do not reflect the political map for today, but according to current legislation, they are now taking on enormous tasks: the formation of local budgets, the income-retirement part, the financing of local health institutions, preschools, schools and generally the entire culture. And when we say that in the process of decentralization power is transferred to places, it's this bill that eliminates the principle of decentralization, and vice versa that centralizes the vertical in one hand. So today, in the office of the President’s administration, there will be an opportunity to form what is called a forward-looking plan for the unification of the territorial communities. Then give it to them. A more faithful obligation to keep all things to themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u31	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u32	The committee's position is to reject. And I would also ask my colleague not to manipulate a bit. This bill doesn't eliminate any of the organs, so in every area, there's a public discussion of the perspective plans, so the thing about what's being drawn in the President's office is at least not valid. Thank you. The position is to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u33	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go. You don't insist, Michael Mikhailovich, do you? Dear colleagues, if you'd like to invite the national MPs, we don't have much left. Princey. Amendment number seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u34	Thank you. That's exactly what my colleague Tsimbaluk was talking about. My amendment proposes to exclude the law, according to which a forward-looking plan for the formation of community territories does not require approval by the relevant district council. Instead, such plans are made by ODA and are approved by the government. First of all, it completely cancels the so-called principle of volunteering. Moreover, the question of unifying territorial communities is a matter of local self-government, and this is mentioned in article 2 of the Law on Local Self-Government, and therefore it should be decided by local governments rather than by district government administrations, as proposed in the bill. And the Chief Expert Office also referred, among other things, to the ratified European Charter of Local Self-Government of the Supreme Council. It's not just our MP's opinion, it's GNEU's opinion too. Therefore, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u35	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote number 7 of the People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:38:35]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Eight lashes, Batenko. Don't insist. 9th, Goncharenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, it's a very important law that we're once again attacking the local self-government institutions. We exclude district councils from the most important issue that is, the development of a forward-looking territorial plan. This actually means that such an organ that's chosen by communities throughout the area, it's just being excluded from it. I'm asking you to support my work. This will allow the district councils to return, allowing us to bring local self-government back into this process. By the way, you and I are going to celebrate the day of local self-government tomorrow and we're going to talk again about how we love local self-government, but these are all words. Here's the reality: we take the authority from them. I ask you to reconsider until it's too late to give a real gift to local self-government, to show respect for them and to put the district councils back into this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u37	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote number 10 of the People's Deputies of Honcharenko. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:40:19]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 10, Kulinich. Don't insist. Last update, 12th, Minko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm sorry. When you look at it in the second. This is not the first reading, colleagues. No, no, no, no, no. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations of the draft Law amending the Law on the Voluntary Association of Territorial Communities (to simplify the procedure for the approval of the forward-looking plans for the formation of the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the areas) (registration No. 2189). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:42:08]] For 277 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Out of procedure, Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u38	Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter. Colleagues, the next bill we have is Bill 2260, but since they're just handing out the text in this bill room right now, I think we should be able to give the MPs the final version of the comparative table they're giving us right now. So I would like to postpone the consideration of this bill, for example after Bill 2335, and I will thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u39	Prince Ruslan of the procedure, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u40	Thank you, Mr. Head. Indeed, the procedure. And we still have this notion that we recently introduced -- this is, remember, electronic documenting? So this table appeared on the site 15 minutes before the meeting. And it's not possible to process 300 rights physically. I've got a couple dozen rights there. I just don't understand these changes right now. If we look at it in an hour or two, it doesn't change the situation. It's just better to put it on another session day and then look at it in a faster mode than we're going to have to look at all 300 right now. Because in every direction, you're going to have to figure out what position to comment on. Identify yourself, but we recommend not to consider this bill today, because it will take up a very large amount of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u41	What other suggestions will there be? KORNIENKO Aleksandar Sergiyovich, of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u42	There's an offer to support the Schrum proposal. Move places easy, give them time to read the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u43	It's a slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u44	The Voice faction also points out that once we have the table, it is impossible to get to know it in such a short time for other deputies who are interested. That is why there is also an offer to carry on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, we'll take it to tomorrow morning. Okay. Voting is necessary for change, isn't it? Let's move on. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on recognition. identification of a person without citizenship (registration number 2335). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:45:42.]] For 245 Decision taken. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, the Luhansk Region, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the national minorities, and the international relations of Lubinz Dmitr Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u46	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, good afternoon! Bill 2335 is being considered. As soon as possible, I will take the position of a committee that unanimously supported the adoption of this bill. The point is that there are no citizens in Ukraine. Such individuals are estimated by international law - enforcement organizations to be between 40,000 and 80,000. They have lived without any papers for years and have no legal right, no procedure can give them a certificate of noncitizens. That's why we're introducing the term "apatride." According to the convention, which was adopted back in the 54th year, and the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness, and according to Ukraine's international obligations, it has to regulate and improve the state of stateless persons. It is predicted that the term "person without citizenship" will be introduced, which will be consistent with the term "apatride", defined by the Convention on Stateless Persons. It is predicted that a person who claims to be a stateless person is entitled to appeal, regardless of the legality or illegality of his or her stay in Ukraine. Persons who have been recognized as without citizenship in the order established by this law and who have received a residence permit will be considered to have legally resided in Ukraine for a period prior to obtaining a residence permit or obtaining a Ukrainian citizenship. The new article 6 p.m. 1 proposes to define the procedure for the recognition of a person without citizenship. We are also making changes to a number of other Ukrainian laws: immigration; free legal aid; judicial assembly; the only national demographic register and documents that confirm Ukrainian citizenship bear witness to a person or his or her special status; enforcement; employment of the population; and the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. They provide, inter alia, for persons who have applied for recognition of a person without citizenship, the right to free secondary legal aid, the right to release them from the payment of a court fee in cases involving a person without citizenship. It's a major science-expert facility. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very often addressing you from this rostrum, and I suggest you all, if you don't have time to read the bill, take a look at the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thus, the GNEU of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion to the bill, has made a number of comments and suggestions and believes that the draft result of the first reading can be accepted as a basis. So I suggest that all my colleagues vote and support. Similarly, we have received an official letter from the National Migration Service of Ukraine, where all of us, the National Deputies, of Ukraine, are asked to vote and adopt this law as quickly as possible. Similarly, the head of the DMS stresses that for years he has been turning to the national deputies and that somehow the Supreme Council has not passed this awesome law. It's small, it's technical, but it solves the issue of 80,000 of our citizens. So I ask you to vote and support, and I urge you to unite the entire room. And so we propose that we shorten the deadline for preparation for second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u47	Thank you. Please register: two in, two in, two in factions. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Alona Ivanovna's starch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u48	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues, first of all, I want to thank really all the factions and the co-authors of the bill and the profiling committee for the fact that this bill finally appeared in the Supreme Council. You know, before I started working as a national deputy five years ago, I also had the honour of working with UNHCR on issues of displaced persons, displaced persons and stateless persons. And then, even though this problem stood before Ukraine as sharp as it is today, there was no real chance that this bill would be supported by the Supreme Council or even considered. In fact, what a person is without citizenship and why it is a problem for us as a state. This is a person who is not considered a citizen of any State under its legislation. There are more than 10 million people in the world. They have no right to defend themselves, they cannot receive any services from any country in the world, they very often cannot even have the right to witness about death, birth, or anything else. And a third of them are just kids. In Ukraine the problem became much greater after the Donbas war. I mean, to make you understand, according to the latest data, this was a population census back in 2001, we had over 80,000 of these people. Today we don't know exactly how many of these people, but under the enormous risk of losing citizenship and not getting any citizenship of any country, there are people born today in the uncontrollable territory of Lugansk, Donetsk region, where Russia actually controls, but they don't get these passports. Such children, born today in the territory of the uncontrollable government of Ukraine, are more than 50,000. Therefore, by joining the Convention on the Elimination of Stateless Cases in 2013, we made a commitment to help them. They are actually our citizens, and they have the right to the citizenship of the country where they were born, live, and continue to live, and work. In fact, every child has the right to citizenship. And I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u49	Tetjana Mikhaylovna's crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u50	Please pass the word to the Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u51	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u52	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill in the first reading. Because, indeed, this issue has not been resolved for a long time, and it needs to be brought to the legislative base of Ukraine. But I want to draw your attention right now to the fact that, in principle, there have been people in our country who have been in our country for the past six years, you might say, compared them to people without citizenship. They're settlers, they're people who live in temporarily uncontrollable territories. Because if a person does not have help today, he is hardly a citizen of Ukraine. He does not have the right to participate in the local elections today, even with the help of a displaced person. He won't get any social assistance today if he doesn't have the help of a mover. And if, in any case, he's having an electronic pension malfunction, then he's still out of retirement. We also know that more than 70 billion dollars have accumulated debt to pensioners living in a temporarily uncontrollable territory. That's why I'm addressing you, Your Honor, Mr. Speaker. Yesterday, thanks to the members of the Committee on Social Policy, Bill 2083-D was supported. and recommended to Parliament to consider it in the first reading. We ask you very much, we do not have much time left for Parliament until the new year, let us consider this bill, which has united the authors of almost all the factions of Parliament, which is fully supported by the international community. And this bill will address today the issue that all citizens of Ukraine who live anywhere in a controlled territory in an uncontrollable territory may have the right to receive their well-earned pension. This will be the best gift for all citizens of Ukraine before the New Year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u53	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u54	Please give the word to Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u55	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Sofia. Dear Mr. Head, in fact we have, I can't say that we have these legal relations in any way not settled, it would be unfair. We have the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. And this bill is an attempt at new definitions, new perspectives to adapt it accordingly to those international legal instruments that have already become part of Ukrainian legislation, and there is a great benefit in that. We tried to do it in the past, because this bill largely reproduces that bill that was in the past, but unfortunately it didn't reach the hand, it wasn't adopted. Now, I think we have a good, unique chance to accept it right now at least as a basis for continuing to work on it. Why should we work on it? The point is that it changes not only this law, which I have mentioned, but in a number of other legislative acts: this is the Code of Administrative Offences, this is the Law on Free Legal Assistance, the Law on the Judicial Assembly, the Law on Enforcement and a number of other laws that are subject to the disclosure of another committee, the Committee on Legal Policy. So it would be very good, dear colleagues, for us to continue, if we were to make complex changes now to those legislative acts and any committee that doesn't belong in our area of responsibility, we would at least consult with experts and with deputies from the professional committees. So, for our part, I think that on our committee we're going to be preparing those amendments that are worth making, because certain things are now regulated in legislation. Others settled. And these standards that are being proposed here distort the norms, the definitions that we literally adopted two weeks ago in this room. So we are going to vote, of course, for this bill to be adopted on the basis of a second reading, so that all changes to other laws that are already in Ukraine are made on the basis of what they have to do with those approaches that are already in Ukraine. Because, sadly, the judicial congregation is mentioned again only then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u57	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u58	When it needs to be eliminated, we recently passed Law 1209, which effectively reduced it by half, now we are trying again by this law to reduce the revenue from the judicial congregation. It's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u59	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Then we go to the vote. Is there no motive? Yes, Shahov. Everything? Prepare for the vote, invite the national MPs. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u60	Dear friends, dear colleagues! The important work of our profile committee led by our colleague, National Deputy Peter Lubinz. We're actually the last country in Europe where we have so many stateless people who are not protected by law. As it has been pointed out, if there are more than 12 million people in the world, according to the UN, there were more than 35,000 citizens in Ukraine who had undetermined citizenship status, according to the same UN recognition in 14 years. We understand that Ukraine, as part of the former Soviet Union, inherited this status without the citizenship of former citizens who are now in Ukraine, when, in fact, not all people were able or wanted to change their Soviet passport to a new Ukrainian, or because of various hot spots when they were forced to move to Ukraine from other hot spots of the Soviet Union. This is particularly true of the Crimean Tatars or, for example, the Roma who historically resided in the territory of Ukraine and other representatives of the nationalities who had documents of unrecognized nations, such as the Transnistrian Republic. All these categories of citizens we have to protect today. Friends, especially in the context that we are in the Supreme Council of Ukraine this week looking after the protection of human rights, because on December 10 we are celebrating the Universal Day of Human Rights, and this law is more timely than ever before presented to us in the session room today. Therefore, I believe that this bill will create a procedure for the recognition of a stateless person and in the future will allow for all the possibilities that it can use as Ukrainian citizens in the territory6 of a temporary residence permit, a stateless person's permit to go abroad and so on. So let's accept it today in the first reading, do the best we can in the second reading. Our group is voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u61	Thank you. Shahov's motive. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall who have left. Turn on the chess microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u62	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, listen, 80,000 people are flying in the air today, nowhere marked, no passports, no citizenship today. This law is very important, and we will support this bill. But there is one other important thing. Secondly, it's 1 million 700,000 displaced people who are now secondary. And when it comes to elections, they're all put off for a reason. I'm not just saying, because we're both the Great One, and Sukhov and Shahov are the settlers, and we know how they treat us. So let us point out: Allow the election to be held by displaced persons from Lugansk, Donetsk, and Crimea. Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is up, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of a person without citizenship (Registration No. 2335). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:01:57]] For 361 Against 0, hold on to 0. Dear colleagues, a proposal came from the chairman of the committee to shorten the preparation period to the second reading. I'll bet you a vote. No, in general, there is no such decision by the committee, unfortunately. All of it? [[B in m in s a l in]] There is no such decision, colleagues. No, it's not. The committee head just wants to cut it down. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 2335. Please support and vote. [[17:03:07]] For 326 Decision taken. I don’t remember such unanimity in the short term if I’m honest. Thank you. Let's move on. The following question is proposed to the National Deputies for consideration: draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (to ensure the rights of military and naval personnel and the Ukrainian Armed Forces to become a participant in hostilities). It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. [[17:03:58]] For 260 Decision taken. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u64	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we have the sixth year of the hybrid war of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, and this hybrid war takes and takes completely different forms, and those forms that we are not always ready to predict. And so those laws that now regulate the granting of martial law to our defenders could not take into account all the nuances of the Russian Federation's actions and could not account for the fact that on 25 November 2017 the Russian Federation so shamefully attacked our warships, and accordingly our military personnel would be in the status of military prisoners in the territory of the Russian Federation. I'm sure you'll all agree that those who took part in combat on ships, on aircraft, deserve to be given that status. This bill is about how to grant such status to those military personnel who have been and have participated directly in fighting on aircraft or water vessels of our own. So I ask everyone to support this bill, and I ask the Hall to honor our defenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u65	The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u66	At its meeting on November 4, the committee considered the bill. The bill proposes to refer to members of the combat crews of ships, boats, aircraft and helicopters, other persons who, while on board ships, boats, aircraft, helicopters of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian State Border Service and the National Guard, protected Ukraine's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Today, according to the findings of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Command, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, according to the law, can additionally appoint 19 military personnel who were on board small armed artillery boats called "Brdjansk", "Nicopol" and "Jani Kapu" and six military personnel on board the aircraft "AN-26" (No 10), who were shot in February 2017 to detect the situation in the area occupied by the Russian Federation of Platforms in the Black Sea. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides a general conclusion that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted on the basis of proposals and observations made. The committee decided to recommend to Parliament, on the basis of the first reading, the adoption of a bill under registration number 1197 as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u67	Thank you. Is it necessary to discuss whether a vote can be taken? Vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall. Now, please prepare for the vote. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection (to ensure the rights of military and naval personnel and the Ukrainian Armed Forces to obtain the status of a participant in hostilities) (registration No. 1197). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:09:17]] For 319 Decision taken. Thank you. Shorten the lines? In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1197. Please support and vote. [[17:09:58]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, to strengthen the social protection of individual categories of persons with disabilities as a result of war (registration No. 1198). It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:10:36]] For 266 Decision taken. The word is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Frez Irina Vasilovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u68	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, you have before you a bill of 1198 amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. The social protection of the participants in the fighting, the participants in the anti-terror operation, the operation of the United Nations is an urgent and priority task of "European Solidarity" and of all of us. This was the purpose of the bill. In particular, it proposes to grant the right to free medical care in the health institutions of the Ministry of Defence, the Ukrainian Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, the State Information and Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the following categories of persons who have been disabled as a result of the war: members of hostilities in the territories of other States; members of the military and personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, law enforcement agencies, other legally defined military formations that have protected independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State; participants in the ATO, including volunteers and volunteers. It is very significant that today we are considering this bill and will try to be the only ones to provide social protection and the necessary medical care to our defenders, our volunteers, our volunteers in the appropriate institutions. I would like to point out that this bill has received an approving assessment and support from the Ministry of Defence, from the Foreign Intelligence Service, from the Ukrainian Security Service, and, accordingly, I hope that it will receive support from our session hall. Please support the bill and approve it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u69	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u70	At its meeting on November 29, the committee considered Mrs. The bill proposes that persons who have been disabled as a result of injury, injury, disability or illness resulting from a direct involvement in an anti-terrorist operation be given access to medical care at the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence approved the bill, stating that the average cost of treating people with disabilities from the State in the Ministry of Defence health facilities in 2019 amounted to 10,000 dollars per person. The likely number of people with disabilities as a result of the war to which the law will operate is 4.3 thousand. Thus, the additional need for 2020 will be 43 million dollars. These funds are not included in the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2020. The Ministry of Defence has proposed to determine the deadline for the introduction of the bill as of January 1, 2021. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to Parliament the results of the first reading of the bill on registration number 1198 as a basis, as well as to entrust the committee with the drafting of the draft bill, taking into account the comments and suggestions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss or go to a vote? Vote. I'll bet on it. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Law amending article 13 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, to guarantee their social protection, on strengthening the social protection of individual categories of persons with disabilities as a result of war (registration No. 1198). The committee proposed a basis. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:15:14]] For 313 Decision taken. The committee proposes to cut the deadline by half. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of rights and proposals and to prepare for the second reading of Bill No. 1198. Please support and vote. [[17:15:58]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the Bill of Amendments to the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u72	The honourable Presidium, the distinguished National Deputies, the Regulatory Committee yesterday at its meeting supported the proposal to amend the calendar schedule for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth vocation, which was approved by Parliament's Decree of 30 August 19th. The Regulatory Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept as a whole the draft tabled by the members of the Regulatory Committee, which is scheduled for the next week of the election of Thursday, December 9, as the day of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u73	Honorable Colleagues — Is It Needed? Then I ask you to sign up: two, two, against the factions. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u74	Please pass the word to Alexandra Ustinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u75	Who, again, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u76	I've already got the microphone on. Thank you very much. Ustenova Alexander, the Voice faction. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm very sad to hear that when we demanded, and 15 people were starving, calling for an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council to save Midan's affairs, this is what the Supreme Council couldn't do, and the Servants of the People couldn't get their people to meet in line. When it comes to voting on other bills that don't apply to the Maydan and hunger of 15 people, you put it out of your voice right now and you're trying to accept this position. I'm sorry, but you can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u77	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u78	Please pass the word to Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u79	Irina Heratschenko, Irina Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, all week long, you've been voting to shorten the deadlines for consideration of drafts for second reading. That means a tremendous burden on the committees, next week it'll be a committee. And you know when we hear that the Electoral Code, for example, was adopted in three minutes on the committee when there were five Talmuds with new amendments when more than 4,000 amendments to the Land Act were made to sell land when you're going to the committees to consider it? This week we discussed several drafts in the hall, and we voted on how the effects of the turbulence were corrected. Please tell me why you're following the principle -- better than listening to your colleagues, what's the better sense to be, less and better? We are definitely against this systemless work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following week should be devoted to serious, systematic work on committees on amendments, on bills, on thorough preparation of them for second reading. We are protesting that two bills are being tabled today, which were amended 15 seconds before the beginning of the debate. There's a right of deputies -- 10 days to study the factions of the amendment, get to know them to walk around and vote consciously, not what's going on right now. We address the honourable, indeed, heads of the regulatory committee. Let's not make this mistake and 12 numbers, next Wednesday, we'll work on the committees on the laws, not the circus, when you'll then vote on everything you've voted on in the turbines. We're against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u81	Let us not be misled, all of us have been given decisions, so to speak of what is out of the voice, to say the least. There was a committee meeting even on this issue. Vadim Eugeniovich Ivchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u82	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, 4000 340 right hand. That's what the agrarian committee needs to consider next week. Most of them were served by you, colleagues. I think each of you would like to know whether the amendment is counted or whether the amendment is rejected. Laws on the earth’s market should not be adopted in the field of turbulence. We're going to have a committee meeting on Wednesday, and I don't know what plans to review these laws. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council has been faithfully told to you that turbots can at times produce positive results. But in the turbulence we vote on what we then fix, so maybe we need to review the work. Taking into account that we have voted on a large number of laws that still need to be regulated, with which we still have to work. And considering that last Friday’s laws on the market of land were all filed and so large a number, it would only take two weeks for such laws to be discussed in the Supreme Council Hall. Please, let's work systematically. We're planning our time. We have big agrarian forums in the fields on Monday and Wednesday. We have people waiting for us. We explain our work. I understand that many members of the majority don't want to go back to their districts. But we're with the people, and we're gathering the National Committee for the Protection of the Earth. One hundred influential people have addressed the President of Ukraine and us, the national deputies. And we want to work on this approach and in this context, in this committee, we want to make a good decision for the agrarian sector. And maybe we should reject all these laws. Let's work. Let's not make another mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u83	Thank you, dear colleagues, for supporting the initiative to work. Because next week, it's not the work in the districts, it's the committees. So I think that just one day will make it possible to organize more effectively and work on committees. Four days of committee. I think that's enough to fix it. And if you want, you can continue this work on the committee tonight. I'm sure the national deputies are ready for this. Thank you. Last performance. Kiwa Ilya Volodymyrovich. Then we go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u84	Pass the word to the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u85	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, if the next four of us are going to meet with you to reduce people's tariffs in order to index pensions in order to lower prices and return government regulations, in order to finally make decisions about the protection of people who are civilians, who have suffered from hostilities; if we are going to come together and make decisions that will really affect the lives of people in our country, then we will certainly agree to work in this room all the time, even though December 31st and meet here the New Year. But only make decisions that will protect people. What do you suggest, Your Honor? We all do. You want to make decisions next week about the game business, about the land market. What are you suggesting today? No, that's not what we agree on. We do not agree to sell out Ukrainian land in our country today, and we warn you that we will not let you rob Ukraine in the area. We don't agree with legalizing marijuana, we don't want our country to become a country of gamers and drug addicts on any more Ukrainian land. And that's why "The Opposition Platform for Life" strongly denies that we can go from quality to quantity, so that we can now make an unthinkable decision. So before we change the calendar plan, we insist that you announce the agenda that you propose to consider on Thursday and only then make decisions about the calendar change.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u87	Geo Bagravitch Leros, please turn on the microphone. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u88	Dear colleague, as to what you're saying about the medical cannabis. Almost all over the world, it's legalized. We have 2 million oncoids, and as long as you say it's a drug, 2 million people need it. And please pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! No, wait, the name hasn't been mentioned, we can pick up the transcript. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole the draft Order amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2533). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:27:56]] For 229 Victory. You're really right, 226. Thank you. 229. Decision taken. Thank you. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 225, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 2, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 2. Thank you. Decision taken. You are invited to consider the next draft of the Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 2535). It is proposed to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:29:12]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u90	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the statements made by the National Deputies of the Party of the "Slut of the People": Kopilenko Alexandra Ljubimovitch, on the election of him to the Human Rights Committee, the depopulation and reintegration of the temporarily occupied territories of Donetsk, Lugansk oblasts, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol, the national minorities and national relations; and Kalaur Ivana Romanović, on the release of him from the duties of a member of the Committee and on the election of him to the Committee of Legal Policy. Given that the members of Kalaure and Kopilenko were included in the respective committees under the quota of the political party 'Serve of the People's Party', and considering that the relevant rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have suspended the mandate of the national deputies of Kubrakov and Kucher, so the quotas of the political party 'Serve of the People' to elect them to the composition of the two committees are available. Therefore, the regulatory committee supported the statements made by Deputy Kopilenko and the national deputy Calaure. And members of the regulatory committee were introduced to the Supreme Council for a draft Parliamentary Decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision on the election of heads, first deputies, head representatives, secretaries of committee members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation. The draft regulation provides: to select the Kopilenko Alexandra Ljubimovitch as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities of International Relations; and to Calaura Ivana Romanović as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy, freeing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration, National Minorities and International Relations. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u91	Discussable — Can You Do It Without Discuss? Vote. Dear colleagues! No, "uh," sorry, that's how you're going to talk in the south attire, I'm sorry. With all due respect, dear colleagues! Okay! I heard. Sign up for the performance: two in, two in the opposite. It's kind of a big deal. Fedia Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u93	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, surely every national MP has the full right to work on that committee where he sees his own self-realization, and we will vote in favour of that decision. But what worries us is that our colleague Vladimir Vátarović, who has been a national deputy for several days now, has not been included in this decree, and he also wants to work in the Committee on Humanities Policy. We appeal to the head of the regulatory committee to consider this matter as quickly as possible at our meeting, and so that all Ukrainian national deputies have the right to work on committees, not just in the sessional room. That's the first one. And the second. We note with great sadness the prejudice of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine toward our political power, as well as the individual deputies, when either our speech is not given, or our speeches are commented on, or the contempt of something that you will say there in the south of Attire. You insult the very south of Destiny, who has chosen a worthy MP who represents their interests and, in fact, the north of Destiny, excuse me. And in fact, it seems to me that, in the first place, North Restoration has the full right to have the head of the Supreme Council, including respect for their choices. We ask you not to comment on our speeches, this does not fall within the purview of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And your authority is just to hold a meeting. And we're going to vote in favour of this ruling, and once again, we're going to appeal to the regulatory committee just as soon as the next week on Thursday, December 12, which you voted in session day, as well as to support our colleague Vladimir Váterović, who is going to be equally assigned to work on the committee where he sees himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u95	Thank you. I want to say that I have a lot of respect for the south, the north of Restoration or any other area. Yet, if in the Supreme Council it is possible to act this way to the representatives of these important regions, I will stop. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Greenchuk Oksana Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u96	Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u97	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, under the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all national deputies should work on committees. The newly elected national deputies, who have not been able to be distributed according to their respective committees according to where they want to work, have been distributed to this day. Therefore, we ask that we support this decision so that each national MP can work where he wants to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u99	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I don't understand why we're stalling this issue because there's a tradition: if within our own quotas, there's a fraction of the people's MP's desire and proposal that he wants to be transferred from one committee to another, it's the sole competence of the respective faction. And considering that, in preparing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call, we have taken all the decisions by consensus, I am absolutely convinced that each faction must support such an initiative and satisfy both the wishes of the national MP and the position of the faction itself regardless of what the national MP is and what the faction is. In this case, both the law and the responsibility and personal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy and the factions. Oh, yeah. And Carthage. Mr. Ruslan, he's still among us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u101	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u102	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u103	You're not heard, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u104	I agree with the speakers who spoke to me. That's right. Such decisions must be made immediately. When the deputy takes up his duties, he must be assigned to the committee, and he must begin his work. That's why we support, we understand that the People's Servants have gone to the head of the administration or to other management positions, we understand, the Fatherland supports, which will assign members directly to the committee to start working, and they have actually done their constitutional duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u105	Thank you, Vadim Evgenovich. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies of Ukraine. Ready? I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 2535). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:38:38]] For 348 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 2534). In accordance with the Rules, this issue does not need to be included in the agenda. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:39:33]] For 237 Decision taken. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka. Please, Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u107	The Honourable Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, the Regulatory Committee at its meeting reviewed the statement by the People's Deputies of the People's Faction "Serve of the People" Yaremenko Bogdan Vasilovich of November 1st, agreed with this MP's faction that he would be released from office as head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation at his own request and that this MP's proposal to elect the National Deputy of Ukraine, Yasko, Elizabeth, the Aleksive Head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation. According to the provisions of article 83 of the Rules, the chairman of the committee may, at any time by decision of the Parliament, be dismissed on his own motion, which agrees with the relevant faction, by whose quota the deputy has been elected to head. On August 29th, at the suggestion of the "Serve of the People" faction, Deputy Jaremenko was elected head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation. The committee points out that, after the resignation of the Ukrainian national deputy as chairman of the committee, this national deputy remains a member of that committee unless another matter is accepted by the Supreme Council. So the committee supported the statement made by the national deputy Jaremenko, recommended that the Supreme Council withdraw him from the post of head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation on his own application, and also supported the proposal of the deputy faction of the Party "Serve of the People" to elect the national deputy Yasko. The National Deputies of the Committee have submitted to the Supreme Council a draft relevant decision, which the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council to adopt. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u108	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Is there a need to discuss the matter? Is that right? Please sign up: two in, two in. Please welcome National Deputy Irina Vasilovna Frez, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u109	Please pass the word to Alexia Potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u110	Please, National Deputy Alexei Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that there is no Supreme Council head. And, you know, first of all, I'd like to draw his attention to the fact that I'm inviting him to the north, which is south of Destiny, we could teach him a lot. For example, respect for our colleagues, respect for our work, and the lack of affordability of things that we cannot afford. Secondly, it's very strange for me to see a different attitude. Some members of the ruling party are fighting here, and some are doing so that they should now be released from office as chairman of the committee. But there is a way to criticize them. And they're buttoning it up, it's all there is. But criticizing them for the speaker is taboo. And here we are -- please, we can be criticized because of the opposition. Stop it, please. Because somehow, well, it's embarrassing in the north and the south and in any region. Now, here's to the essence of the question that we're considering. We certainly support the decision to change the head of the International Policy Committee. It's obvious. That's exactly what our colleagues asked us to do. And finally, for a very long time, the ruling party was going to do it, but somehow it got there, and then, thank God. But, excuse me, why are you doing this again with a violation of the Rules and putting a whole new thing in one question about choosing your head? Let's, you know, as they say, everything has to be one step at a time. "They're walking on Deribasovsky gradually," they say. So first we're releasing Jaramenek. And we're willing to vote for it. And we're not ready to appoint anyone for this moment. We want to hear the candidates, understand why these are the candidates. So we're waiting and now we're asking you to separate these two questions. And without that, we won't vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u112	Thank you. I give the floor to the national deputy of Julia Leonidni Klimenko, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please, Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u113	I want to pass on the word to Solomia Bobrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u114	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u115	Good afternoon! Look, there are a few important things. First. Regardless of who led, led or led by the majority faction of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I wanted to avoid being so-called "turbourist." Because it seems to me that this committee is the only one he's missed. In view of the fact that we have: (a) no committee meeting, we have a mass of issues that we do not respond to, we have a mass of foreign policy challenges, and especially meetings before Paris that we do not work or respond to. And I'm very sad that we haven't adopted the experience of previous committee leadership and we're doing it in a completely different, geometric way, the working mode of this committee. That's the first one. And the second. I'm sorry that the committee is supposed to become the third, the second. The priority is to have a number in positioning Ukraine in foreign policy, actually blending in and stopping from making decisions, statements and so on. And I'm sorry that Parliament's foreign policy position is one of the last places today. So first. Desires and petitions to fellow leaders. Once again, regardless of the personnel involved in the work of the committee. And the second. Cannot vote in favour of resignation and appointment in a package by one decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u116	Thank you. I give the floor to Dmitri Valeriusz Lubinz, MP for the Future. Please, Dmitri Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u117	Please pass the word to Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u118	Please pass the word to Victor Bondar. And those who stand there and close the camera go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, I think most people in the Hall understand how important this question is for Ukraine, who is leading the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council. Ukraine today is more than ever bound by international relations, very complex negotiations on all issues and geopolitical strategy, and cooperation with the European Union, and cooperation with the United States, and the question of resolving our uneasy relations with the Russian Federation, and the question of friendship with neighbours who have been confused over the past 5-7 years, is Poland and Romania, and so on. And we understand that the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council is, in fact, the Foreign Minister, the second to represent Ukraine and speak on all the largest parliamentary rostrums, international rostrums abroad on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So by assigning this person, we have, as a minimum, to listen and see how much this person is responsible for the quality of the position you want to assign him to. It's also experience, it's competence, it's diplomatic ability, it's recognition in a diplomatic environment. So there is a suggestion: Do not mix or confuse the Rules. Let's take the committee's head, which is today, to make decisions separately, whether to release it or not, and this question -- the Supreme Council will be decided very quickly. And as to who to assign, I'm sorry, it's not funny, it's not an internal question, and it's not a question that can be solved like this: So we're going to ask these questions and we're going to listen to those candidates that you're proposing, whether they're going to have enough experience to represent Ukraine in international arenas, and then the Council is going to be defined. Thank you. We're in the format when we don't vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u120	Thank you. I give the word of Volosin Yuri Anatolyevich, faction. Excuse me, Oleg Anatolyovich, opposition platform faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue exactly what colleagues from other factions have been talking about, and absolutely. Even though the committee’s current head is everywhere, there are conspiracies of a level that Makiavelly and Thaleran would be jealous of together, but there is simply such a thing as common sense. And what now is the question of changing the head of the committee is just a demonstration, no conspiracy between factions, and it's common sense and struggle for the committee to lead, really, a worthy person who doesn't do what the committee's current head actually does in the plenary. But common sense is also that it is not necessary to manipulate or really need to combine two questions into one and try to make it work. The head of the Inter-Parliamentary Liaison Committee represents the entire Parliament, and the idea is that the candidates for the post should communicate with all factions. Instead, in the media, we have clear information that there is doubt that this candidate has been contacted and has received support even in the "Services of the People" faction. Even in this matter there is a problem, and there is a great suspicion that you, your esteemed colleagues, even most of them, are simply trying to divorce you here as kittens. So we are firmly opposed to artificially trying to get a person out of office who's probably going to vote 400 deputies now, trying to reach out to a person with whom none of this issue has been communicated. Therefore, we will not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u122	Thank you. I give the floor to the People's Deputy of the People's Faction Alexander Anatolyevich Kachuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u123	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Fellows, I can assure you, our faction has been identified and the candidate for the "Serve of the People" Party is Elizabeth Yasko. International politics is the prerogative of a party that has received the greatest support in society. I think you'll agree. Elizabeth Yasko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Elizabeth Yasko is an ambassador of international relations. She was president of the Oxford Ukrainian community. She is a graduate of one of the world’s leading U.S. I'm telling you again, Elizabeth Yasko has implemented more than one international project. Therefore, I would like to ask for a consensus here to support everything in order to ensure that international policy is well worked out in the parliament. Let us vote only with a green button and support the candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Dear colleagues, I'll ask the national deputies to take their seats. Well, how can I give it to you as you've already spoken, eh, Nestor Ivanovich? Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? The Society, I am voting on the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 2534). Are you ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:52:23]] For 186 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u125	Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Next question. No, we can't vote on anything. No, it's not. I think it will. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Elimination of Corruption in the Field of Registration of Property Property Assessment Reports and Transparency of Property Implementation (Registration No. 2047-d). Reported the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, this is a long-awaited bill that has raised a lot of noise in the media. And I finally hope that we can solve this today. This bill provides for the elimination of certain schemes in the evaluation system. As you know, this bill was voted by a record number of our colleagues, 373. Up to nine pages of the Law 101 were introduced. This interest was aroused by the bill in the hall. Of these, 116 were taken into account in full or in part, or in fact, 885 were rejected. The committee decided to recommend this bill in second reading and in general as a law, and asked for an appropriate technical mandate for the technical and legal drafting of the adopted law, in particular with regard to the harmonization of terms. Please proceed to the consideration of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Stepan Ivanovich, what if I give you a little bit later, when will your revisions be? Are you saying first? And you're not going to insist on editing? I can't hear you. Turn on the Cuban microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u128	I want to, it's about many lines now, it's going to save a lot of time, I want to make some emphasis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u129	And you're going to take off your application?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u130	Then I'll take the time, much more economy, believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u131	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u132	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, you know that the 323 votes that we voted for the last bill, our political force, "European Solidarity", unanimously supported the adoption of the bill in the first reading. I would like to say that in Parliament it is essential that the weighty category of nationality of each MP be important that we adhere to the Rules. I want to say that we have witnessed today, and not only today, after a month and a half, we must, Mr. Head, be on schedule for the formation and implementation of the Rules. The draft laws we had today were discussed in violation of article 117 of the Rules. And when there's a lot of rights -- 100, 200, 300, even 50 -- we should have time to get acquainted. I mean, ready for the second reading, and we wanted to vote in the first reading, we counted 116 rights, and I think it's a common victory to understand the way we're going. Now, please, attention, it's very important! I want to sound the position that's right. Bill 2047 inexplicably introduced four new proposals that were not and were not submitted by the subject of the legislative initiative: Nos. 31, 410, 665, 896. This is a gross violation of article 116, 118 of the Rules. Dear Mr. Head, I know that the Head of the Supreme Council is always at the defense of the Rules, and our faction, and I personally always support you. I now turn to the committee and to the committee's regulations: Why are the regulatory articles and the four amendments that have been tabled unclearly and accepted by the committee? The second important question. By breaking the Rules, we have misled the people’s deputies into introducing what we have received today in the propagated documents. This is today's regulatory committee, and I ask you, Mr. Head, to give a personal commission to investigate the three rights: 31, 410, 665 and 896. Amendment 31 generally has a question about the ratio of the auction to the sale of land. And to the end. I'm going to the reporter right now and I'm going to the head of the committee to cancel the application: 31, 410, 665 and 896. These are illegal remedies, and it's not just a violation of the Rules, it's a real corrupt approach to making the bill incomprehensible. Please take them off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u133	Give me ten seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u134	Dear Mr. Head, I ask you, as Head, who is on the watch for the Rules, to clear up and remove today 31st, 410th, 665th and 896 rights, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u135	Turn on the microphone. 31st, 410th and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u136	31st, 410th, 665th and 896th. That's how we do it, and that's how we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u137	Stepan Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak - about what was just mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u138	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Thank you for your revisions, which have partly been taken into account, and for the fact that the bill has become better. Regarding the lines you mentioned. As you know, we as parliamentarians are governed not only by the Law of Rules but also by the Committees Act. Sub-paragraph. paragraph 4 of Part One of Article 15 of the Committees Act provides for proposals that have been practically unanimously supported and taken into account by all members of the Committee. So thank you for watching over compliance with the Rules and Laws, and this is how our committee was led in preparing this bill for the second reading. About the 31st Amendment. I think we'll discuss it, and the committee doesn't deny that it's not being supported in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you again for joining this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u139	No. 1, Trebushkin. Don't insist. Amendment number two, Bondar. He insists. Sorry, number one, Trebushkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u140	Good afternoon, Reverend Head! I propose to change the title of the bill and to put it in the following wording: "To amend the Ukrainian Tax Code to change the procedure for determining the value of real estate objects for tax purposes." Why? Because in that paper, I think it would be wiser to say, "To make changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code to change the order in which the value of real estate objects is determined for tax purposes." Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u141	Are you going to insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u142	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u143	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u144	This amendment was rejected as the title of the bill certainly does not increase its impact.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the number one law enforcement officer of the national MP Trebushkin is issued. The committee did not support this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[18:02:16]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Amendment number two, National Deputy Bondar. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u146	Dear colleagues, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, this bill, I would like to say, has a total of thousands of amendments that have been made by the people's deputies. These changes have arisen in recent days, and they have hardly been seen by national deputies. And today they've been given to us by the galloping of these Talmuds, and whatever you want, and look at it, it's called this law-making work. Today, we were similarly given the Electoral Codex, which had to be removed. Today we were similarly presented with Bill 2260, which is the same as Team Ze, "The Servant of the People," because of 300 amendments that no one has seen, and now a thousand amendments, and most of them have not seen. And it was also quite right to say that there are 4 amendments that are already pseudo-corrected, because it's where the chemistry starts: there's the land issue, there's the car issue, there's the inheritance issue. The amendments were made incomprehensible, and the committee added them after they were officially made under the Rules. So what kind of manipulation is that? Let's take a picture of this bill today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u147	Dear colleagues, here's a lot of rights, let's put ourselves in the Rules. No, I'm sorry, Victor Vasilovich, let's bet on the Rules. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u148	Thank you, Mr. Bondar and, of course, Mr. Anton for this amendment, but she's rejected, and the committee didn't support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u149	I'll bet you number two on the vote of the Bondar People's Deputies. It's not considered by the committee. Please vote and determine. [[18:04:13]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Edit 3, Jujanina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u150	I'm not going to put my amendment on confirmation, but I want to emphasise right now, dear colleagues, you're still young, you're eager, you want to crush something, show it. Nevertheless, if the Tax Code is amended to change the tax system, it is called that, it should not be called eloquent words, and now you disagree. Unfortunately, it's wrong, it doesn't fit the norm. Please don't bet, but all the answers you've given your colleagues are incorrect. And about the amendments he called the Cubans. Indeed, if the committee makes a unanimous decision about another edition, it is written that it is the committee’s decision in the table, not the amendments that are not registered in the deadlines. That's a rude violation of yours. Mr. Jaroslav, you can't really do that. You've named the rule of law that you've covered up, it doesn't correspond to this kind of case. If the committee decides otherwise, it says, "The committee's decision," not the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u151	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Can I not call your amendments? Yeah? That's all you insist on, everyone else. Don't you insist on everyone? Please turn on the microphone, I just didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u152	I'll insist on some amendments. I'll stop you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u153	Okay. Amendment number 4. Papiev. Don't insist. Cubas, 5 revisions. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u154	Dear Mr. Head! Once the reporter said that there was no violation of the law, I ask the Legislature Committee to investigate the four rights, there is a grave violation of the law, and there the Regulatory Committee will pass it on to the law enforcement authorities. Now, before I do my homework. The proposal for the cost of a real estate object for tax purposes was calculated solely by the sole electronic cost base of the property. The first is without the involvement of evaluation entities. And what's important is free service to every person who's going to be able to participate properly in the evaluation. Thank you. Please vote, stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote number five of the Cuban People's Deputies. It's not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[18:07:08]] For-63 The decision is not taken. It's number six, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u156	I insist. You didn't let me finish, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, the last. I would like to point out once again that most of the MPs' rights have not been seen, in a 10-day term, no one has given them away. This is a gross violation of the Rules. We're offering you, we're offering: let's take it to the next week, and we'll take it easy, everybody will learn what's going on. There are four legal remedies that will be applied to law enforcement. In violation of the Rules, there will be an appeal to the Constitutional Court, and you will simply break this law, and that will be the end of it. The other one. This bill once again replaced the concept. There is already a state-owned enterprise that will raise money further. I mean, what are we changing, what are we changing? Let's study carefully, let's look at these amendments, let's get all the MPs analyzed, then we'll really vote normally. And in the next week, we will quietly go through, vote, and actually vote on those changes that are fundamental. So I urge our comments, other colleagues, to put them on the stand. And let the hall be determined that then there will be a story of who supported and who did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u157	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 6 of the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:08:48]] For-52 The decision is not taken. No. 7, Coltunovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u158	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to say that on the first reading, we voted in favour and supported the draft law on the abolition of so-called "majors" from a real estate assessment. I'd like to say, first of all, that I have 11. And there are some unaccounted for: it's 7, 41, 99, 346, 493,638, but they don't make sense if we don't vote for 116. So if we put 116 then, and we don't support it, then in the future, everyone has no sense. So I'm only going to insist on 116 amendments. And for these, I would like to thank the working group for taking 11 amendments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u159	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, for the constructive position. Number 8, Hotcharyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u160	Thank you. I'd like to do 8, 10, 17, 27, 34 and 73 -- the first six of my rights, and I'm willing not to insist on them, but I'd like to ask Head for two minutes so that I can get out of these rights. And then these six rights, I'm not going to insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u161	Only 6 or you have more, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u162	I'm more of a right-hand man, but I'm six for now, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u163	To what? What will be the next one you insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u164	The next one is, I think, 79th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u165	79th. Two minutes please turn on the potter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u166	Thank you. So, dear friends, we are considering an extremely important bill. And I personally, and our faction "European Solidarity" voted in favour of this bill in the first reading. What is more, he will certainly need to be supported in the second reading. But as for me, our task as a parliament is not just to do better than it was, but if there is a possibility, if we have already reached this point, to do the perfect thing already, to not go back to this issue for perhaps years, to make it a system that we can really be proud of. And that's why I've given a bunch of bars, and some of them I'm going to insist, some of them I'm not. Some of my corrections are taken into account, for which I thank the committee. But I would like to draw your attention to what my amendments are aimed at. It's about improving the access of Ukrainian citizens to a database suitable for these services, I've given 2 options, given or free of charge at all, i.e. access to the single database of evaluation reports is free of charge for all citizens, or another option: the fee for the formation and registration of the market value of the valuation object is 2.5 percent, i.e. today it's 50 dollars, from the subsistence minimum set for working persons, and it's in full terms of the country's budget. Access to the only database to verify the form of help is free of charge. So the whole right-hand complex that I gave was meant to make this law better. I'm sorry that actually only a few of them were supported, and in some that I think are important, I'm going to ask the hall to consider them, and today, during the consideration of the law, to vote that we can actually make such a law that we can all be proud of together with you. Thank you. I don't insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u167	Thank you. 9th row, Bondar. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u168	I insist. I'd like to resound, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. If you really want people to benefit, you don't have to do state-owned businesses that will raise money from people again. The first time is 52 bracelets, then there's almost 300 bracelets. Well, that's not right. For government services that the state does electronically, it's not about taking money, it's about zero. And we have a bill. We're human. We take down one problem, we create a new problem for people. And it's in the "buried" version. So a lot of the rights to be analyzed, to clean up all these things, then calmly vote them down. You can go through this in a week. No one says we have to hurry. This troublemaker does nothing to prevent the week from waiting or checking everything that was imposed. Let's work for a week and vote next. Well, you don't hear the same thing. Thank you. Let's be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u169	Look, I'd just like to point out. Victor Vasilovich, you just said a political speech. But you didn't say a word about your amendment. If it is so important, you may need to be told about it with all due respect. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no. I think the third time you're just saying that. Come on, I'll give you 10 minutes, if you just have to say and pull the time, and then we won't insist on the adjustments. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u170	Dear Victor Vasilovich, you know, this bill does not create state-owned enterprises. And it's, as you know, designed to just overcome the scheme that raises money from people. Each day of delay, according to the media, is a huge amount of money that goes inconceivably. So your revisions, which completely predict another way of adding two points and that kind of thing, weren't supported by the committee. And please do not delay the consideration of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u171	Thank you. Can we go to the next revision because we haven't discussed this? 10 lashes. You didn't even explain it, Victor Vasilovich. I'll bet you a vote on 9 Bondar. Please identify and vote. [[18:15:02]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Line 10, Goncharenko. Don't insist. 14th, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u172	Dear colleagues, I am going to explain, perhaps because my final amendment to this block, which, according to the norm-designing technique and the structure of the Tax Code, requires a mandatory definition of the terms used for tax purposes. You look even after the amendments, the term "market value" each defines your own judgment. We could use this definition, for example, if this definition were even in the Property Assessment, Property Rights and Occupational Evaluation Act, but it's not there. This definition is only in a national standard, which is not the law, and therefore it is not possible to refer to it. These definitions, like the following valuations, should be given in the Tax Code so that taxes are applied exactly as the drafters wanted. Please, there's nothing made up here, there's only a requirement of the Tax Code, because there's a structure of the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u173	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote number 14 of the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Please identify and vote. [[18:16:46]] For-50 The decision is not taken. No. 15, Dubinsky. Don't insist. 16, Cuba. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u174	Dear Mr. Head, once again, I would like to remind you that the block I have proposed is a system for determining the value of a property for tax purposes. And there are no evaluative subjects and authorized electronic sites. The revision that we're talking about is the implementation of an electronic cost-detection database in the information and telecommunications system. In particular, I'm going to point out that the information transfer process is being cleaned up by authorized electronic sites and intermediaries, and we're changing the media into different media outlets. And I ask the speaker to give a specific answer to the warnings, not to the general, excuse me, tautology.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u175	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u176	Stepan Ivanovich, this whole thing about different information systems, a completely different story, it's not implemented. But it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u177	Are you insisting, Stepan Ivanovich? Do you insist on voting? Vote number 16 of the Cuban national deputy Stepan Ivanovich. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[18:18:28]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 17, the potter. You missed her, didn't you? Next. The next amendment is number 18, People's Deputy Papiev. Don't insist. The next amendment is the number 19 of the Cuban people's deputies. Do you insist, Stepan Ivanovich? Don't insist. The next amendment is number 20, the Cuban People's Deputy. Do you insist, Stepan Ivanovich? Don't insist. The next amendment is number 22, the Cuban People's Deputy. I'm sorry, I don't see the Cuban National Deputy, and I don't see what he's saying, either way. Don't insist. The next issue is number 25, the People's Deputy of Gerega. Is there a room? None. Don't insist. The next issue is number 26, Bondar's People's Deputy. He insists. Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u178	That's exactly what Nina Petrovn Yuzanin said, that every interpretation of a normative act, and including how the cost is defined, what the average cost is, how to calculate it. And this right right over here is what we're proposing to do is to write the right technical mechanism, as on the website of the holding fund, and we're defining the average cost, the average cost of the object. There's a formula that suggests improving the system, making it more transparent. So that the person who walks in, anyone who takes part in this is able to see how the average market price is being formed, which objects were acting with the criteria that were already being sold in this area, what was the estimate, what were the price factors and so on. So there's a lot of technical issues that are being solved. And I'm going to go into the technical detail there, but those who have studied the bill in detail understand what I'm talking about. So please put the application on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u179	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u180	This term, just as it is now, is mentioned in the Tax Code, so this amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u181	Thank you. There's an amendment number 26, the Bondar People's Deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:20:53]] For-39 The decision is not taken. Next line is 27, People's Deputy Goncharenko. We're missing it. Next line is 28, National Deputy Yatzenko. Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we haven't arrived yet. It's 28th, People's Deputy Yatzenko. I can't see, I don't insist. Next line is 29, National MP Rudik. Don't insist. The next is 30, National Deputy Koltunović. But you said they were connected. Is that what I'm saying? Okay. Next line 31. Yeah? Please, who? Please, National Deputy Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u182	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. You know, I remember that night when "The Fatherland" offered to increase teachers' salary, and Parliament voted in favour of these assessment sites, these databases. You know, I'm glad we canceled on the first reading, and now the second reading question is going on. But 31 revisions, I want to remind each of you what's the difference between land regulation and market value or direct expert evaluation. So what happened is that the past government has discounted people's assessment of the land as a rule of law, it's understated, and it's made this decision by 20 percent. And you're actually offering revenue today to take away from the regulatory money, which means that people and the Ukrainian budget are going to run out of money. So I'm putting this amendment to the confirmation and I'm asking the room not to vote because it's exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u183	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u184	Thank you, Mr. Yvchenko. We support your position. And we now propose to the hall, regardless of the committee's decision, this number 31, and the next one, which is essentially rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u185	Thank you. It's on approval number 31. The committee does not object to its failure to support it. Please identify and vote. [[18:23:27]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The next item is 32nd. It's partially accounted for. People's MP Ivchenko, too. That's what I understand, with the same offer. Yeah? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u186	I would like to thank the reporter directly, Mr. Ironman, for agreeing to the normal offer. We, as nationals, have to work: (a) for the people who chose us; (b) we have to fill the budget to make social expenditures. Thank you. It's the same problem. And I'm asking you not to support 32 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u187	Thank you. I understand the same argument, on the one hand and on the other. The committee doesn't object. And I'm betting on confirmation of 32 revisions. Please identify and vote. [[18:24:26]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next is number 33, People's Deputy Papiev. Don't insist. Next up is number 34, the People's Deputy of Hotcharyenka. We agreed until 73rd. Next issue of the Bondar People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u188	That's the right thing to do. It should be noted that the e-valuation module of the one database of evaluation reports is no longer needed, as the system will work much easier. The average market value of real estate will be calculated, which will be determined by the central authority of the executive authority, which will ensure the formation of public policy in the field of economic development in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, and will be published on the official website of this body in free access to the 10th month following the reporting quarter. This is such an important technical paper, please put it in support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u189	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u190	This amendment was not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u191	Thank you. It's a 35-seat vote, National Deputy Bondar, and it's suggested that the committee reject it. Please identify and vote. [[18:25:50]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 36, People's Deputy Koltunović. We talked. The next issue is number 37, People's Deputy Rudik, I can't see. Don't insist. The next issue is number 39, National Deputy Trebushkin. You insist, don't you? National Deputy Trebushkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u192	Dear Chairman, I propose to amend the following: "The income from the sale of a real estate object is determined automatically by the only system for determining the real estate market value." Dear colleagues, this proposal concerns the following. I believe that the income from the sale of a real estate object should be determined by the market value of the real estate in question. In order to implement the proposed concept, a single system should be established to determine the market value of immovable property, which should be equipped with the possibility of automatic application of all possible methodological approaches, including comparative ones based on the analysis of sales prices and similar property, which should not be doubtful, or in the absence of reliable information on changes in sales prices of the like property, based on price information on the offer of the like property, taking into account the relevant rights. So I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u193	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u194	This amendment actually kills the module, so it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u195	Thank you. It's number 39, People's Deputy Trebushkin. The committee has proposed that this amendment be rejected, so please identify and vote. [[18:27:42]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 40, the National Deputy of Volosin. Are you insisting? Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u196	Mr. Ironborn, I'm asking you very much to explain the philosophy of approach? If you're cleaning the middlemen, the pitches are so called, then why are you extending the grading authority? Why you can't stop, actually, and that's actually what I'm doing. Why can't we just leave the electronic system behind, so why do we put evaluation entities into the law? Everyone knows it's another corruption scheme, and it's not known why you're bringing it into this law. I've got 46 revisions for that. So I just want you to explain the logic of how you can fight one corruption and create another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u197	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u198	Thank you for your amendment, but in fact we're this bill and we're cleaning up the assessors, we're leaving them as an additional option if our citizens want us to. That's why we're struggling with all the corruption schemes, but the most important thing is in the assessment system, which every day, according to the media, requires 2 million dollars of our citizens' money. That's why it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u199	You insist, don't you? You insist, don't you? I'm setting up the 40th National Deputy of Volosin. The committee did not support this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[18:29:22]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Next line 41, National Deputy Koltunović, we're going through it. The next one is 42, People's Deputy Kovalova. Don't insist. The next issue is number 43, People's Deputy Papiev. Don't insist. The next one is number 44, People's Deputy Kovalova. Don't insist. Next up, number 45, National Deputy Trebushkin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u200	Dear Chairman, the following amendment: "The income from the sale of a real estate object is determined by the automatic determined value of the single real estate price database." Why do I say that? That the income from the sale of a real estate object should be determined by the market value of the real estate in question. In order to implement the proposed concept, the only price database should be created, which should be equipped with the possibility of automatic application of all possible methodological approaches, including comparative ones based on the results of the sales analysis on the same property, the reliability of which should not be called into question. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u201	I see. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u202	This amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u203	Thank you. Are you insisting? There's an amendment of 45 people's deputies, Trebushkin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:31:11]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next up, number number 46 of the Volosin People's Deputies. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u204	Dear reporter, once again, in fact, you've previously agreed, in considering my previous revision, that the system's rating is being preserved. I mean, in this legislation, it's unnecessary. So let's just clean them up -- that's it. Why Not Agree? You know, everybody knows who's been dealing with this, that there are numerous cases of low market value valuations based on contracts between a seller and an assessor that create corruption in the commercial sector. Let's just leave the One Base and all, and remove the subjects of valuation as such, and all of that, the basic thing. I don't understand what the problem is if you agree that this is optional. Let's just clean up this option so no one takes advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u205	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u206	Thank you. Regrettably, you have served so many rights, but you have never been on a subcommittee or committee. We've discussed everything and we've left what it's going to be like, the automatic system, it appreciates, if it wants to challenge or make more criteria, it's a citizen's right. So that's what we're proposing here. This is an amendment we're proposing to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u207	Thank you. Are you insisting? Vote number 46, National Deputy of Volosin. The committee did not support this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[18:32:41.]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Next up is number 47, the national deputy of Kubov Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u208	Dear Chairman, it is the support of 31 revisions that speaks of the corruption that has been supported and introduced on the committee. At 47th and 51st, Mr. Chairman, two revisions: "not below the estimate" replace "not below the price." We're talking about the consolidation of the government's costing system of real estate, the concept of valuation value -- that's the notion that the evaluative sphere is done automatically, without intermediaries, that's 47th. And we say that the information comes directly from the notary, and we take the intermediaries that are forcing us to do so today. And the main thing is the reduced costs of individuals, and this is very important because we're talking about social services to the population. And the state value settlement system is suggested to determine how the value of a real estate object is, I'm talking about 51st so as not to take the word again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u209	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u210	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. I would ask you very much not to offend the committee that has worked on this bill for a long time and on most other bills, and I have made my decision under Ukrainian law. This was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u211	Thank you. Are you insisting, Stepan Ivanovich? The vote is number 47 of the Cuban people's MP, and the committee is proposing that this amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[18:34:28]] For-38 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u212	Dear colleagues, may I ask the factions to come up now? I'm not going to announce the recess, I'm going to ask you to talk, and we're going to continue to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u213	Let's move on. Amendment number 48, People's Deputy Papiev. Don't insist. Amendment 49, People's Deputy Trebushkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u214	Dear Chairman, I propose the words "the only database of evaluation reports" in all differences to replace the words "the only database of evaluation reports" with the corresponding differences. Why am I suggesting this? I think the word "data" is invalid, because the only database should have reports, not reports. Therefore, if there is a lack of precision, manipulation and abuse are possible, filling out the database is not just information about these reports that will not contain complete information or limitations on receiving the relevant report. So in order to avoid the vague use of a specific definition and non-abuse, please replace the words "base of evaluation reports" in all the differences with the words "only database of evaluation reports." Please consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u215	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u216	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u217	Thank you. A vote of 49 national MP Trebushkin is put to the vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:36:15]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The next line is the 51st National Deputy of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Are you insisting? Let's move on. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Next. Amendment number 52, People's Deputy Trebushkin. Or maybe I could ask you to group your papers together, and I'll give you two or three minutes. Is there such an option in our communication?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u218	Dear Chairman, I propose in the paragraph that the word "sale" be replaced by the word "exclusion." The proposal relates to changing the word in paragraph 2 of the word "sale" to "exclusion". This proposal, I think, is appropriate, given that the term "exclusion" as opposed to "sale" has a broader meaning. That is, any action taken by a person in accordance with the law loses ownership of property belonging to him or the right to use such property is considered to be alienated. So it's going to be more valid to use the exact term alienation. Please be supportive and consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u219	And you might ask, what other methods of estrangement besides selling are you proposing to insert? As a civil law professor, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u220	What ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u221	Yes, the alienation you're proposing to insert?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u222	A lot of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u223	Well, what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u224	It's a gift.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u225	It's a gift. Okay, thanks. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u226	Thank you, Mr. Anton, for this new assignment. It's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u227	Thank you. It's the vote number 52 of the people's deputy Trebushkin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:38:13]] For-24 The decision is not taken. The next is 53, the People's Deputy Papiev. Excuse me? You can't do Papiev's. You can't do Papiev's. Thank you, no. The next issue is number 54, National Deputy Trebushkin. Next. Thank you. Number 55, Cuban People's Deputy. Next, thank you. Number 56, National Deputy of South Carolina. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u228	Dear colleagues, right now, Mr. Ironman, it's not funny. Because if you fail to define the terms in article 14 of the Tax Code, you are now raising many questions. If we look at what is now a tax base, based on just one article of the Tax Code from one sub-paragraph, we read only 172.3. And you say that according to the logic that you and I have repeatedly talked about having an object, the price of an object must be determined by the estimated value that is automatically determined by the module. Yeah? If a physical person disagrees, he turns, and then the market value is used. You can see what you wrote in item 172: either--or. So the mechanism doesn't work. Not counting my correction that if a natural person disagrees, only then does it go to the evaluator, you do the opportunity without the estimated value of the defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u229	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u230	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for your suggestions. In fact, there's not actually going to be any more in the text than there is in this general norm. Thank you. This was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u231	Thank you. Vote number 56 of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:40:29]] For-42 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 57, People's Deputy Trebushkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u232	Dear Chairman, I propose that the word "electronic definition" be replaced by the words "electronic calculation." Why do I say that? In paragraph 2 of the second sub-paragraph, the word "electronic definition" should be replaced by "electronic calculation", which is more valid in this case, taking into account that the estimated cost of the single evaluation report is the result of the relevant module equipped with an electronic option to calculate the cost of the property concerned by determining the final electronic cost calculation of the estimated value of the property, the reliability of which will not call into question. So please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u233	Thank you. You insist, don't you? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u234	Thank you, Mr. Trebushkin. He actually gave even two versions of the amendment, but of course it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u235	Thank you. Vote number 57 of the national MP Trebushkin. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[18:41:56]] For-23 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 58, the national deputy of Crybaby. Don't insist, all right? Next. The next issue is number 59, National Deputy Trebushkin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u236	Mr. Chairman, I propose: "The determination of market value is carried out by a evaluator who meets the requirements set out by the Ukrainian State Property Fund and whose information is included in the State Register of evaluators and evaluators." I think that we can avoid any manipulation or abuse that is appropriate to replace. So please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u237	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u238	Thank you and Mr. Anton for this readjustment. It was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u239	Thank you. There's an amendment number 59 of the people's deputy Trebushkin. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Please identify and vote. [[18:43:14]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 60, the national deputy of the South. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u240	Dear colleagues, Mr. Jaroslav, the basic article of the Tax Code, which defines the tax base, is not written enough to first apply the estimated cost and then the market value. You didn't give me an answer the last time why you didn't consider my amendment under number 56, which saves you. If you really want to replace one system with another, but for another system to work. In no other article will you define what you said, based on your logic, that you first automatically define and then go to the assessors. Now you suggest we go to the evaluators right now. And that's why I'm here to support my colleagues. Why are you lobbying the evaluators to this extent? You don't have to. Say one word that if a person disagrees with the estimated value, then he goes to the market. It's a tax base, understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u241	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u242	Thank you, Nina Petrovna, for your concern for this bill, and thank you for his support. I'm sure it's listed below. What's more, you know, this system has been running for years, unfortunately, with corruption courses. That's why this was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u243	Thank you. Vote number 60 of the national deputy of the South. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[6:44:57]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The next issue is number 61, the national deputy of Platchev. None. Next line number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u244	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, one minute. Dear colleagues, please tell each faction that each parliamentary group had proposals for this law. In my subjective view, it is my personal opinion that these adjustments are, unfortunately, aimed at delaying this process, not at. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait. Wait, please. Not to improve it. I may be wrong, but I have the same right to think. I would now like to ask each faction whether they will be ready to withdraw their amendments in order to adopt this bill more quickly. Wait, one second, wait, I didn't prove it. If there's a lot of rights, and I understand that there's some number of rights we can go through, but I'd like to understand. I'll make you a deal, Victor Ivanovich. I'd like to understand how many rights each factions are going to declare. If that's a lot of law enforcement, I'm going to propose to the great hall that we change our order of work today. The authors of the rights remain to insist on them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, please! I, my colleagues, and we will follow all the regulations that have not been taken into account. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think that this could be donated to the government and to the fight against various schemes, many will agree. No, wait, can I offer? Thank you. And tomorrow morning we will return to voting for the law as a whole. And now I'd like to hear from the faction leaders a position on the line. If you don't mind, we'll leave the People's Service. David Georgiyovich Arahami How many rights will the "Serve of the People" party insist on?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u245	The People's Party will insist on zero rights. We're all going to vote and we're going to break the law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u246	Thank you. The next is the faction of the European Solidarity Party. Irina Volodymyrna?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u247	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this morning began in the office of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where we informed him that it was a major violation of the Rules when the amendments were handed out in the session hall in 15 minutes. And for example, the head of Parliament has just heard from us that there is an amendment in the next law that releases.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u248	Irina Volodymyrna, I think let's talk about this bill for now and then we'll come back. I'll give you a reason to even speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u249	You gave it to me. This is a very important subject that we are discussing. To this law, my friends, they gave out a table of amendments, a thousand amendments, tonight. And unlike the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Heratchenko has been reading them all night, you know, just like the electoral amendments, the electoral amendments, and the next law that they're putting an end to the e-declaration for the President's Office, for example. And the head of the Supreme Council heard it from me, and he didn't even know it. Therefore, we refer to you, Your Honor, not to violate the Rules, but to the following: not the faction amends, but the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u250	From the factions, to the MPs of your faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u251	It's MPs, they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u252	Give me 10 seconds to finish. Can you tell me how many deputies, how many rights?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u253	Since our faction, several deputies have amended, as far as I know, about 10 amendments have been made by another MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u254	Turn on the microphone, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u255	One MP insists on 10 amendments and the 20th MP who are the authors of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u256	Who, if possible, by the staff simply to understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u257	And I'm not the author of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u258	I just understand that two deputies are 30 total rights, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u259	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u260	Thank you. Next. Voice. Sergey Ivanovich? Please turn on the Rachmanin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u261	Thank you. The Deputies of the Voice faction don't insist on any of the unconfirmed rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u262	Thank you very much. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u263	Our faction has been struck down by 31 and 32, and we're not actually going to make any more rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u264	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u265	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I think I will please you. And we, our faction of the "For the Future" MP group, have decided that we're not going to make any adjustments, no matter how difficult it is. Some of the deputies wanted to support themselves, but in order not to delay the process, we will support the bill and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u266	Thank you very much and so do your colleagues. Representatives of the non-fractional sector, if I may say so, thank you very much for not having any rights. "The Opposition Platform for Life", Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u267	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, our faction removes all amendments to the bill. On behalf of the two authors who have submitted more than 100 amendments, we ask that you give the floor for three minutes to speak from the rostrum to the national deputy Oleg Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u268	A hairline?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u269	Oleg Volosin for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u270	Oleg Vlasin 3 minutes. I mean. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. So if I understand correctly, we have 3 minutes of hair and 10 and 20 rights of hair. Trebushkin. How much? 2 revisions. Chess, too? 20? Dear colleagues, let's do it. I'm asking you very much, let's not insist on redundancies. All right, we're almost done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u271	Let's thank the People's Deputy Trebushkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u272	Yeah. Thank you very much. Volosin, too? [[B in m in s a l in]] Three minutes is Nina Petrovna and three minutes. and 5 minutes – Stepan Ivanovich. Am I saying it right? You're five minutes. Wait a minute. Let me give Oleg Anatolyovich a word. Irina Volodymyrna, can I talk to you for a second? Give me your word, please. Jaroslav Ivanovich, if possible, from the rostrum to make it easier.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u273	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! Really. And reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, personally. You know, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we've known you long enough, and I've always appreciated your intellect and your fine sense of humor. But now this bill is very illustrative, because it shows, in principle, the historic moment in which we live today. It was probably never possible in Ukraine's history to imagine that this room would bring about such standards as the complete abolition of the list of enterprises that were banned from privatization as a completely anti-national law, until in the first reading, the market of land, as totally unacceptable, from the point of view of the interests of small businesses, the legislation on accounting devices, as in fact the destruction of the social insurance system and many other things that only Grant Organizations dreamed of. And what, we know, in the commonplace, are called "sorts." They made a unique use of it. I'll remind you, my favorite phrase is that when the people of Ukraine voted for Mr. Zelensky, they thought he was writing a famous three-letter word in the parking lot, and when dawn came, it turned out that these three letters were IMF. And now, in such an area of concern, under the guidance of respectable people, such as Mr. Razumkov, who has no relation to the sorority, they're stretching out the standards that we'll then drag out of our legislation for decades in order to prevent Ukraine from finally becoming a country of Latin America. Because Latin America is an example of what the Washington Consensus is. It's when selected Chicago boys, sent from a famous country or raised there, set standards by which the poor never get out of poverty, and society divides into those living behind the big fence, and all the rest. And today we have the same law, and Mr. Ironman here with a bold smile, when Mrs. Southanina makes the right remarks by referring to the norms of legislation. In fact, we don't agree with her on many issues, on the basis of an assessment of the situation on Donbass and all that, but I can't deny that her observations are absolutely clear and meaningful. But with a bold smile, it is thrown out because they have decided everything because they think they have taken God out of their beard. You know, I do today, regularly, when traffic, I go to the subway -- and I'm not afraid of it, and in your place I'd start to fear, you'd just be getting beat up for what you're doing in this country, for pulling the interests of transnational corporations, for pulling the interests of Grandpa Soros, who is actually doing a brilliant job today: he was investing earlier in a grant, and now he's transferring us, and he's actually transferring us to the self-financing system of ProZorro and a lot of other systems that you've created, like sterns, allowing us to go to self-financing today even without external grants. And it's not really about this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u274	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u275	In front of the earth market, and there do not expect us to record our revisions. By all legal means, by blocking the rostrum, by amendments, we will stop the sale of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u276	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. The next rule is: Nina Petrovna Južanina - 3 minutes, 3 minutes Alexeiovich Honcharenko, 5 minutes Stepanovich Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you sure he'll agree to change you by 5, by 3? All right, we got a deal. 5 - Nina Petrovna and then 2 minutes later, and we go to the vote. I said two minutes, per minute. I see. Please turn on Nina Petrovney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u277	Dear colleagues, with great respect for you, has everyone appreciated the system that has operated to this day? No, I didn't. Has there ever been any similar system that would really lead to market price in sales contracts? No, it was not, no one built such a system, so they accepted what was possible at the time. The system brought it in from the beginning. The work of this system began on July 1, 2018. By September 1, 2019, the tax base, which was determined on the basis of the operating system, had increased and thus paid to the budget, a tax on the income of individuals, had reached 9 billion. Compared to previous periods, this figure was 1 billion. Was the system harmful? I don't know. By the way, it's a shame that the committee's adoption of each draft law lacks the conclusions of the government today, the conclusions of the Ministry of Finance. There comes a man, a deputy who is afraid to say a word to the representatives of the committee today, his opinion is not real and does not really reflect what the Cabinet of Ministers is supposed to sound like, looking for a basis where to find additional revenue in the budget. The system is breaking down. I don't mind breaking it, but build one that will work and produce at least the same result. But populism clouded the eyes of all young people, decided not to get into the details and write as quickly as possible, which is what is happening now in the hall. Indeed, a very large number of amendments have been made. My amendments were about one thing: please write down the definition, so that the tax base is exactly the same as the purpose you set for yourself. What a person does at first, and for this too, it is necessary to foresee the function of this base so that the individual can provide all the information about his or her object that he or she will sell. Even the basic thing was not taken into account for the system to work. We know who the holding fund is, but we know who the evaluators are. These are people who are inseparably bound, and according to all European standards, the supervision of the work of any kind of profession is to be carried out by another body, something that gives the certificates. So I'm against this combination, when both the database and the database building will be in the holding fund. It also certifies assessors who will bring market value on the basis of their reports. And then there's the rule that if, if an estimater's report is more than 25 percent different, then only then does it have to explain. The holding fund can call it, it provides an explanation for its evaluation. I'm sorry, it's been working together for years. With both experience and experience, you have to make sure that the biggest problem in our country is the implementation of documents, the rules of legislation. In order for them to do exactly what you want them to do, you have to write them so clearly. There can be no law that you've made on both sides to solve the global problem that you're now trying to solve. You're doing it right, but you're in a hurry. Why, who will give you a medal for this? Where's Minfin, where's the government that hasn't been tracking everything down, where are they? I want to say that as a result of the committee, just as you do now and the hall, as you do, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, you don't actually hear, in fact, you're in a hurry. I repeat, you should have given the commission to the committee, if that's the decision to make, maybe take a little longer work, maybe work a little deeper. Work with specialists to give you. If you don't want to hear from the opposition, find out among your people who will take care of all of this and give you their advice, because even in a tax base, you're allowing a definition that can be treated in two ways. Already half of the people in Ukraine have read that this can be a direct call to the assessor, and no cost, determined automatically by the module. So I suggested, for example, that this base.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u278	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, no one's going anywhere. Ten seconds, and the next one. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u279	Dear colleagues, there's no need for a referendum. We simply need to be more professional when it comes to our responsibilities. I'm counting on you to be responsible, to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u280	Thank you. Alexeiovich Honcharenko You won't? And from the spot, please turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u281	Dear colleagues, in fact, really, a lot of rights, and there was a great desire to make this law even better, and in fact one that fully corresponds to what people expect us to do today. Unfortunately, I can see that there is no such readiness in the session room. So I'm not going to insist on all my rights, but there's one right that's absolutely principled -- this is regulation 664, and I would ask, I insist on this right now, I'm going to base it. So this edit says, "Access, input, verification of information from/to a single database is done free of charge. Electronic statements on the cost of a real estate object are made free of charge. ” Reason: This bill aims to simplify the assessment of immovable objects by eliminating the corruption scheme in the area of registering information from reports on the assessment of real estate objects and ending the harassment of citizens and notaries in favour of private structures for the use of the proper state of the Single Assessment Report Database, as well as the introduction of a new alternative simplified method of assessing real estate objects. Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention, because I can insist on 100 more! Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the chairman to ask his colleagues to listen somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u282	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u283	Dear colleagues, let's have some respect for each other!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u284	Dear colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u285	A very important question, once again, is for people. I don't understand why colleagues don't care, it's for people. If we're going to do our job of overcoming corruption schemes, we have to go to the end, citizens have no money to pay for any services they have to perform, they're going to make electronic statements about the market value of a real estate object. The information on the website should be widely available and free of charge. Reports on the value of immovable property should be made available on a free basis by notaries who check, form, review information from the Single Base, do it free of charge, and then the state budget of Ukraine is funded by the National Property Fund of Ukraine's Single Base. I'm asking you to put this amendment for confirmation and ask your colleagues not to say a word, but to show their loyalty and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u286	Is that 664-a? Come on. Alexiyyovich, come on, now Stepan Ivanovich, then we'll go back to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] 10 seconds, turn on Hotchrenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u287	This amendment was unfortunately rejected by the committee, and I ask the hall to support it and bring it into the body of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u288	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u289	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! First of all, I would like to thank the Head of the Supreme Council, looking at the unsatisfactory preparation of the matter at the Supreme Council Hall. I have experience, and the Supreme Council has always been and should remain a pillar of statehood, humanity, professionalism and responsibility for the state and for the people. Today, the inadequacy of this bill costs $3 billion by the end of the year. A budget that was balanced for assets and liabilities of 20 billion, a 40.3 billion budget failure, and is expected to be minus 15 billion. Colleagues, non-professional training is that I introduced ProZorro, and thank my colleagues, including Maxim Nephedov, and the Ministry of Economics, Justice and Finance. I've been implementing this law. And go on to the Court of Auditors' website and apply for an inadequate assessment of this law - 9 pages. There were 5,000 rights to write. To that end, the Head of the Supreme Council invited the head of the committee and the committee to hold a working meeting before the question was brought to the Chamber. Otherwise, the document must be executed. This document is stability, the profession of the Supreme Council. I have no confidence today in the expertise of the committee head. I don't trust today that we're wasting government money that we won't get by the end of the year. And I would like, Mr. Head, to ask for stability on the most important committee today on the Supreme Council. The human potential, which must be basic, professional, must be based on the principles of compliance. Rules are professions, rules are stability and income is budgeted. I want to say and help today that this year's budget should be implemented. It's pension payments, we're talking about funding medical programs, we're talking about social programs, we're talking about decentralization. The lack of confidence in a committee in the negative quality of document preparation is based on two principles. We're switching agents to each other, and the other mediators include four corruption charges, so I'll do it again. And I'm not going to leave this question just like a human statesman since 1990, where I haven't changed any values, and I'm not going to change values, and Ukrainian values won't have, have no beginning or end. Edit 31. Why is this land here? 410, 665, 896. It was supposed to be introduced into the Hall, but not by the three deputies who wanted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u290	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u291	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u292	Ten seconds. I will ask you, Mr. Head, to thank you, to depart from this. The Regulatory Committee should conduct investigations. Colleagues, and then when the era of MPs and law enforcement ends.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u293	Let me finish. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Trebushkin Ruslan Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u294	Good evening, Your Honor Chairman. Good evening, everyone. Is it really not clear why we should be in such a hurry? Why pass Law 2047-d with a violation of the Rules? I understand that the Servants of the People want to do a lot of useful things. But such is the saying that it is necessary to catch fleas in haste and on one other occasion. I think it's better not to rush, to move from quantity to quality. And I'm sure the entire Ukrainian people will thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u295	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u296	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill is very important to our nation. Money is taken from the bandits and surrendered to the state. That's very good. But I would like them to take into account the wishes of the people who approach us in the districts. These are the elderly, the gray people who say with their heads silver, "Children, help me! We've been living for 50 years, 40 years as a family, and Grandpa's dying, and we have to transform the house into a grandmother and pay 20,000 dollars." Where did the pensioners get that kind of money today? At least that's the norm to take into account and allow people to transform the housing that they built half a century ago. Thank you. I believe that today the majority will hear not only our team, but all the pensioners who are suffering from this cable bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u297	From "Serve of the People" for reasons of who? Getmants, Getmants Danilo Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u298	Dear colleagues! Finally, this epepoch with Law 2047 is coming to an end. We've all come a very hard way together. The path that was a test of strength for someone is a test of the standards that we declared in the elections. And I'm happy that we've come this way with honor. Today we have changes to the Tax Code, which are now practically fully agreed upon by the Supreme Council and which are destroying one of these corrupt schemes that has been introduced and worked for the past government. This is the first step towards destroying the order that we all hate. I urge the Hall to support our bill and vote with a green button. Thank you, everyone, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u299	Dear colleagues, I will ask everyone to prepare for the vote. There was a proposal to support the 664. Yes, I'm handing over this question to the reporter. Please. Amendment 664.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u300	Dear colleagues, we had a discussion as to whether the administration could be available or not and free of charge. And there's an offer to take into account the law of our esteemed colleague, Potterenko. But as the text of the bill already exists, it will need to be technically corrected. If you'll excuse me, I'm going to read it under the transcript so that it's fully accounted for and that I don't need any more votes and legal and so on. In section I of the bill, in paragraph 2 of sub-paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u301	In the microphone, you're not heard, Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u302	Paragraph 24, 25, 26 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 read: "Access to introduction, verification of information to the Single Base is done free of charge. Electronic information on the market value of a real estate object is available free of charge. ” In such an editorial way, this will be in line with the law and we ask that it be taken into account. And we thank all our colleagues for joining this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u303	But, dear colleagues, I very much hope that this is not the kind of adjustment that was made the night before the budget, that there are no hesitations here, I'm sorry. It's free! [[B in m in s a l in]] The important thing is that it is, indeed, free of charge, respected colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u304	The only request. with the technical legal rights of others, which will allow for a balance in the text of the bill according to this law. Dear colleagues, if I may ask you to prepare for the vote. It's about the 664 vote in an editorial that was read by the reporter, but with further technical legal rights on the text of the document. Please support and vote. [[19:16:35]] For 330. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u305	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to invite all the national deputies into the hall. Let's go to the vote for the bill. You're invited. What, Jaroslav Ivanovich? You're invited. I'm sorry, I'm putting to the vote a motion for acceptance in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Take it off. No, 31st, 32nd shot. No, Stepan Ivanovich, they're not filming. So it's just been turned on, supported. No, it's not. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the elimination of the corruption scheme in the field of registering information from reports on the assessment of real estate objects and the transparency of the implementation of property (registration number 2047-d). Please support and vote. [[19:18:17]] For 338 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, another law, very short, wait, don't break up. One is very short. I think it'll be quick. Jaroslav Ivanovich. "The Servant of the People" - 229, "The Opposition Platform for Life" - 23, "The European Solidarity" - 20, "The Fatherland" - 14, "For the Future" - 15, "The Voice" - 17, "the Non-Factional" - 20. Decision taken. A moment of motive is the Ironman. And then we go to the next bill, it's very short, it's 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u306	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for your support and for all the factions that have submitted to this bill and have insisted on drafting. But separately, I want to thank the members of our profile committee, who, let's say, were wrongly accused of being delayed. All our committee members, all 32 of them were working on drafting this bill, and they made it so progressive. Thank you again, and I hope that we will continue to be the same in this kind of vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the prevention and opposition of political corruption (registration number 2336). It is suggested that we consider the simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[19:19:56]] For 281 Decision taken. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Rahmanin Sergio Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u308	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, this won't be long. Your opinion is proposed in Bill 2336. The law is not complicated, the law is up - to - date, and it is very helpful. It's about updating the system of financing political parties. As you know, in the 15th year, a whole series of changes were made to legislation that made the financing of political parties more transparent, on the one hand; on the other hand, the practice of application has identified a whole range of shortcomings. In fact, our bill is designed to remedy these shortcomings. First. It is proposed to remove the paper reporting of political parties. NAZA is now hand-in-hand handling, screeching piles, pounds of paper reporting. We suggest that we make this report electronically, which, in principle, in the 21st century seems to make absolutely sense. Secondly, we propose to make changes to the party's reporting approach. Because today, in manual mode, NAZC regulates, and it regulates often-toughly, which is exactly what information the political parties have to submit to the relevant authorities. To solve this, we're going to unify this system. Third. Discriminatory requirements for contributions to party funds are removed. There is now a rule that, if a person has an unpaid tax debt, the contribution is confiscated and the person is fined. In real-time, you don't even know that you have a tax debt at the time of payment. And often more densely for two bracelets of formally unpaid tax debt, she will receive administrative delinquency, an administrative protocol. Finally, we propose to make the party's funding and reporting system logical, consistent. The bill, once again, is simple, easy and very useful. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u309	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u310	There's a little warning in GNEU. But I think they'll be cleaned up during the procedure before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-05-m1.u311	Dear colleagues, I understand your motives. Can I hear them, Nestor Ivanovich? I got it. There is a proposal not to listen to the committee, not to have a discussion, but to go to the vote. The position of the committee is indicated in all of you. Did I get it right, Nestor Ivanovich? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent and combat political corruption (registration No. 2336). Ready to vote? Everybody ready? Please support and vote. [[19:23:37]] For 305 Decision taken. No, no, not at all. Dear colleagues, I suggest we cut back on the preparations for the second reading. I bet you a vote: according to the second part of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I propose that you cut off the number 2336 for the second reading of the bill. Please support and vote. [[19:24:28]] For 279 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for the work I have done, for the constructive work I have done, and for the fact that everyone really wants to fight any corruption. Thank you. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
