ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please come into the hall and take your seats. To the leaders of the faction of the request: to ensure the presence of the people’s deputies. And I'm going to the machine. Colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues! At the request of two MP factions: "On the basis of article 27, paragraph 15, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we request that we declare a recess in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but replace it with a speech from." Colleagues, everyone in the hall? Dear National Deputies! National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. Please place your cards. Everybody ready? Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[16:05:34]] 352 national deputies registered. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, a statement came from two factions offering a break, but a replacement for Jan Zinkevich. Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask. Today we sent a letter to the faction -- a draft decree to create a special committee for veterans. I want to remind you that this decision was taken jointly by the preparatory group. And so we ask that we put our representatives on this committee as soon as possible so that we can start our work. And please make the order, the vote, the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our consideration of matters of the order of the day. The next question is the order of the day 1062. You have been handed over a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to improve the protection of the rights to form semiconductor products. I would like to consider the bill in short notice. Please support and vote. [[16:07:19]] For 227 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolana Andriyev, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, good afternoon again! By Law 1062, we propose to improve the protection of intellectual property rights in semiconductor products. What are we talking about? Integral microschemes, LEDs, transistors, and much more are among the most widely known semiconductor products. Compilation of an integrated microscheme from various elements is an intellectual work that must be protected by the state, as well as any property right. You know very well that integrated microschemes are used in the manufacture of any electronic devices. And the development of its own electronics and inventions in Ukraine is not possible without the protection of the right to exclusive commercial use of development results. This protects intellectual property rights and Bill 1062. What we specifically propose is to establish in legislation that the right to exclusive commercial use of the micro-scheme you have developed will last 10 years from the first commercial use of the product; to allow for the use of semiconductor products, including micro-schemes, for analysis and study of the concept without commercial use. This will contribute to innovation and technical education; simplify the conditions for applying for registration and allowing applications in electronic form, because our goal is to simplify life for businesses and inventors. The effective protection of intellectual property rights for commercial development is the basis for the development of innovation and investment in Ukraine. So please support Bill 1062.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u5	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u6	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, my greetings. The Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on 6 September considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving the Protection of the Rights to Design Semiconductor Products (No. 1062) and came to the following conclusions. What are integral microschemes and why are they needed by my colleague to discover quite substantively. But more specifically, it has to be said that the protection of intellectual property in a country that aims to industrialize, which aims to create 1 million jobs that are intended to provide high-tech exports, is critical, extremely important. And it's very important for us to support this law in order to ensure the intellectual property rights of micro-scheme manufacturers. As a result of the discussion, Ukrainian national deputies decided to submit draft Ukrainian Law No. 1062 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But the result of the first reading is to adopt as a basis and as a whole, as a law, with technical legal work. We also point out that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, notes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the following considerations and suggestions. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy concluded that the draft act did not reveal corruptive factors. Accordingly, the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Therefore, a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u7	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up: Two for, two against factions. The word is given to Shevchenk Eugenia Volodymyrovich faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u8	Shevchenko Eugenius, "Serial of the People" faction, the city of Zaporozhye. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. Because it harmonizes Ukraine’s legislation with the European Union’s legislation. And so when we deal with issues related to lending, cooperation, it will be easier for us to represent our interests internationally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u9	Thank you. We'll invite you to join us for a speech, Mr. Nina Petrovna, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u10	Thank you, sir. Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa. On the rostrum, Princely Nicholas, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, regarding the substance of the bill. I would like to point out that it is part of the list of commitments made by Ukraine, declaring its intention to move towards membership in the European Union and we have many more laws ahead of us. But the position of this bill is similar to that of the transitional bill No. 0899, which was introduced by the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and worked at the Committee on Education and Science under the leadership of Spyowakovsky, the previous calling. That is, according to the regulations, Bill 1062 was not to be registered, but the Supreme Council would continue to work on Bill 0899. In general, the focus of this issue, simply for the sake of self-explanation, on which the President declared this bill urgent, is somewhat questionable. The project proposes to improve the registration process for the topography of integrated microschemes. At the same time, we now have 13 such topographs, the last of which was registered in 2012. That is, in principle, such an phenomenon that we improve does not exist, but the bill is of a purely technical nature, most of it refers to replacing outdated terminology with more up-to-date implementation of the rules of the Association Agreement with National Legislation. So we will support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u12	Thank you. The word is Schrom Aloni Ivanovni, a faction of the political party "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u13	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u14	Vadim Evgeniovich Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u15	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I agree that this is essentially a technical bill and it is actually developed in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Topography of the Semiconductive Products Agreement on Association between Ukraine and the European Union. In particular, the project’s position on the term of protection reflects the text of article 227 of this covenant. Colleagues, this bill includes the approval of a central executive body that ensures the formation of state policies in the field of intellectual property. And the position of representatives on intellectual property of so-called patent trustees. The bill also provides for the possibility of applying for registration in electronic form, including electronic signature. But this project contains a number of editorial flaws that can complicate its practical implementation, such as congregation for registering errors. So, of course, we're going to be proposing that this bill be practical and practical to help those who are involved in this area of intellectual property. "Paternity" in the first reading supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u16	Thank you. The word is given for "against" by Alexander Sergiyovich Koltunović, factions of "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u17	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Yeah, we've really been looking at this bill on the Economic Policy Committee. We have some comments and suggestions, and so the request under the transcript, Mr. Head, to you to conduct it through the first reading. And I also want to add that really (0899) was voted by the previous call in the first reading, and in fact, as we were told from the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the European Commission's conclusion on the draft law was even reached. So actually, the request to support in the first reading is about taking into account the comments that were there, and also our suggestions that will be further developed. The Opposition Platform for Life faction will support the draft law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Is there anyone else who would like to speak out of motive? No, it's not. If not. The question has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 1062) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of rights for the design of semiconductor products. Please support and vote. [[16:17:15]] For 333 Against 0. Hold on to three. Decision taken. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Show by factions: Servant of the People – 227, Opposition Platform – Life 20, European Solidarity – 22, Parenthood – 15, Future – 17, Voice – 16, non-fractional – 16. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have put to the vote a proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of a bill (registration number 1062) amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of the right to form semiconductor products. Please support and vote. [[16:18:25]] For 306 Thank you, the decision is made. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services (Registration No. 1053, 1053). Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:19:18]] For 263 Thank you, the decision is made. 263 – against – 2, held – 51. Let's move on to the short-term draft. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u19	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! I am the author of the bill under consideration today, 1053. During the committee’s work, we made quite a few comments to him, which led to Bill 1053-1, which will be reported to us. My colleague's report. But I want to say a few of these general things why this bill came into existence and why it was needed. I often ask myself why people voted for us by giving an unprecedented state loan of confidence in the history of the nation, creating the largest faction in the history of the state. They voted for us, not knowing us as people on the list, seeing them for the first time, but they voted, I think, for the time of lies to end once and for all for our country. What is the age of lies? The age of lies is when an official takes bribes. The age of lies is when the performer throws away this official. The age of lies is also when you're in a store, in a big shop in Chrystec, making a check from a natural person who is an entrepreneur, or making a fake check, or when a big business uses a natural person who is a way of tax evasion, it's just as much corruption as government corruption. And I'm convinced that big business can't do that, and I'm convinced that big business is our partner in building a strong economy with you. And that's why we offered an electronic check, a new accounting system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u20	Please give me two more minutes, because Danilo Alexanderovich is both a reporter and a committee representative and a co-reporter in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u21	Thank you. They offered a new accounting system – an electronic check that frees taxpayers from the need to buy a register of accounting transactions, to report hard, to keep reports, that is, it's a new step for a state in a smartphone, which is a new step that will easily and without hindrance allow entrepreneurs to build a "white" business. We've had a lot of meetings with representatives of different sectors of the economy in the pre-election period and since we became deputies. In general, the first general request from any business is to create the same conditions. Because you can't do a business that wants to go in and work white, work white. Why can't he? Because they all work in the dark because they all use these schemes more or less dirty, legal or indirect, gray or completely black. We are obliged to create these standards with you. We owe you the opportunity to enable Ukraine's economy to develop "kill" by paying taxes -- smart taxes, non-burden taxes, but paying taxes rather than giving preference to those with better tax lawyers. It seems to me that the end of the lie era is, for the first time, the end of the lie on the part of the state, but not least, it's the end of these fake double checks that appear in the big stores in Krestletick. It seems to me that this bill is one of the steps towards this. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u22	Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. The word for the report is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Vladiny Darya Artemovna. That's the alternative, that's what she's reporting with an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u23	Good afternoon, dear Mr. Head, good afternoon, dear colleagues. You're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, which is the registration number 1053-1, which is the alternative mentioned. This alternative bill has taken into account the wishes of business representatives, it's also worked in our working groups. He's putting in electronic checks, and he's also going to get rid of the need to apply our traditional R.R.O. In general, the bill is aimed at implementing measures aimed at removing cash from the shadow of the cash flow and at bleaching the circulation of goods. It also has an alternative bill, it has the same motivation with Project 1053, but it takes into account some of the wishes of business representatives and our colleagues who were working in working groups. We propose to provide for applications other than the traditional RROs, which are now foreseen, are also programmed RROs, as well as simplification of the registration procedure of RROs, increased responsibility for violating the requirements of this law, compensation for consumers of part of the amount received as fines, i.e. financial sanctions. In addition, the bill amends certain laws of Ukraine relating to the regulation of settlement transactions. In particular, we are invited to amend the Ukrainian Law on State Regulations for the Production and around of Ethylene, Cognac, and Fruity, Alcoholic, and Tobacco. The problem of shadow business has a negative impact on the development of our economy, so these bills are specifically aimed at detining and legalizing our business. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u24	Thank you, Darya Artemovna. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against the factions. But. Two against, two against, not the way we do. Janchenko Galina Igorovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u25	I'd like to give my colleagues a word. Can I go to the next one, then pass it to me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u26	Sorry. Is it possible to pass the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u27	Please come out to the rostrum. Tzabal Vladimir Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, if it's very easy to talk about this bill, it's a bill that we're transferring to ordinary computers: telephone, board, other devices. This is definitely a step forward for dijitalization, this is exactly a step forward to create a state in smartphones. But at the same time, this bill introduces certain restrictions on entrepreneurial activities, and we're promoting the application of the RRO. If we can put this system in place with you to make it work, it'll be good, it'll help our entrepreneurs not to spend too much money on buying old equipment, it'll just load it onto the phone and use it. So it's very, very important to work on these bills for the second reading, to take into account all the comments that are in business, and most importantly, to give our government a task in order to get it into force in exactly six months or when this law comes into force, it was introduced, and it wasn't an extra burden for our entrepreneurs, but rather, help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u30	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Voronko Oleg Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People" is finally invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u31	Good day, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Presidium, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs has received numerous letters from business representatives to support the bill with registration number 1053-1, 1073, from the Ukrainian Association of Electronics Manufacturers, which has united the interests of more than 30 domestic producers throughout the country. As soon as possible, the adoption of these projects will allow to significantly remove goods from the shadow of the market, significantly increase consumer protection, allow legalization, distance trade, and detiny the circulation of cash in general. The Association of Ukrainian Importers of Domestic Electronics. The largest domestic retailers and importers of household technology, such as Eldorado, Foxtrot, Comfy, are also major distributors of household technology, which are major taxpayers. The European Business Association, the Association of Information Technology Enterprises of Ukraine, the Association of Importers and Distributors of Motor Components, the Public Association of the Pharmacy Professional Association of Ukraine and others. The committee at its meeting on September 6, 19th, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council draft laws with registration numbers 1053-1 and 1073 as a basis and as a whole as laws of Ukraine with technical and legal rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u32	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u33	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The need to expand the use of accounting registers, called RROs or simpler, is discussed with business for years. And there have been working groups in the previous call committee on a number of occasions. And since, according to the legislation in force, including the law we are currently considering, articles 9 do not use only those entrepreneurs whose income does not exceed 1 million dollars per year, they made absolutely sense of it all the time. That we're ready, but the price of RRO is unacceptable, from 4 to 15,000 dollars. Ready, but the responsibility for the violation of the RRO is extended and does not correspond to the current steps of liberalisation in other areas. Ready, but the actual checks of the control body end, "Let's try to solve the issue." So the main requirement of business is that you set civilized and even rules in what I've listed. The same decision was to be made for the registration of accounting transactions through a simple gadget – a smartphone that could be loaded into the program, and this software product could provide almost all control functions. We haven't seen one of these, and we don't even have one of those software products that we would see on the committee. Either provide entrepreneurs with classic RROs with a minimum set of functions at the expense of budget costs, with progressive compensation for their costs or on the basis of payment to an entrepreneur of a single tax. By the way, we've had a very clear discussion with the Ministry of Finance of the previous government. And there was this experience in small countries where even such money is a huge burden on an entrepreneur. And this kind of fiscalization was introduced by Bulgaria, and we studied their experience. What do we got?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u34	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u35	In fact, the committee's working group has worked hard on the bill and 1,053-1 for much better than the main one. But the definition of the software RRO does not have a definite reading. This is the program that we're talking about, which can be installed in any gadget, it's not a software solution, it's a software solution, it's a software complex that can sell new manufacturers that will appear on the market instead of classic RROs. And even worse, there's no simplification. We said that the entrepreneur should be responsible only for the issuance of the check, or the fiscalization of the accounting operation and nothing else. Everything else, its responsibility must be solved automatically by a software product that processes all the fiscal data on the central control server. So that's why we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u36	Nina Petrovna, with all due respect, but the rules have been more than a minute. Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u37	And lastly, we're just going to have the opportunity to discuss one more bill, we don't agree with financial sanctions that just don't anticipate relief and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u38	Thank you. Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, faction of the political party "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I certainly didn't think I'd be calling, speaking out of this rostrum, to support the position of the faction "European Solidarity". But here we are exactly the same people, because there is politics, and there are real things. And if we're talking about a real economy, there's a position of big business that we just heard about from this rostrum, and there's a position of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses, and I have to repeat what I said at the committee meeting. And 1053, and even 53-1, which is worked out, but I don't think it solves all the issues. And 1073, which we're going to look at next. These are two draconian bills that, under the good reason for detinizing the economy, create another problem, because Tinning, and I think everybody understands it doesn't start with small and medium-sized business, the tinning of the economy starts with customs, starts with tax. These two bills, but now we're talking about 1053, we're kind of giving a good idea of the state in the smartphone, we're giving an opportunity, first of all, to do extra tax work, it's like chamber checks, but we're not canceling the opportunity to go out after applications and check, as they say, "slash" the business in the normal mode, on the other hand, we're demanding that we do an RRO for those who are not supposed to do it today. And the main thing before any total fiscalization was to put order in tax and customs. And it wasn't just changing people, it had to be demonstrated that customs and taxes work differently. So far, small and medium-sized business there has been standing in front of the Supreme Council today, and talk to it because you work. And a lot of people in this room came from small and medium-sized businesses, and they work here. So the "Fatherland" faction won't support this bill and warns that small and medium-sized businesses are waiting for our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u40	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u41	If she's against him, I'm worried we'll have what Ukraine once had called "Tax Majdan." I urge you not to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u42	Thank you. Will they be willing to make further excuses? If not, then. The Gehtzians. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u43	I would like to stress that the proposal for adoption of the bill came from business itself, from business itself, from business itself, is the first. And the second is that there's no way that the individuals who are entrepreneurs, who are really representatives of small business, are touching this bill. Everything established for them by law is preserved and their status is not violated. We stand up for their interests. But a large business that uses a single tax to evade is an unacceptable phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u44	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. Everybody ready? I'm voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1053-1) amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services on the Detining of Settlements in Trade and Services. Ready? I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote in the first reading and on the basis. [[16:39:20]] For 257 Thank you. Decision taken. For 257, against 40, holding 50. Decision taken. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Dear National Deputies! By factions, please turn on. People's Party - 323, Opposition Platform - For Life - 2, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherhood - 0, Future - 3, Voice - 17, non-fractional - 3. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1053-1) amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of accounting transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services" on the detinification of trade and services accounts. Please support and vote. [[16:40:41]] For 241 Thank you. Decision taken. 241 – against – 25, held – 68. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come up with a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Childhood of Trade and Services (Registration No. 1073). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill by summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:41:26]] For 263 Against 7, holding, 56. Thank you. Decision taken. Let us now consider making changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Childhood of Trade and Services. The report invites the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich. Since he is both a representative of the committee and, in fact, a co-reporter, I offer to give him four minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u45	Thank you. I would like to begin by developing certain myths that are echoing in this room about these two interconnected bills. 1073 relates to 1053-1, since you know the requirement of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which is amended only by individual laws, by laws amending the Tax Code. So they're divided into two. First, about testing e-check software. The head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, who can report on the state of testing. The system is tested on real businesses, on real businesses, and ready for implementation. But nevertheless, we're allowing this system to work for another six months before the law goes into effect. And three months of the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare all the sub-legislative acts necessary for the implementation of this act. Financial sanctions. Today, we have a financial penalty of 1 fine for the first offence and a real financial penalty for re-infringement in the area of cash transactions. We're seeing with you, going back to Chrystec, we're seeing with you how this works, unfortunately, it doesn't work. Undoubtedly, entrepreneurs have their reasons not to do so, surely they are sure, let us say, an explanation of why they do so. But I think back to the age of lies, it's over. And if you make a fake check, the responsibility should be real, not conditional. As for the initiator of this bill, it is a white business, if you refer to those who stand before the Supreme Council, please step out and see who stands there in support, not against Bills 53-1 and 73. As for Bill 1073, it contains certain positions that are also going to cause anxiety in the room today, it's called cashback. Let's redevelop the myths about cashbek -- it's the consumer's right to address the controlling authority in case he gets a fake check. And the controlling authority, if this is confirmed, will fine the entrepreneur and pay the consumer the value of the product. All Ukrainian citizens are thus controllers of accounting transactions. And that's absolutely right, because we're all equally interested in our economy being white, both business and citizens, and the state should work and will, I'm sure, work for the same purpose. And cashbek is just one of the manifestations of this kind of politics and this kind of movement. In fact, there are examples in other countries where reports of tax evasion are legalized and promoted by the State. So I'm asking without politics, there's no politics here at all, please support this initiative. I am convinced that power has passed, and beyond power they have been convinced that this is the right decision: to unite in order for the economy of our nation to become white, and I am convinced that business will support us by a hundred percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u46	Thank you, Daniel Alexanderovich. The factions are asking you to sign up: two in, two in, two in. Pauluk Maksim Vasilovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u47	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Ustenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u48	Alexy Ustenko from the rostrum, come out. Welcome to Alexius Ustenko, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u49	Good afternoon, Your Honor! I'll start with just what we came up with and what values we went with. These are the same rules for any business, they all have to work within the same framework, and no one can work "black." Bills 1073 and 1053 actually allow the white business to work transparently, and those who suddenly use black FOP schemes also start to work and pay taxes. In fact, once again, all of Kiev's centers, all of the Internet stores work "black" through FOPs, 30-by-40 checks, 50-to-50 thousand on expensive technology that is produced by the natural person who is an entrepreneur. This certainly needs to be done. It's uncontrollable, and it's a process that will never end unless we adopt this bill. Of course, who suffers from this? White people and those who pay their taxes to the budget suffer. 1073 bill, it certainly allows us to demand a check, demand fair and fair calculations. Today, a Ukrainian citizen is not protected so much that even if a check is issued to him, or if the amount is wrong, he can't give it back, return the goods, and he becomes a hostage of the situation that arises. So I'm asking everyone, if we're in favour of a white business, if we want to get out of the shadows, I'm asking everyone to back up and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u50	Thank you. We invite Belkova Olga Valentinovna, the faction of the political party "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Please pass the word to Andrew Nikolainka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u52	Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko, "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u53	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As far as I'm That's the second series of things we've talked about. Is it worth fighting the black business or the raw business? Clearly, it is worth it. A good bill? In terms of motivation and control, what are we doing? Let's find out. We want to turn all Ukrainians into police, as it were. To the developers, I asked the drafters: Where, in which country does this work? At first, the first working group said, in none, we're such a know-how. Then they said no, in South Korea. I'm telling a story. I worked in South Korea for six years, and I remembered. And they introduced this recently, in the past year. So, in South Korea, before we put this in place and allow citizens to control small and medium-sized businesses, including through such schemes, there was first a tax system, in taxes, where taxpayers don't go to Mercedes, they don't live in opportunities like we have and they have two presidents for corruption sitting in jail. So once again, I say, we have to fight the shadow, but we have to start fighting not at the bottom because Ukrainians control each other, but at the top it's going to be the right thing to do, but let's put the order up. Secondly, we proposed, and what is the world experience? And the world's experience is a little different, it's that people's motivation for control is different. Let's make the lottery that motivates people, if he gets a fiscal check, then he kills him in the system, he has the ability to win something -- a positive. So he's not trying to control it because we know how this system will normally work: the taxpayers have the opportunity to check in further, the Ukrainian as soon as he's turned to something that he wants to get his money, his cash, and then because someone didn't work with him and he didn't get it, he's going to think that the state should. Well, let's get this straight. And why not follow the experience that worked, but follow the experience that works in completely different realities with a completely different level of governmental responsibility? So this is a dangerous story, and again, which offends thousands of potential voters, think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u54	Let me finish. All of it. Andrew Ivanovich, one request, however, if, yes, support should be, if, yes, it is not entirely appropriate. Victor Vasilovich Bondar, MP Group "For the Future" with motives. Sorry, sorry, wait. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. Then "For the Future" and "The Voice" will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I still wanted to ask you to give up the demagogies, because, you know, we've been fiscalizing all computational operations and we've been having this conversation with society over the last few years, and we've been pointing to what's going to happen, and everyone agrees. But there have to be special conditions -- ones, small and medium. You're saying that all we have to do is have large companies, transnational companies. But we don't have kids, we have to increase. We were going to increase the volume for the second group to 5 million annual turnover, not one and a half million, as we are now -- completely different targets. And really if we were to stop smuggling, we wouldn't need to set up an RRO for traders in the commodity markets that you're talking to. We do not need to catch people who earn money for themselves, for families, and for others around us, but for them we try to put conditions beyond our control. If this is software, then all the other reports have to be made directly on the fiscal server where the software is transmitted. Please tell me why to fine an entrepreneur in such a case if he does not report in one day? Or even a report for it. There are many of them provided according to the law. And the fine is the first 850, the second is 4,250. And as for "knocking," excuse me, let's try out how the new system works, because what you said, the tested electronic check -- do you have any idea how you've fooled everyone right now? It's an electronic check that goes from an ordinary RRO to a central server that can verify the citizen. And you're counting it with that fiscal electronic check that we're talking about right now? But these are different systems, we are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u56	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for you, but knockout can only be introduced after the test, after six months, the new system will start working. And we'll see that it doesn't depend on the fact that the entrepreneur really wanted to make a check, not issue a check, and at this point the neighbor won't write a complaint and he won't take responsibility for 150 percent to get 100 from the value of the product. But it's only possible to walk, to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u58	Nina Petrovna, with all due respect, but the rules. Thank you. Victor Vasilovich Bondar, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, the country needs to develop and all registers through cash registers should be more normal than in a civilized world to automatically register with tax service servers, the Ministry of Finance, and then there would be no such issues. Now we're asked that every citizen has the right, there, to tap on another entrepreneur, a small entrepreneur, and he's going to be tested. There should be fuses. And if this whole thing is a structure, the taxpayers themselves, the law enforcement authorities themselves will be looking for friends, relatives, making a massive attack on an entrepreneur: dozens, hundreds of claims that he didn't issue checks or left checks you bring. And what are we going to do in this situation? There should be safeguards to respond to such a situation. And the hundreds of thousands will go up, and the millions will go up, and who will work them? Are we going to stop the FOPs or what are we going to do with them? So the bill needs to be worked out and thought, a transitional period, for example, a year, to start taxing first by adopting these reports electronically, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u61	Yeah. First, let them at least analyze how much information that is, how it's going to be processed, how it's going to be systematized. See who's not registered, who's not using cash machines. And maybe there's a year or two later, looking for a mechanism to control and sanction those who give wrong checks or use them wrong. It's not like we're offering to all Ukrainians today that they're going to get 100 percent of the value of the goods to go and make spam for entrepreneurs who are trying to survive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u62	Victor Vasilovich, the rules. Slavlav Ivanovich Vakarczuk, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u63	Pass it on, please. Thank you. Please give Galini Vasilchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u64	Galina Vasilchenko, faction of the political party Voice. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, we clearly support the progressive things that are being proposed. But we want to point out that there are actually a lot of discussion points right here in these two bills: 1053 and 1073. We supported the first reading of 1053, but we certainly don't support the idea that it should be considered as a simplified procedure at the same time as 1073. We want to point out that there is now, in any case, time and opportunity for entrepreneurs to submit their comments, corrections, proposals, and we also want to hear on the committee more detailed information about the implementation mechanisms themselves, because such information has not been provided. So we're open to these lines and proposals. And first of all, our address is now to representatives of small and medium-sized businesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." Out of the way, out of the way, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, you know that today has started so well, yes, but now some questions have arisen, especially these few bills that have passed. There was always a question in the Supreme Council of Ukraine: who was the proponent of these bills? So here's the question: whose cash machines are you planning on putting on entrepreneurs right now? I have a question about the previous law on semiconductor devices: who's the caterer? You've been asked questions about ProZorro. In fact, who owns this product, and who receives the royals? And you know, you're going to have a lot of questions about these bills, because we know them face to face -- everyone behind these bills. And a very big request to you. When you vote for the laws, ask yourself the same question: Who is behind this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u68	Thank you. With the motive, include Daniel Alexanderovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u69	In fact, the problem in many cases is that our colleagues do not read the suggestions we offer. And that's trouble, actually. Because if we weren't talking about the introduction of software, which, like "Private24," we could jump on the phone and bill all the accounting transactions over the phone, and if we were talking about cashiers, then, really, who would be behind it? And this is about software that is administered directly by the State Tax Service, without intermediaries. And about small business. The risk areas are written directly in the text of the law. Open them, read them, please. No one is fiscalizing a small business. Fiscalized areas that are completely in the shadows. And it's very important to understand that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading on the basis of the draft law (Registration No. 1073) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Detinction of Settlements in Trade and Services. Please support and vote for the national MPs. [[17:01:02]] For 249 For 249, against 25, holding 55. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 222, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 1, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 3, "The Voice" – 19, "The Non-Factional" – 4. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision is made. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. In line with the second article. Dear colleagues, please. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut in half the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1073) on amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Detinction of Trade and Services Accounts. Please support and vote. [[17:02:24]] For 233 233 – against – 41 – held – 43. Decision taken. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I give you my word to read out the statements that have come to the fore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, a number of statements regarding attendance and voting have come to the fore. In particular, from the National Deputy Schol. Please take into account my presence at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For good reason, he failed to register at the right time. Next, from the People’s Deputy Zuba. Please count my vote in favour of Bill Nos. 1050 and 1062. The card didn't work. National Deputy Nalotov Dmitry Alexanderovich. A map did not work during the morning and evening meetings on September 10, 2019. According to Raducci's National Deputy, Mr. Borisovich, during the vote, I did not have a button to deal with draft Ukrainian Law No. 1062. Please consider my vote "yes." National Deputy Dubnov Artem Vasilovich. During the vote for Bill 1062, my vote card on the Council system was not working. Please count my vote for. Next, from the national deputy sketchka's statement. Please count my pro vote for Bill 1062 because the card didn't work. From the People's Deputy, Neklud's statement. Please consider my pro vote for Project 1062 as a summary procedure. Next. By the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zmerenecki. Please count my vote in favour of draft Ukrainian Law No. 1069 – the button didn't work. And also from the national deputy of Aleksisiychuk Alexander Vasilovich. Please list my vote in favour of the bill (registration number 1050), the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to reduce the number of activities that are subject to licensing. The reason was a technical malfunction. There's still a statement about creating an interfractional one, isn't there? A statement was also made about the creation of an Interfractional MP compound called Equal Opportunities. Pursuant to article 60 with the "prim" badge. The Ukrainian Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine informs you of the creation of the National Deputies of Ukraine on September 3rd this year of the Interfractional Union of Equal Opportunities. The head of the Inter-Fraqational Union of Equal Opportunities were the Ukrainian National Deputies: Bardina Marina Olegovna, Žmerenecki Oleksy Sergiyovich, Ionova Maria Mikolayevna, Kondratuk Olena Konstantinovna, Sowsun Inna Romanovna. The goal of the Inter-Fraqational Union of Equal Opportunities is to improve the status of women in society, to revitalize social dialogue and so on. Well, the information's coming in. Welcome, welcome, interfractional union.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u72	Welcome, everyone. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been asked to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts regarding the first-line measures for the reform of the prosecution's organs (registration number 1032). It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:06:37]] For 225 Against seven. We're holding on to 50. Decision taken. Yes, the decision is made. Yes, 150 was necessary, colleagues. Decision taken. For this reason, the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovic, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u73	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Bill No. 1032, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent, was about to amend some of the legislative acts on the first-line measures taken to reform the Public Prosecutor's Office. The point is that, unfortunately, in our country, prosecutors still do not exercise the authority and respect that ordinary citizens place on them. The reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office, which took place since 2014, with the adoption of the new Prosecutor’s Act, has not led the prosecution to become more open to professionals. On the basis of their professional knowledge, they may claim to serve as executive officers in the prosecutor’s office on the basis of their experience. If even a high - level expert wants to take office in the prosecutor’s office, he is forced to go from the very beginnings of the Office of the Prosecutor’s Office. In addition, there are two authorities in the Public Prosecutor's Office who, unfortunately, have discredited themselves and have shown their complete inability to ensure normal functioning, a selection of expertise within the Public Prosecutor's Office. This is about the Qualification and Disciplinary Commission of Prosecutors and the Council of Prosecutors of Ukraine. Yesterday, at a meeting of a profile committee, the public pointed out that the two organs, unfortunately too large, had become a model of not entirely good faith. Although they were supposed to provide a professional level of prosecutorial authority. The bill also proposes the abolition of the Special Military Prosecutor's Office, while granting the Attorney-General the right to create specialized prosecutors. At the level of the Attorney General's Office, which is proposed to replace the Attorney-General's Office at the level of prosecutors of regional prosecutors and district prosecutors. In fact, it is proposed to change the structure of the prosecutor’s offices and temporarily suspend the work of the qualified commission, both the prosecutors and the Board of Prosecutors, in order to ensure that the prosecutor does so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u74	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u75	In order for the Attorney General of Ukraine to determine by his orders the order of election for these positions, the order of attraction to disciplinary responsibility. That is to say, the bill aims to ensure greater efficiency in the activities of the prosecutor’s offices and the measures involved in suspending the activities of the Procurator’s Qualifications Commission and the Council of Prosecutors, are temporary and justified by the need to provide professional, professional, responsible treatment of prosecutors for their duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u76	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Protection of the Monastery, Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u77	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! Your view today is one of the most important laws in the field of law enforcement, namely with regard to relaunching the prosecutor’s offices. Draft law amending certain legislative acts on the first-line measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office (registration No. 1032). A committee of profile at its meeting had considered the bill, and it envisaged changes to a number of codes and profiles. The main innovations of this bill are, of course, the creation of a new structure for the prosecution's organs after the re-certification of prosecutors. One of the issues that has also been discussed hotly on the committee is the elimination of the military prosecutor's office with the simultaneous granting of the Attorney-General's right, the right to create specialized prosecutors on the rights of the structural unit of the office of Henprocuror, district and district prosecutors. A system of assessing the quality of the work of prosecutors is also in place, and all experts have been paying attention for many years. The project also provides for a temporary suspension until September 1, 2021, of the powers of the Procurator's Training and Disciplinary Commission, etc. There was a working group working on the committee that worked hard on the text of the bill and worked out its proposals, which were given to each of you. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the first-line measures taken to reform the prosecutor’s office (No. 1032). Take as a basis and generally taking into account the Committee's proposals and further technical and legal developments. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u78	Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in factions in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in,
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u79	Thank you. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u80	Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u81	Please give the word to the Lord of the Book.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u82	Mikola Knieżicki, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u83	Thank you. At first, the good news is that the court in Kharkiv has returned the brochure Zhukov's name Grigornka is good news. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, I'm here for the prosecutors to be changed. Since we've voted for him, they'll all be state by state, like one, obviously a lot of people don't like prosecutors. Next: we're in favour of being fairly recruited, but the bill takes it away, the bill actually repeals the reform of the prosecution, which was a condition for giving us a visa-free regime. In fact, this bill, which builds the dictatorship of one person, is a prosecutor. What else are the shortcomings? The recruitment of prosecutors is carried out manually by the Attorney-General, with which it forms itself, and this approach has been declared inadmissible in the opinion of the Venice Commission since October 14, 13, because it copied the Soviet system, did not conform to the principles of the construction of an independent prosecutor's office in democratic countries. We are encouraged to preserve and perhaps reform the procurator’s self - government bodies, but they should be involved in evaluating prosecutors. The Attorney-General has the right to create, eliminate, and not only does he have the right to eliminate, which is contrary to NATO standards, but the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, and the elimination of SAP is the basis for losing the visa waiver mechanism approved by the European Commission on 20 December, to create and eliminate specialized prosecutors only by decision of the Supreme Council. That's why, Mr. Chief, we're in favour of reforming the prosecutor's office. But against the usurpation of power by one man proposed in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u84	Kultenko Artem Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I give the word to Lord Neclaud.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u86	Lord Nekludov, faction of the Political Party "The Servant of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u87	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The purpose of the Procuratorship Act is to clean up the system of prosecutors' bodies from non-decent workers and those who have already deteriorated, who do not want or can't work in the prosecutor's office for some reason, to bring this system into order. What is the purpose of this bill? To make people more free, rich and happy, to the extent that the prosecutor's office works more effectively and in a more legal way, the safer it will be in our society, and the better our lives will be in our citizens. What's the plan? What is proposed? This is the conduct of an evaluation by prosecutors of the level of their knowledge and skills with a view to identifying workers at an inappropriate level to clean up their system. In addition, it is proposed that the authorities of the prosecutor’s office be updated. This is an opportunity for all candidates with a higher legal education and an internship in the field of the right to participate in the selection of positions in all the prosecutor's offices. The Attorney General has a very difficult task to do about. To diagnose the system with what disease to understand how to treat it? On this point, I really enjoyed the speech of the Attorney General on the committee, where he proposed the term "surgeon" for reforming the prosecution's organs. It is also proposed that the work of prosecutors be properly paid, as this will significantly reduce corruption risks and improve the quality of the work of prosecutors. The liquidation is also planned, as has already been pointed out by colleagues, the military prosecutor's office, but specialized prosecutors will be established on the rights of the Office of the Attorney-General, district and district prosecutors. I think all these changes are mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u88	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u89	reduce corruption risks in their work and ensure that prosecutors' quick and effective decisions are made to ensure both the rights of those involved in criminal conduct and of the general public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u90	Thank you. Kožemjakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, the “Father’s Mother’s ” faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u91	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say that if someone criticises those bodies that exist today in the prosecutor's office -- there's a CDC, there's a commission, there's a board of prosecutors, we have to first talk about convictions, criminal cases, well, there's some kind of scandal about them. That's understandable, but it's for the press and the Internet. I want to protect more than 350 professionals, lawyers, those who have been with me since 2011 until the 14th of October prepared and spent through Europe. The Council of Europe, through the Venice Commission twice, through the Council of Europe, we met seven times, here in Ukraine, there were 15 working meetings of all experts who produced this European Ukrainian Law on Prosecutor's Office. After his adoption, everyone admitted, and very many telegrams, Mr. Denis Anatoliyovich Monastirski can see, there are in the archives of the committee written by experts, and they said that this is the best law, one of the best laws in Europe, about the prosecution. Today, the authors of the project offer us to do some things, namely, first, with which I personally and perhaps several of the members of our faction disagree, is the neutralisation of the CDC and the Council of Prosecutors -- once, the release of all prosecutors with violations of the Constitution and all the laws on work on which the grounds are unknown. The Attorney-General's mandate was to release, appoint, create, eliminate, define all of the orders on its own, and that was already in Ukraine, and the consequences, I'm sorry, were very sad. And finally, in a state of war, Ukraine cannot. They can't get rid of the military prosecutor's office, because, sorry, the jackets, that is, the civil prosecutors, they won't go there, into the ATO zone, the OOS, they won't dig up the bodies, they won't investigate these cases.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u93	Because they're not prepared for this. And the military prosecutors, they've been through this before, they know what war is, and they know how to investigate these murder cases, the robbery, the violence, so it's a mistake, and I think the Attorney General will admit it eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u94	Thank you. Mother Grigory Mikolaiovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u95	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, reviewed the draft Law 1032, which deals with the re-launching of the prosecutor's office. We support the idea that prosecutorial authorities need both updates at the level of law and at the level of employees. But the bill substantially strengthens and empowers the Attorney General to administer the Public Prosecutor's Office manually. This is also the exclusion of the four substitutes that were before. At present, the Attorney General may appoint two first deputies and a number of nonrepresentatives. Allowing him to eliminate and reorganize district and district prosecutors, create and eliminate specialized prosecutors on the rights of structural units of the Attorney General’s Office. In addition, after a meeting of the committee, he was given the authority to further strengthen the procurator’s influence on the certification, since in addition to two mandatory stages of its conduct, further steps are proposed. The certification may include other stages of failure, which may be the basis for the approval by the Personnel Commission of decisions on failure by the Prosecutor. The list of such steps is determined by the prosecutions of the tests, which are confirmed again by the Attorney General. Many more are just questions about banning the application of labour legislation, changing the qualification and disciplinary commission of prosecutors into a disciplinary body. If you ask questions about the military prosecutor's office, the Attorney-General wants a new body, regardless of the old law, to have a new body with new powers. "The opposition platform for life" will be gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u96	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u97	In such an order, in such a way as to create a new body, there is a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u98	Thank you. The motive is Victor Vasilovich Bondar, the MP's Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u99	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues. I think, first of all, the leadership of the Attorney General's Office, the district attorney's directors, the district attorneys, should blame themselves primarily for why this bill ended up in the hall again today. Because in the last tens of years, all Ukrainian citizens have applied to the prosecutor’s offices for tens, hundreds, thousands of times, hundreds of thousands of times. Help us to set things straight, to restore the rule of law, to support their initiatives, and to make decisions. We, the national deputies, have been addressing thousands of parliamentary appeals about various issues raised by the legality of the actions of those or other bodies, the law enforcement agencies, and very rarely when the prosecutor’s office reacted properly. They turned most of the prosecution's employees, the top of the prosecutor's office, into a commercial structure that just started making stupid money. And that's why we really need to reload today. Everyone already understands that, I think the citizens support it. We will support this vote. We realize that this must be done, so that at least we can start making arrangements in this country. And then perhaps the prosecution will become really that organ.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u100	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u101	..that people are counting on her to become a guardian of the rule of law in the state, that she will become a truly normal prosecutor's office like the rest of the world. And we support these decisions. You have to tell the order. And start with yourself. And we give the Attorney General the right to make these arrangements, to appoint normal people. But there will also be a demand for everything that will happen over the next six months: for all criminal cases, how they are investigated, what the results of the investigations, for all the cases that have been going on for years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u102	Let me finish. Ten seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u103	For all the cases that have accumulated in the prosecution for decades, there will be no extremes. You get yourself cleaned up, get normal people, get normal people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u104	Victor Vasilovich. Ustenova Alexander Yuriovna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u105	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, let's speak frankly. This is Carthage that needs to be destroyed. What's been going on for the last five years that we've seen in the Attorney General's Office is not the prosecutor's office, and it's that the image of Ukraine abroad has disgraced every day. When I hear from our colleagues, when they say that one person is going to be in charge of the prosecutor's office, it's still happening. We have 1 person in control not only of the Attorney General's Office, but also of the CDC. Let's think about how the decision was taken to remove Nazar Coldicki, when we have, excuse me, representatives, members of the CDC, are people who are drunk driving, who cannot explain their wealth. This must all be destroyed and restarted. But I want to contact my colleagues at the "Serves of the People" faction. You know, we've been in a hurry before. I remember the appointment of the Attorney General in the past when we had a change of law and a change of law in one day. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u106	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u107	Excuse me, can I finish? There is no such thing as reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office under a reduced procedure. We've been through this before, and nothing good ever happened. That's why we're against the reduced procedure in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u108	Thank you. Question completed. Let's go to the vote. National deputies, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Law, registration number 1032, to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the first-line measures taken to reform the prosecutor's offices. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:27:07]] For 287 Against 32, hold on - 25 I thank you all, the decision is made. The draft Law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 243, "Resistance Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 10, "For the Future" - 4, "Voice" - 0. Oh, 14, Voice, 0, non-fractional, 20. Thanks again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Oh, no, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the draft for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1032, to amend some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on first-line measures with reform of the prosecutor's offices. People's deputies please support and vote. [[17:28:19]] For 262 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been given a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws regarding the reinstatement of power (registration No. 1066). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:28:56]] For 263 For -263, versus - 6, held - 64. Decision taken. The bill will be reviewed under reduced procedure. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlov Valeriyovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidium! Dear Ukrainians! It's symbolic that I, Paul Froll, a month ago a 20-year-old civil servant, have the honour of reporting for the first time in my life from this high rostrum this most important piece of legislation after the removal of the inviolability of the reform of the state apparatus. It is the civil servants who are the foundation and the "blood system" of the state machine, which either works effectively for the benefit of the citizens, or stops and prevents Ukraine from developing. Today, according to the executive power, the World Bank is evaluating Ukraine on an equal footing with Honduras and Uganda. This is the worst indicator in Europe. This is similar to the opinion of the country’s officials and citizens of Ukraine. That's why we're either going to overcome the old system today, or it's going to drown us in the swamp. There are no other options. Self-doubt, camaraderie, fair competitions, job shopping, cash collection and transfer to the top, closure for an average citizen, corruption schemes, an austere way of managing, and non-market wages are all flaws of Ukrainian bureaucracy. They are useful to old political elites to the bottom of their pockets. The misadventure in the work of the holder gave the former leadership of the country, which turned the officials into the performers of its hotels. The winners of pseudocontests were determined long before they were conducted according to the criteria of loyalty and loyalty of the Pope. This is a disgrace that we are correcting today. Inefficient top officials after the adoption of this law may be released or transferred to lower positions. But most Ukrainian officials, I've been very convinced of this over 20 years of work, are actually professionals and patriots of our country. If social elevators work, service promotions based on real gains, if wages become marketable, Ukraine will see a new government service – responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u110	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u111	The new government service is responsible, committed to its cause, effective and honorable. The mechanisms for this conversion are set up in the project presented. Individually, conscientious officials have nothing to fear; they will not only keep their positions but will be promoted in the ministry with an increase in wages. I am convinced that this initiative will enable the holder to serve, not politicians, but millions of citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u112	Thank you, Paul Valeriovich. A co-rapporteur, head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! The Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council, considered at its meeting on 6 September 2019 as an urgent draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reinstatement of power (registration No. 1066 of 29.08.2019), which is protocol number 2. By defining the subjects of the legislative initiative’s right, the purpose and purpose of the bill is to simplify the acceptance and release of the public service; to increase the responsibility of government officials for achieving the results of their activities. In fact, for the first time in business, the term KPI (Key Performance Indicator), yes, in this kind of form, will be laid down in law. So government officials will be valued not just for the process they're doing, what they're doing, yes, but for the results they're achieving. And there is also a very important novelty about the possibility of contracting public service and dealing with individual issues raised by the practical implementation of the law to eliminate excessive regulation of social relations. In fact, the committee, after hearing the information of the subcommittee, having found out the position of the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee who were invited to the meetings of the persons we actually had representatives of the National Civil Service Association, was the head of the National Service Agency, Mr. Vaschenko, and having discussed the matter in detail, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with section one, part one, part two, of article 114 of the Rules, the draft Law is to be accepted as a basis and, in general, taking into account the proposals of the committee that you are given, they are available to you. It should also be noted that, at a committee meeting, Mr. Lozinski’s first deputy head of committee and the Ukrainian national deputy, Ms. Skrum, a member of the committee, expressed separate thoughts about the bill. The members of the committee agreed that they had individual thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u114	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u115	The committee agreed that the individual opinion would be announced by the initiators at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council during the consideration of the bill, in accordance with article 30, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules. I don't know how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u116	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u118	I understand that colleagues do not insist on a particular thought. So I'd like to sign up for factions: two for, two for, two against. Colleagues, sign up for factions. Ah, Kultenko Artem Valeriyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u119	I give my word to my colleague Motovilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u120	Andrew Motovlovets, faction of the political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, you are now seeing a new quality, a new speed of work of the Supreme Council. You've chosen a new government. Give new government officials a chance to change their teams. Give me the right to get the best. Give the right to change your own ministries, your own central authorities. Give the customs office a chance to get new people. This bill allows, gives the right to both release and recruit the best people on its teams. This is very important for the development of our bills. Laws are not the end. There are legal acts, they are written by lawyers, they are accepted by the government, this is the chance of all the changes that we're preparing, to continue, it's very important. I ask you to support this bill as soon as possible, and the government and all the authorities are waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u122	Thank you. Maxim Vitaliovich Savrasov, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u123	Please pass the word to Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u124	Ivanna Orestovna Klimpush-Cincadze, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u125	Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! You know, this draft law on reintroduction of power is probably more likely to be called the bill on repealing the reform of the government that we started in 2016. Unfortunately, the authors of the bill seem to misinterpret or simply deliberately ignore European standards and principles of government. These are the rules, these are the principles that all of the countries of the European Union are governed by, I think we all agree, we want. In fact, the bill has several standards that are acceptable and that can be supported. Regrettably, however, they are balanced by an absolute proposal for the invulnerability of every civil servant, a sharp increase in political influence on every civil servant, a destabilization and a parallel structure within the public administration, not a mix of political positions and public service positions, a total breach of institutional capacity and a loss of institutional memory of the public service with the arrival of every new government. This bill does not correspond to the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, nor does it comply with the law of the European Union. We have received substantial comments from OECD/SIGMA from the European Union in Ukraine. And we're going to propose substantively to work out the standards that are proposed in this bill, because otherwise, if we adopt it in this way, we're not going to have a neutral and stable public service with you, we're going to have ministers with you who form teams and are individual, such capable princes, and we're actually going to get you to destroy the democratic principles of real European public service, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u127	In 2016, Ukraine. Moreover, you and I will lose the direct budget support we currently have from the European Union, the expertise and educational support we also have in connection with the implementation of the reform of the public service in Ukraine. "European Solidarity" cannot support this bill, even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u128	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna Shkrum, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u129	Thank you. Dear fellow Ukrainians, Mr. Head! In fact, I'm very, very glad that we're finally back to an important discussion about this reform and reform of government, and public administration as such. Without this reform, I said that when I had the honour to report the State Service Act a few years ago from this rostrum and I will now speak. Without this reform, there will be no positive changes in the country because there will be no one to make it. Today, we have a system that is stricken, often Soviet, often corrupt, often very politicized, and most importantly, on a towel. As fast as we don't try to move with you, yes, and as much as we don't press the gas, and as much as President Greensky and the government have asked us, if the machine on the towel, it won't move. That is why we need to conduct a comprehensive audit and reform the government, the public service, today. And according to the quality of government institutions, we do occupy one of the last places in the world, 110 positions from 140 countries around the world. Therefore, there is no doubt that we need to reform and move on to this reform. Does this Bill 1066 help? There are the right positions, colleagues, but it is systemic and it will not help us. On the one hand, I am very, very grateful to the colleagues on the committee that we have considered the observations of both our European partners and the various factions, and we have listened to each other, and we have found compromise, and we have found in the committee's decision a possibility even to amend the text of the bill immediately. On the other hand, we have a letter from SIGMA today -- it's actually the Venice Commission in state administration in Europe, and it has a lot of weight. And we have a letter from the EU's representative in my hands about what he is asking and strongly recommending that this bill should actually be voted on only in the first reading, in no way on the basis and in general. Because one of the novels of government reform that we've been able to implement is to move towards separating politics from public service and from business. Unfortunately, this bill is now turning government officials somewhat into politicians, and this is a very dangerous story. Therefore, colleagues, I will only ask for this bill in the first reading. We still have a lot of work to do with the whole army of civil servants, today it's 240,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u130	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u131	An army of government services, inspections, authorities, 26 billion dollars spent on pay. 3,000 200 state-owned enterprises, most of which are not working, will have to reform systematically and listen to the government's strategy as they do. Thank you. On our first reading alone, we are ready to support ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u132	Thank you. The Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, faction of the political party "Golos" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u133	Dear Ukrainians! And above all, the esteemed colleagues of the majority factions. I've already been on the committee to colleagues from the "Serial of the People" faction, and I'd like to address you here in this room as well. We all respect Kahu Bendukidze, who said that all reforms need to be made in the first six months, to lay all the fundamental, most important stones of reform. But, friends, when we lay this foundation with a large number of gaps, with a large number of cracks, water will enter sooner or later, another waste, and this foundation will be destroyed. The question of public service is a very important one. And we had one extreme when government officials of corrupts or other unwitting officials hid for 22 months on vacations or in hospital. And it would be absolutely impossible to influence this situation. It was one extreme and it needs to be changed, and here we are exactly your allies. But in this bill, in the way that he was offered to us on the committee, there is another extreme where it is clearly stated that the leader can release his subordinate without commission or conclusions and no analysis. What does that mean? What if someone doesn't like you, unfair leadership, they'll fire you. Guys, we totally support you if anyone has the illusion that we want to put sticks in the wheels. No, we support you, the government you formed to clean up the entire public service as quickly as possible from the corrupters and from the people who sabotaged all the reforms. But we can't absolutely cut off all the conscious, high-quality professionals who have entered the state service in the last five years on these simple terms, but still serve Ukraine. That's why. I'd like to add a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u134	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u135	So my friends, first of all, I want to thank you for not voting on this bill as a whole today. It's very important, we need to work very hard on it. And I'm asking you on the committees, if you see the conclusions of SIGMA, the European Council, the European Union, we need to take them into account. So, friends, we're working, we need the government service. It needs quality, but it really needs to be written very clearly, because it's about 240,000 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u136	Thank you. The word is given to Victor Vasilovich Bondaru, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we strongly support this bill and explain why? In recent years these reforms have caused much trouble in the country, and reform of this public service has also caused much distress — after six months, after eight months, they appoint managers of enterprises of the central authorities and so forth. Then, six months later, they make trouble, chew, no one can release them, the release procedure begins, the courts, the trials, the husbands run off on specific vacations, and so on! After six months, we've been looking for them for a year or two just to get them kicked out of this state service. If we want to put order in place, we act decisively, we stop playing games, we cancel all these procedures that we've invented in recent years, and we put order in the state. I was the minister, I know what it's like to be freed in the night by business leaders who were moving in, sending people out for the morning, representing a new person, and starting to set things straight, and they were handing over materials to law enforcement agencies and forcing them to either sit down, or return money, or something else. And today no one can release or appoint anyone! That's why we support this bill, we give the President a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u138	Let me make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u139	Give me 30 seconds. We give the President a quick order, a quick appointment of central authorities, regional authorities, district administrations, businesses, and order the state in two or three months. In my character, it's absolutely possible to do it and very quickly, Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1066) amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reinstatement of power. People's deputies please support and vote. [[17:47:29]] For 273 Thank you. Decision taken. For 273, versus 23, holding 38. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1066). Please support and vote. [[17:48:16]] For 261 Resisting 39, holding 19. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question. It is proposed that honourable national MPs be included in the agenda of today's plenary session and that they consider today's draft Law (registration number 1043) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure. I'm betting on a motion for inclusion in the agenda of today's plenary session of the draft law, registration number. [[Noise Nodes]] We're putting it in order of the day. [[Noise Nodes]] One minute to talk. Turn on Heraszczenko's microphone, please, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course, "European Solidarity" supports the need for comprehensive reform of the Supreme Council's Rules, and this is not one issue of a five-minute conversation. First of all, we are now trying to violate the Rules harshly when we put a bill into order at the evening session, which is the first. And secondly, friends, we would like to suggest that we quietly bring this bill into the agenda tomorrow, along with another bloc on reform of parliament, and discuss it. And also, my friends, we remind you that among the undeclared same rulings that you have not voted on, the decision regarding the establishment of the Special Committee on Veterans, the Ordinance on the Referral to the Venice Commission of the Seven Bills of President Zelensky to conform them to European norms and standards. This also applies to very important topics of the organization of Parliament's work and we suggest that we discuss them quietly, read them to your deputies. By the way, read the People's Deputies of the People's Servant, even if it were the title of this bill. You know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u142	Thank you. No, colleagues, let's not mislead people first, we don't violate the Rules, we don't violate the Rules. Second, are we still willing to speak or are we bringing it into the agenda? If there is not, please put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda of today's plenary session the draft Act (registration number 1043) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the abuse of the rights of national MPs in the course of the legislative procedure. People's deputies please support and vote. [[17:51:26]] For 239. Thank you, the decision is made. 239, against 57, held 33. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to consider and take decisions today on the draft Law (registration number 1043) to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure. Please support and vote. For the discussion, please support and vote. [[17:52:05]] For 244 Thank you. Decision taken. 244 – against 61 – held – 29. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure against the abuse of the rights of national MPs in the course of the legislative procedure. Please consider this issue with a reduced procedure and recognize it as requiring a vote on consideration and decision-making under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:52:59]] For 241 241 – against – 47, held – 25. Thank you, the decision is made. The report is given by Florov Paul Valeriyovich, a national deputy of Ukraine. Paul Valeriyovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u143	Dear national MPs, the honourable presidency, in plenary mode, we are only working on a third day and the most popular issue in political party opponents of the "Serve of the People" is the subject of parliamentary procedures, and more specifically, it is as if their failure to comply with Parliament's ninth call. In denying this thesis, I want to remind you how our colleagues abused parliamentary procedures in the previous eighth term. I mean, "corrective spam" is the deliberate balancing of the bill by requiring that any amendment taken into account by the committee be confirmed, as well as the possibility for any MP to register a decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council to adopt a law that prohibited the Head of the Supreme Council from signing that act before the decision was put to the vote. This could delay the signing of the adopted law for several months. Now, about the repair spam. I just want to give you a little bit of help. In this year 2019, 2 laws, 2 bills: the language bill and the Electoral Code - the review of these two laws took place: the first to 2 months, the second to 35 calendar days. In doing so, 14 plenary were used. In all, 24 plenary days, 35 plenary sessions, and 95 calendar days were spent. In terms of the cost to the Ukrainians, the budget actually spent 1.3 billion dollars on nothing. And this is because 2,000 amendments to the Language Law and 4.5 thousand amendments to the Electoral Code were made. And now I want to say that this bill is being proposed very briefly. The bill proposes to move on to the discussion of amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u144	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u145	The bill suggests that the Committee's amendments to the Supreme Council's procedural decision, or 150 votes, be discussed. Similarly, it is forbidden for the Supreme Council to sign the acts adopted by the Supreme Council by procedural decision, or 150 deputies. And, just to conclude, the reputable opponents, where abuse is. Where the abuse of parliamentary procedures, where 1.3 billion dollars were spent on two laws?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u146	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u147	Or what we accept and do is what every Ukrainian does, in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u148	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u149	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The Legislature Committee at its meeting on 9 September considered this bill (registration number 1043), which was designated by the President as one of the urgent and ready for urgent consideration for the execution of parliamentary tasks. The draft is proposed to improve the legislative process by amending articles 48, 49, 120, 121 of the Rules of Parliament. To foresee that a certain number of national MPs, the President or the Government may introduce a draft Supreme Council regulation repealing Parliament's decision to adopt a law, regulation or other act as a whole. Also during the second reading of the bill, Parliament’s procedural decision alone may be followed by a discussion of the proposal’s main committee, an amendment with a subsequent vote on its adoption, inclusion in whole or in part. In the same order, the question of consideration of proposals, amendments to the relevant text of an article adopted in the first reading may be raised. It should be said that some inaccuracies were highlighted in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which were considered by the Committee. In particular, we've drawn attention to editorial inaccuracies in the bill, namely in paragraph 1 of the bill, paragraph 1 of the bill, the number 4 is indicated, and the changes refer to article 48, which is indicated in the comparative table, is just a technical error. Nor is it that the formulation of at least one third of the constitutional composition is consistent with the terminology used in the Constitution, which states that “no less than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. The committee therefore adopted the conclusion of the bill. I decided to recommend to Parliament the results of considering these editorial details proposed by the committee. That is, the number "4" should be replaced by "48", the term "not less than one third of the constitutional composition of the people's deputies" should be replaced by "not less than one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". But accept it as a foundation and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u150	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please sign up: two-for-two-again. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, faction. Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u151	Dear colleagues! There's such a French word as "parler," talking, talking. And that's the word that comes from the representative legislative body of Parliament. I mean, parler, talk. To speak, to discuss, to exchange thoughts, to express political positions, to use other opportunities to demonstrate their political position. This is how normal parliaments work. History knows parliaments that worked very quickly. This is the Supreme Council of the USSR, worked very fast in the 1930s. The Reichstag in Germany, at the same time, worked very quickly. Without discussion, they did not need political discussions; they did not need other readings. They had to press the button fast and adopt laws that grew up later, you all know what. A normal Parliament is a procedure. Jurisprudence is a procedure. Which allows us to express our position to the MP, to the political group, to the political faction, and to protect it. So today, as far as I'm concerned, it's, you know, the legal "abracadabra," the abuse of the MP's right to participate in the legislative process. But it's a legal set of words that doesn't make any sense. The constitutional deputy has the right to legislative initiative, to speak from the rostrum, to stand up for his position, including in the form of amendments. You recommend that Parliamentaryism be completely stopped, completely stopped. Stop the second reading, stop the full-time work, and allow the committees to make decisions that have not been discussed anywhere but on this committee. Is this Parliament? Sadly, no. Sadly, no. I really don't want the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u152	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u153	In 2019 he became the Supreme Council of the USSR in 1933 or the Reichstag in the same period. So in fact, when he was speaking with his inaugural, sorry for that word, in a speech by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, he accused the previous Parliament of not listening to the conclusions of the GNEU. GNEU's conclusion: "Return to processing." Mr. Ruslan, be consistent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u154	The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u155	Thank you. I have the right to a replica, Sir Sergio, yes. I'd like to respond. Besides the word "parler," there's another word for "travailler" in French: "work." And I think it's very important that we work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u156	Savchenko Olga Stanislavina, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u157	Good afternoon! Please give the word to Fedor Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u158	Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u159	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to some of the manipulations that are echoing from this rostrum about what this bill is really about. This bill is designed to prevent individual national MPs from taking advantage of their powers. You're right. There's a term in the right that says "abuse of the right." And it is because of the abuse of law that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is very often blocking the adoption of the necessary laws. It blocks the adoption of effective laws. In order to make it impossible for a Ukrainian national MP to question the results of the entire parliament's vote and demand that these changes be lifted. It is not a big deal if 150 Ukrainian national deputies sign in order to revoke the decision of the Supreme Council, this decision will be put to the vote. Besides. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that Parliament is about talking, but we need to speak constructively. Nor should we mislead the people of Ukraine and our constituents. Therefore, in order for Parliament to work effectively and to propose these changes. They're totally normal, totally working, so there's a request to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u160	Thank you. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u161	Friends, you know, five years ago, "green men" captured Crimea, now "green men" are taking over the Ukrainian Parliament. [[th m in s a l i]] And they're actually crossing it out completely. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you will excuse me, this is a duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u162	Irina Volodymyrna, I'm sorry, with all due respect, but I don't think we should compare the national MPs of Ukraine to what we saw in the 14th year. [[th m in s a l i]] This is unacceptable in the Parliament of our State! [[B in m in s a l in]] Turn on the microphone, please. Turn on the microphone, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, I give you my word. Of course! [[B in m in s a l in]] With all due respect! I give my word. Dear colleagues, I give the floor, with all due respect, to Irina Volodymyr, but to compare the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] What Persecution? [[B in m in s a l in]] I give my word. I give my word to Irina Volodymyr's Hero for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u163	Two minutes, please. Dear colleagues, now in this session room we see the Supreme Council of Independent Ukraine becoming the Parliament of the ARC Crimea, where even more so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u164	Give me your word, please. Let me finish, let me finish, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u165	I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to calm down his southern here and not give us the right to protest the opposition. [[Noise Nodes]] Friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u166	Let me finish. Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, now the whole world sees the opposition put on the gallery first, then it's flushed and screamed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Still, even without the adoption of the Code with a cynical title: The opposition to the abuse of the rights of national MPs regarding legislative initiatives is being enforced. Because right now I have the same right as all the representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u168	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u169	I have a right and responsibility from my constituents, just like all the other 426 Ukrainian national deputies, on the legislative initiative, on the alternative bill, on the amendment. And what's really going on right now, my friends, is that you're destroying not just opposition, but parliamentaryism. As friends of Parliament and people with the same rights here, we urge you not to do that. Once again, this bill has even an absurd title, not to mention its contents. Indeed, the law needs to be amended on the Regulations. But what is important is that our Rules be answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u170	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u171	To ensure that the bill does not change from first to second reading to conforming to European standards, standards, and laws. And if you want to improve the Rules, the key thing to do is to have each bill conducted before the second reading, an expert study of the Committee on European Integration, in accordance with European standards. This will be a conformity both with the Constitution of Ukraine and with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u172	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u173	And what you're doing right now, you're crossing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u174	Regulation. Dear colleagues, with all due respect to all the national deputies of Ukraine and to each individual, I would like to remind you that even when we took away the inviolability of ourselves, we have talked about our protection in the Supreme Council Hall of our political position and our actions. But we talked about unacceptable insults in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as elsewhere in our country. [[Applause]] So if we want to be a parliament that unites the state, let us treat our colleagues, both those who are the majority and those who take a different position. I think that's the right thing to do. If we are talking about European standards today, many of the national MPs who were called in the past remember that these proposals were also discussed during the Pat Cox mission. So let's be honest and not twist when we're comfortable - we have one position when it's uncomfortable - another. I suggest we get back to the subject. And welcome to the rostrum. Sorry, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u175	Thank you. Respectable national MPs, respected colleagues, respected viewers! You know, let's go back to the essence of this bill. I especially took the Constitution of Ukraine when I was going to the rostrum. In this Basic Law there are several qualifications for procedural voting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is article 83, articles 85, 87, 89 and 154, which clearly and clearly regulates in the Basic Law that amendments to the Constitution may be passed in the form of a bill of 150 Ukrainian national deputies. The next session may be convened by 150 Ukrainian national deputies. 150 Ukrainian national deputies may vote in favour of the request to the President of Ukraine. I mean, all these votes are clearly defined in the Basic Law, in the Constitution of Ukraine. What are you doing now? You take and correct the second reading either to the second read, or to the second reiteration to the qualification requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine. You don't do that. You can read at least what kind of cognitive dissonance you're going to have here. If you read article 120 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is clearly and clearly stated that the amendment is put to the vote by the initiator. Instead, you are introducing a collective initiator of 150 Ukrainian national deputies. It's no different than you are now doing a collectiveization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And you're actually right now, you're actually taking down every Ukrainian national deputy, especially the high-ranking man who's elected to the election today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u176	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u177	and is a representative of the Ukrainian people. When he went to the polls, he took electoral orders from every district, and he had to implement them. It can only be implemented in the form of amendments to laws and as a subject of the legislative initiative. Conceal yourself, for you will then come to the point that you will be making changes to these insurmountable laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, let's go to the vote. I bet. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, I will. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u179	Dear colleagues, dear friends, Mr. Head of Parliament, I would like to speak on behalf of the MP group "For the Future," if you will, for two minutes, because of the faction's rights. First of all, we have begun to consider this issue from a violation of the Rules. Let us recall that the Rules clearly state that the issue is being addressed at one working session and that decisions are being taken and taken on the matter at another working session. You and I are witnessing a violation of the Rules today. Let us, after all, remember that Parliament is primarily a democratic procedure. Democracy is a procedure, and the democratic procedure in Parliament is compliance with the Rules. I want to remind you that emotion in Parliament is a perfectly normal thing. We have come here to break the corrupt and political system. My friends, I want to remind you of how the political system in the Soviet Union broke down, and who broke it, the direct inclusion of the National MPs' assembly of the Soviet Union, the Sakharov speech, the inter-regional parliamentary group and the discussion, the alternative point of view broke the corrupt political system of the Soviet Union. I want to say that there are a number of deputies here, dozens under the sanctions of the Russian Federation, including almost all the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u180	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u181	And I don't want us to repeat the phrase in this House of our friend, the State Duma of the Russian Federation, Dmitry Grizzlov, who you know, who said that Parliament is not a place for discussion. The alternative point of view in Parliament is to be! And I have a proposition for my head. To the Speaker of Parliament, to all the MP factions and groups, to create a working group that would work all the changes in our basic code of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u182	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u183	Parliament of the Supreme Council And we would go out into this room with a subject worked out and we would remove all the debates in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u184	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today it's about adopting this bill in the first reading as a basis and creating additional groups, I don't think it makes sense, because we have committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this. So the discussion is over, so let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1043) amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine against the abuse of the rights of national deputies in the course of the legislative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and vote. [[18:15:35]] For 234 Against 73, holding on to 27. The draft law was adopted on the first reading as a basis, please indicate the factions. "Serve of the People" – 232, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 2. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the second reading of the bill (registration number 1043) to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules against the abuse of the rights of national MPs in the course of the legislative procedure. Please support and vote. [[18:16:37]] For 237 Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you and I have finally awaited the time when the Supreme Council is sore for the Supreme Council regulations of Ukraine. So I would like to point out, chapter X of article 51 of the Rules, if a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP or a MP, a parliamentary group that presides at a plenary meeting warns this national MP of the inadmissibility of such statements or of the termination of his statement, then let everyone live by the Rules if we are in so much pain for him. [[Applause]] Next. I welcome you to our last question of order of the day. You have been proposed a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on the use of nuclear energy. I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill on short notice. Please support and vote. [[18:18:01]] For 265 Against the 3rd. It's been held up to 48. Thank you. Decision taken. Let us move on to the consideration of the matter in substance. Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Rocksolan Andriyovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u185	Dear colleagues, the main task of Bill 1084 is to increase the protection of Ukrainians from ionizing radiation during professional activities and medical examinations. What do we propose? A couple of major blocks. First of all, more severe uranium mining and processing. This bill introduces a license for mining uranium ore. Why coal miners in the uranium mine can receive radiation and a dose of radiation to order more than the staff of an atomic power station. Licensing can protect these people because it requires the employer to strictly control the maximum dose of radiation and to provide individuals with individual protection, to conduct regular medical examinations, and so forth. We're bringing in. We suggest introducing radiation protection for interns and students at the same level as the staff. The adoption of the bill will force educational institutions to monitor individual doses of irradiation of interns and students and optimize their protection. This issue is not settled at this time, and it poses enormous risks to the health of those who are studying or being trained. Finally, we propose to ban the import, production and use of medical equipment that has too many radiation risks. This is primarily about X - ray machines, where it is not possible to clearly detect and automatically control the radiation dose. The main principle of MAGATES is that the benefits of radiation should be greater than the harm. This isn't about our X-rays at all. According to official data in Ukraine, 30-60-year-olds are using radiation doses that are 100 times the amount of radiation from digital X-rays. I want to point out that it's not about shutting down the X-ray cabinets. The X-rays that were introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u186	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u187	and put into service, they can be used, and new ones have to meet the strict requirements introduced by Bill 1084. Once again, 1084 is a bill for the protection of people and the health of the nation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u188	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Gerus Andry Mikhajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u189	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! The committee discussed a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian laws on the use of nuclear energy (1084). The bill proposes to implement the requirements of Directive 2013/59/Euratom, which is to complement article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Human Beings against Ionising Radiation, with safety requirements that meet modern medical radiological equipment. It is also proposed to add the position regarding the licensing of mining of uranium ore. During the discussion of the bill’s committee, the Ukrainian Ministry of Health introduced editorial regulations. That is, in paragraph 2, paragraph 3, paragraph 2, chapter I, after the word "effective dose", add the word "professional" and then follow the text. This supplement is important because an effective dose of radiation for interns and students who work with ionizing radiation sources during internships and training has 2 millisiberts per year and only have to take into account professional radiation. Such an approach will ensure that an effective dose of occupational radiation is differentiated from an effective dose of radiation in the process of human activity. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a law, taking into account the editorial law that I will read for the transcript: "In paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section 3 and after the word 'effective dose' add the word 'professional' and beyond the text". Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive of the readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you move on to the factions of factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Please sign up. Dirdin Maksim Evgenovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u191	Good afternoon. I'd like to give the word to the Mayor Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u192	Andrew Zupanin, "Serial of the People" faction. Let's get to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u193	Dear colleagues, Ukraine's legislation on the use of nuclear energy in general is in line with the requirements of the Euroat Directive, but there are some differences in the application of individual terms and in separate directions of government regulation in the field of the use of nuclear energy, which needs to be brought into line with the provisions of the directive. The law is relevant and its adoption will ensure that differences between European and Ukrainian legislation are eliminated, as well as the establishment of the only safety standards for the protection of the health of the population and those under professional, medical exposure, the improvement of the effectiveness of radiation safety and radiation protection in the application of nuclear energy in various areas of the economy and the safety of human life. I confirm that this issue has been considered on our committee and that the editorial regulations of the Ministry of Health have been taken into account. The bill was also supported by the Energoatoma, so the request for support and a vote was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u194	Thank you. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, faction of the European Solidarity political party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u195	Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the "European Solidarity" faction is pleased to note that Bill 1084 was prepared and worked out in the eighth call by the deputies of the "Peter Prashenko Block", especially our colleague Dombrovsky and the MPs "The Change Front" by Mikola Bondar, who was then under the number 5550-d, and is now in the agenda as a transitional under number 0912. This bill aims at harmonising security standards and increasing the level of protection of Ukrainian citizens against the threats posed by ionized radiation. Moreover, from everything that the colleagues of the People's Service have said, this bill, and then, and now, because it's completely mirrored by the eighth call, it's an obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to develop and implement a plan for the protection of the population not only to reduce the level of radiation and improve state regulation in the area of production and processing of radiation-threatening uranium ore. I'll confirm that and repeat that. The task is to develop a plan for the protection of the population of Ukraine. I pay attention to the distinguished national MPs, which, in fact, the era of lies has ended. Because accurate reproduction, as our colleague Irina Heratschenko said, "green xerox" which worked today and dozens of other laws that were prepared and worked by the members of the coalition "Peter Prashenko" and "National Front" transferred to this Parliament today, says one thing about the high level of trust that the majority has in the MEPs of "European Solidarity" to our political power and not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u196	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u197	and an equally high assessment of the previous works of the European Solidarity faction. That's why, of course, we're going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u198	This is Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u199	Good evening, dear fellows! Lubinets, MPs for the future. Well, it's a really nice bill, we're worried about the nation -- it's all good. But I have one simple question: Why was it written in such a good bill to introduce an additional license to extract uranium in Ukraine? I would like to inform the authors of the bill that the same license as in article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Nadra is issued by the State Service of Geology and Nadar of Ukraine. And you, along with this government service, are introducing an additional license that will be given to a company that will come to Ukraine from the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate. You know, we have this impression that there's just some investors in line who want to go into Ukraine to invest, and that's huge costs and make Ukraine independent of nuclear fuel. And I could say, well, by these rules of concern about population, unfortunately, here's one standard that's directly corrupt, and yet you've prescribed it. So today we've been looking at a lot of drafts, well, clearly, conveniently, for ProZorro, semi-conductors are suitable for manufacturers of semiconductors. Please tell me, whose lobbyist law are we currently considering? Who would be better off if investors didn't come in? You're by the logic of deregulation, which we're all talking about, we're voting against a different license, and in this law we're introducing an additional state inspection and an additional license. So thank you and please don't support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m1.u200	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on the basis of the first reading, registration number 1084 on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the use of nuclear energy. Please support and vote. [[18:30:03]] For 293 Against three, holding on to fourteen. Decision taken. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut the draft for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1084) on amendments to certain Ukrainian laws on the use of nuclear energy. Please support and vote. [[18:30:51]] For 264 Thank you. Decision taken. For -264 versus -1, hold -40. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. We have exhausted the order of our meeting today. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Good evening. Good-bye.
