ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow officers, please come into the hall and take up jobs, prepare for registration. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please let the Secretariat know that the registration is about to take place. So, dear colleagues, please register. [[10:04:34]] 324 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague of Natalia Volodymyrovna Katzer-Buchovsky. Welcome to Mrs. Natalia's birthday. [[Applause]] I would also like to report that there have been two motions for a recess that is ready to be replaced by a speech. Also after yesterday’s break. And, colleagues, I'm going to make one brief message. Yesterday we witnessed, I think, a little abuse of the law when twice during the day we took real breaks during the consideration of the important Language Law. I've explained this position in detail, and I want to tell you that I consider it an abuse of rights, and I want to point out that the Rules state that the head can announce a break of up to 30 minutes, it could be 5 and 10, not 30. And I'm addressing the faction's heads to limit myself to real break initiatives. If these initiatives go, I'll have the right to limit them to 5 or 10 minutes. But in general, I would like to, I understand that there is an electoral process going on that you can come to the rostrum at the request of two factions, but taking real breaks is an unjustified delay in the consideration of the Language Act. Now, according to the Rules, I will give all the necessary speeches. Oleg Valeriyovich, they gave it first. So three minutes after yesterday's break and three minutes today. Yeah, six minutes, then three minutes, Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u2	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u3	This is yesterday's break. After yesterday. The meetings were closed yesterday, and they were not allowed to speak. So then Oleg Valeriovich Lazko and then it's an hour of questions to the government. Please, Shurma Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u4	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Our statement today is a reference to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. Peter Alexiovich! We understand that the difficult times of the pre-election campaign are coming, and it's getting harder and harder for you to go to the region, to meet people, and the worst thing is, the more and more often the slogan is, "Damn!" And why does it sound like that word "disgusting"? But because what is happening in Ukraine in the social sphere has now become the subject of discussion not only in the Council of Europe but even at the level of the United Nations, and the head of the Monitoring Mission of the Supreme Commissioner for Human Rights, Fiona Fraser, speaks of a situation that has taken place in the last five months. I want to pay attention to that catastrophic situation with the pension payments. It is called a disaster in the United Nations. In December 2018, according to the Pension Fund of Ukraine, only 562,000 pensioners, whose registered residence is located in the DNR and LNR territories, continued to receive pensions. This is less than half of the pensioners registered for 2014. This means that the 700,000 Donbass pensioners who live in the war do not receive pensions. The UN Monitoring Commission stresses that there are no changes in government policy and social benefits, such as pensions, linked to the need to register a pensioner as a temporary transferee. As a result, Ukrainian citizens cannot exercise their fundamental social and economic rights on an equal footing, especially given that pensions are recognized as a form of ownership. Despite the three Supreme Court decisions handed down in the last six months to restore pension and social benefits, the government continues to link pensions to the registration as internally displaced persons. Although national courts from October 2018 to December 2018 have taken over 450 decisions in favour of internally displaced persons, the government has not yet implemented a court decision in violation of Ukrainian legislation. From November 2018 to February 2019, more than a million collision crossings took place each month, older people are in long queues and are regularly affected by snow, sun, ice, low temperatures, hot weather, and independent sanitation and medical facilities on both sides of the collision line. Since the beginning of 2019, according to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, with reference to official statistics, 11 people have died at the intersection of the collision line in eastern Ukraine, according to reports, 4 people have died at the only entry-exit point in the Luhansk region, open only to pedestrians located near the station "Stanica" of the Lugansk region controlled by the government. Limitation of freedom of movement, for example, leads to long queues at checkpoints of entry-exit on the collision line. Pensioners continue to face difficulties in reaching government - controlled territory to obtain social assistance and access to vital services, such as hospitals. The United Nations High Commissioner’s Office emphasizes that the government should immediately review its policies and ensure equal access to pensions, regardless of the place of residence. I'm talking. Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich! I'll do something different.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u5	Mr. Igor, please speak. It's not a debate with the government, it's a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u6	Vladimir Borisovich, I am addressing you as Prime Minister of Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. You obviously need to listen to Mrs. Suprun, who respectfully says to you, "Mr. Groissman." I'm addressing you, Mr. Groissman, you've come here to listen to people. Please. I'm telling you that people are dying in transition today because they can't get a pension, they can't get a pension, they can't solve the issue of 700,000 pensioners, and you're making a mess. What's more, I'm going to tell you that the President of Ukraine is going to Ukraine and he's going to hear, "It's a shame!".. So please listen to what the United Nations Commissioner for Human Rights says. The Opposition Block requires Decree 4575 to implement the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Fulfill your constitutional obligation to the constitutional right of people to receive pensions. People come here all the time, they say, and they give us the answer: we'll answer you tomorrow. We demand that this decree be placed in the Hall and that our citizens of Ukraine be given the right to receive it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u7	Thank you. And a closing statement. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then it's Vladimir Borisovich. All right, go ahead. One minute, Volodymyr Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u8	Your Honour, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council! Dear speakers! I know, and I understand, not from your statements, which is a rather difficult situation in the temporarily occupied territories of the Russian army, and I understand how difficult it is for people to live there today. But if it hadn't been for your troops from the Party of Ukraine, no troops would have entered the territory of Ukraine. That's why you're personally responsible for this -- for the country being under Russian aggression today. [[Applause]] So when you talk about retirees today, look in the mirror, repent, and be responsible. They would not suffer that way, for they are all Ukrainians and Ukrainian citizens, and you should remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u9	Thank you. The statement is concluded by the Fatherland and the Radical Party. Three minutes, Oleg Lazko, and we're moving on to the government's hour of questioning, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question and a requirement for the government of Ukraine. For five years, the authorities robbed Ukrainians, and a month before the elections, they suddenly remembered and began to imitate the struggle against poverty. Mothers and children are provided with cash, and pensioners are provided with cash — one-off taxes, which will then be taken twice as much after the election. I have a question for the Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, please give an answer to the inhabitants of Sum Royenko Ludmila Ivanovni, who is disabled and the group is a spinach in a chariot ten years after the accident. She wrote me a letter yesterday. "Pension is a thousand 497 bracelets, nothing added, not a penny added." So it only takes two packets of diapers that don't pay from the government budget, and it pays about 750 dollars a month for diapers. If you take on bandages, cotton, glues, and so on, all of this is a month's worth of Ludmi Ivanovni 450 bucks. As a result, she spends a thousand dollars on her own diapers and medications. How does she survive for the rest of her life, and what's left of her? I'll give you another case. Disability First group of Mrs. Eugenia from the village of the House of the Ternopil region, 72 years old. I was at her house a few days ago. So she said she doesn't go to the pharmacy at all because she doesn't have the money to buy drugs. A thousand 900 dollars, their pension, is spent exclusively on gas. Two cows are kept in a village that is not fed, and everything is given for gas, and there is nothing left to cure. The government, President Poroshenko, you're all talking about how you're helping people, how happy they've come to live with you. Tell Ludmila Royenko of Sum how she lives for 1 thousand 497 dollars. Tell your grandmother Eugenia of the Garden, in Ternopilska, how she can live and buy drugs — a disabled person and a group that is not going anywhere. So when you're all talking about your retirement today, you've raised your salary -- that's a lie. There's nothing real. Real people live very poor lives. Indeed, millions of Ukrainians are going abroad because they have nowhere to work and earn. They actually see one and a half billion bonuses paid by Naftogazu management, Kobolev, and six million dollars a month when millions of pensioners with cash pensions and millions of Ukrainians with cash wages. Communal debt through gas tariffs increased to 30 billion dollars in the last quarter. How can people survive with these pennies and wages? And what does the authorities do to raise wages, raise pensions, overcome poverty and restore the economy so that young people can return to Ukraine? Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u11	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're starting an "hour of questions to the government" and I want to inform you that in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are representatives of the government at the head of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman. Welcome to our government, colleagues! [[Applause]] Well, you can do it more actively, colleagues. This is our government. But before I give my word to a government representative, I want to make a little message, colleagues. Today, March 15, we celebrate the milestone of the history of the Ukrainian State. 80 years ago, the Parliament of the Carpathian Ukraine declared the full independence of the Carpathian Ukraine. The president of Carpathian Ukraine was the elected prominent Ukrainian Hero of Ukraine, Father Augustine Volosin. In a short time, the Ukrainian authorities in Carpathian Ukraine were able to establish their own armed forces, Carpathian Sic. And the chief commander of Carpathian City was Dmitri Klimpus, the grandfather of our Deputy Prime Minister Ivanna Klimpus-Cincadze. This is a symbolic link between generations. And I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Armed Forces were the first in Europe to fight the Nazi allies, the first in Europe! When Europeans were silent, the Karpathian Ukrainians fought for Ukraine’s independence against the Nazi allies. And I would like to invite you today to visit in the towers of the Supreme Council the exhibition "Silver Land" by the 80th anniversary of the creation of the State of Carpathian Ukraine, which was prepared by the foundation of the name Oleg Olzic. We are truly grateful to you, my friends. The declaration of an independent Carpathian Ukraine is a significant symbol and one of the strong pillars on which the foundation of Ukrainian statehood rests. And today we must remember that we will no longer allow the loss of Ukrainian citizenship! We're gonna win! Glory to Ukraine! And I would like to invite you before I invite a representative of the government, and today, Maxim Evgenovich Nefodov, I give the floor to Vladimir Borisovich Groissman. In three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u12	Thank you very much. I think if I take a little more time, Maxim Nepheodov will make his report a little less.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u13	All right, we got a deal. No problem, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u14	May I be in the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u15	Please, Vladimir Borisovich, I'm glad all the time. You're our government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u16	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Oleg Valeriyovich! You said about Ludmila Roenko, a woman who lives in a village who receives a very small pension. In one case, it's 1 thousand and 450. In the other case, it's 1 thousand and 900. So I want to tell you that it's not just the pain of millions of Ukrainians, it's my personal pain. Because I deeply understand that today’s cost of living is very, very difficult and difficult. And why did this happen? Because Ukraine, which needed 27-28 years of independence of the necessary changes in economic policy, in social policy, just didn't have them. After all, in the 14th year, you and I got a totally weak social policy, a totally weak economy, a zero budget, an abandoned budget, and we know that, an attack in the east of the country, and this is a common serious challenge for us. But what's in the mind of our interests and in the center. Indeed, Ukrainian citizens’ incomes, which should be not merely nominal, must be realistic in order to be able at least at a minimum to provide their own needs and needs for their own lives. I don't agree with you, Oleg Valeriyovich, that we haven't done anything in five years. I can tell you that the 14th to 15th year was disastrously difficult for the state: the state accounted for 108 thousand dollars, hundreds of billions of dollars of pension deficits at low minimum pensions, and around it we got another 20 percent of our state's economy. But what do we have now? We started to rebuild the economy of our country. And I don't agree with how you said that we haven't done anything about raising social standards in a few years. Dear colleagues, in the 16th year, the minimum wage in the country was $53.5, today is 150. The average wage was $180, today it was 360. I'm talking in dollars today. If you remember, the first recalculation of pensions was long before the election, which was in October 2017. And it was in October 17th that you and I decided that the next system census would be in March 2019, and it would be based on inflation compensation -- 50 percent of inflation, 50 percent of average wage growth in the previous year -- 18th. This can be determined only in the February months and so on from March 1st. We started monetaryizing subsidies not today, but last year. I want to emphasize to you that we've created an electronic roster of grantors. Last year we launched a monetaryization of subsidies among manufacturers. The time has come to give people their money. On the one hand, we cannot say that people lack money today, and on the other hand, we cannot give them money. What does someone propose to carry on in a year or two? People can't wait. Moreover, every penny we have in order to give it to others will do so. But we understand that there are problems with drugs, but we've launched the "Available Drugs" program. We realize that there are still many problems that concern people today. The solution is only a strong economy, a developed economy of the state, which will allow us to reduce the deficits of the Pension Fund and increase pensions. This is my policy: a strong economy, a fair social policy and a strong Ukraine. So I would ask you to unite around this and make the necessary decisions to make Ukraine stronger and the people richer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. And I'm inviting Maxim Eugenovich Nephrodov to speak with the government. Up to 10 minutes. If it's necessary, I'll add another minute or two if it's necessary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister has just raised the issue of economic growth. Growth in the economy is possible only when business is growing in the country, because this business is creating jobs, this business is paying taxes, this business is leading to an increase in wages. And the government's job is to simplify business conditions and involve it in the country. And now I'd like to talk about what's been done over the last three years and what's still in our plans. In the past three years, Ukraine has shown the greatest increase in neighbouring countries. We've grown from 83 to 71 in the last three years. [[B in m in s a l in]] Since 2009, Ukraine has been the world’s second in number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u19	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u20	Oleg Valeriyovich, no one was interrupted as they spoke. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u21	Since 2009, Ukraine has been the world's second-largest in ratings. Yes, we started with a very low base, and of course it's a question, including the politicians of the past: why us. Why, when all the countries in the '90s were reforming, we didn't do anything instead. But we're definitely correcting the situation. I'm sure I'm not ashamed to say that we're second in the world at a rate of growth. There's still a long way to go, but we know exactly how to get to top 30 in three years in the world. What does the government do? In recent years, eight specialized deregulation sessions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have been held, with some 10 acts directly devoted to reducing regulatory stress. Over the years, thousands of illegal and non-active acts have been abolished only at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and hundreds more at the level of individual ministries. These are the acts that would have lost power by now. These are the acts that we have inherited from the Soviet Union, sometimes dating back to the 20th to 30th centuries. Or these are acts that simply create some absurd barriers to business. As a result, the cost of each act is calculated and evaluated by the government regulator. Only these actions have led to an annual economy for the business of billions of dollars. These are the exact costs that can be invested, the costs that can be set aside to increase wages, or create new jobs. I want to give you a few examples, both positive, what was done and absurd, what was canceled over the years. For example, we have launched a mobile payment market where every Ukrainian can pay a variety of services from a mobile phone, starting with a banal one, such as magazines or newspapers, insurance purchases or online stores. Electronic auctions for the sale of Nadra permits were under way, and the first three absolutely transparent auctions on oil and gas fields were already under way. This is a real step towards the country's energy dependency. Only these three areas, which are not the largest, will allow more than 1.5 billion dollars to be added to the search for jobs, and then, if all the deposits are really confirmed, more than 6 billion dollars of investment in drilling and mining. The procedure for the renewal of special water permits is simplified for tens of thousands of businesses, as well as for individual individuals who have artesian wells. Canceled, the mixing of grains of different varieties on the elevators is prohibited. The absolute absurd norm of still Soviet times when the farmer had the same grain to keep separate, just because the state had decided. We cancel some absolutely strange things, starting with some just ridiculous, like price regulation in markets, such as specific rules how hay should be sold and so forth, to some, just once again, just absurd, that hinders business, and which is the only thing they do, it creates corruption and excessive action by checking organs. We're also doing a lot to open up data on a variety of regulations. Because I absolutely believe that the worst things are done secretly, the worst things are done under the dress, when business doesn't know what's going on, when the only way to do and get a license or get a document is to go and deal with an official directly and, unfortunately, bribes are often involved. It works a resource inspectiones.gov.ua, which covers absolutely all business checks. Already 900,000 users have taken advantage of the portal, which already contains data on 151 thousand tests. And that's not only relevant in terms of reducing the burden on business when testers go and collect bribes, but it's also very relevant in terms of consumer rights protection. Because for the first time, every Ukrainian can go in and see if it meets the fire safety standards of the shopping center where he is going; whether or not they have checked and found any disease in the nursery where his children are going, and so on. So please use this super-powerful and super-important resource. On regulations.gov.ua we made a step-by-step instruction on the discovery of more than 100 types of business. If you're a small entrepreneur, if you're just dreaming about your own business, please come in and it's just a step-by-step algorithm that says what you have to do to open a shop or a coffee shop or a hairdresser or a small manufacturing facility. Together with the Ministry of Regional Development, we've opened public access to urban documentation, and it's already 76 percent on average. There are areas that have entered absolutely 100 percent of all information. 7 000 600 building companies in Ukraine, as well as any purchaser of construction, including absolutely, small ones, who just want to build myself an individual house or some, I don't know, small premises to do business, now don't have to go and pay money or checks and be humiliated to get access to that information. He comes in and he can look at Kiev, in Lviv, in Kharkiv, in Odessa and so on. But I also want to say that we still have a lot to do. Our growth in ratings is a race that takes place with respect to our competitors. All the countries around us, all the countries that are our competitors for investment, are also out of place and doing something. So when we grow to one place, it means that we grow faster than they do. I am very grateful to Parliament that a number of truly revolutionary laws were passed this year and at the end of last year. Like the Currency Act, like the Single Window Act on Customs, like a bunch of laws to simplify building regulations and so on. And I would very much like this process to continue despite the political cycle. There are two super important laws in Parliament that actually have no political burden, which are important to both the majority factions and the opposition factions. The first is a bill developed by us and supported entirely by all business associations in Ukraine, both those that unite the Ukrainian business and those that unite foreign investors. This is Bill 8124. Only his acceptance will allow us to jump right now and enter the Top-50 Doing Business rating. Ukraine will be in a positive sense on the shelves of the world’s largest editions. Please look again at this bill, he passed the committee, and I am absolutely convinced that he will help every Ukrainian businessman, from both the largest companies and the smallest individuals entrepreneurs. And there's another Bill 4650 on decommunization. We want to get rid of the Soviet heritage with one stroke. Yeah, we can cancel a lot at the government level, and we're clearing out these old Soviet acts. But there's a huge number of norms that are still mentioned in the preamble by the Soviet Union that come out of completely non-market positions, where general philosophy is not all that is allowed, and the state regulates only certain things that are important to the lives and security of people, and where all things that are not directly allowed, that go back to when business was called speculation or fortune, and according to the purchase of currency, was criminal punishment. And this bill, it allows one mach to get rid of this Soviet heritage and complete the decommunization that we are conducting in all areas, both in the military and in the streets of our cities, to conduct it in the legislative field. So I very much ask the Supreme Council to support Bills 8124, 4650, and I am absolutely convinced that in two or three years we will be able to enter the top 30 countries of the world for the ease of doing business. And finally, this is the debt that the country has to the businessmen that feed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u22	Thank you. So now it's 25 minutes of questions from factions and groups and 20 minutes of questions from national MPs. You can sit down, thank you. So, who intends to ask questions from factions and groups, please record. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u23	Good afternoon! I have a request to Vladimir Borisovich. Vladimir Borisovich, we voted in the Supreme Council on Bill 9476, which deals with the issue of budgetary debt in ten areas of Ukraine when elections were cancelled because of the state of war. I have a simple request to speed up the signing of this bill so that the budget can get paid on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u24	Who Will Answer? Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u25	Thank you. It's on the President's signature, and I don't think there's going to be any delay, and it's going to be settled, but I'll take that matter into consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u26	Thank you. From "The Rebirth Party" Kulinich Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u27	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Ministry of Infrastructure, I see there is Mr. Dugan's deputy minister present. Last year, 70 km of territorial roads were transferred to the balance sheet without a single resource. He repeatedly raised this question from the rostrum, personally speaking to Minister Volodymyr Omelán. He admitted that, in fact, there is no resource for 2019. So the specific question is, what do we do in this situation, if we don't do anything on these roads this year, we're just going to lose the circuit centers from the area? This is Gadzich, Zynkov and Poltava. What to do in this situation, please comment. The amount of money that is obviously missing was also taken out in the form of an additional 160 million to pay off the creditors' debt to the area. Comment, respond, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u28	Thank you. It's actually a complex problem with the "T" road. What we've passed on to the T-road balance sheet will lead to, you're absolutely right, not even the lack of normal road maintenance, but the loss of road coverage between the settlements, between the villages. There are several ways out. So it's either increasing the funding of local budgets, it's probably going to have to be a comprehensive meeting of Autodora, the Mini-Infrastructures, the government. The other way out is, I think it's also working with Minfin, and the Poltava area could have been defined as a pilot. This is to allow the district governments to include credit costs under safeguards to increase funding and rebuild road construction. But this question is in the priority of the Mini Infrastructure under the leadership of Minister Omellan is meeting, and we will be resolving this matter very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u29	Thank you. From "The Will of the People" Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u30	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Volodymyr Borisovich, I didn't ask you once to have the government leave, but I did go to Luhansk. Literally, from March 1 to 8, he greeted the women with the spring. And when you've traveled all over Luhansk, you know that roads are life, and in Luhansk they're death. The entire road has turned into a cancerous tumor, and who will be responsible for the billions of dollars spent on infrastructure and roads with snow. I said roads like graves. No, they're a bunch of sausages that even a train is hiding in today. Now, about the road from Bilocurakin to Swatov, the railway road. There is no link, no link, and so trucks with grain are now completely breaking down, with cargo, the roads that are a little bit left. There's been a meeting, all the meetings are over, please tell me, when will the railway line be built from Bilocurakin to Swatov? And when it's scheduled.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u31	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u32	Volodymyr Borisovich, and "Our Land" requires an immediate audit and exit commission to Lugansk on an investigation where billions of roads were built. Thank you for the fact that 500 million dollars has been allocated to these roads. Just the money, where did you get it? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. By 2019 more than 800 million dollars had been allocated to the Lugansk region. But obviously, we need to improve control over the use of this money and the quality of the work. Therefore, I have no objection to your appeal. Today's commission is to have the Derjaudit Service, the Kravutodore, the Dracity, run a road check on the roads that. the quality of the road repairs that were made in the last construction season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u34	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, for most Ukrainian citizens, raising tariffs on utilities is the biggest problem. The second problem is low wages and pensions. Millions of Ukrainians live on net salaries, accumulating pensions, while receiving space payments, and no system of subsidies protects Ukrainians. Such a procedure has been adopted to provide subsidies that need to be paid out, a child from the home to write out, to divorce in a fictitious manner to obtain subsidies. I'm asking why you don't support our plan, introducing a moratorium on the cost of housing services. Why don't you support our plan: salary increases and pensions? When we asked for a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars in December, a minimum pension of 3,000 dollars, you said there was no money. A month before the election, money suddenly appeared. We ask you to review the budget and actually raise wages and pensions for Ukrainians, lower the cost of tariffs to exceed 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u36	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u37	Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor, Oleg Valeriovich. Let's take a few blocks, and I need your help here, too. Look, I think there's no doubt about it, let's be honest, I think people deserve it, we haven't had the opportunity with you, neither have you, nor have I, to reverse the situation of rising gas prices to implement the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. One. The other one. Ukraine accepted this commitment in 2008. If you want, I'll show you the materials and documents. Then these liabilities, they went from government to government until they got more than 50 billion debt, I mean external, domestic guaranteed, and we're serving them with you today, and it costs us 417 billion dollars a year. This is the first position. So you and I couldn't turn it off if we didn't, we'd just have a default. Defolt is the bankruptcy of a country that would be affected by the least protected levels of the population. Because billionaires would become multimillionaires, and people would just be poorer to the edge. Now it's second position. That's why we couldn't avoid it. Second position is tariffs. Tariffs. See, the price of gas in Ukraine, it's the same for everyone. But tell me why in Ivano-Frankiv, one gigacalorie costs a thousand 300 dollars, and in Lutsk, a thousand 900 almost 600 dollars the difference between two cities. So, I would like to say, honourable fellow national MPs, distinguished Oleg Valeriyovich, we need to look at who forms the component of these tariffs, and form, I emphasize, and for this we have the responsibility of the municipality, I say this as the former mayor. And let the mayors today stand up and tell us who's here, whether it is or not. Absolutely. Because the cost, the technology of heat production, transportation, regulation systems, where they're not available, the gas goes not only to the heating of water and heat, but also to the air and heats the earth. Now, that's where the money is going to be spent today, which people are paying on space tariffs, and I'm stressing it. Now it's about subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u39	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u40	If possible. Thank you. That is why we need to turn around. We've given up decentralization, colleagues. I was in Kharkiv County yesterday, running the Regional Development Board. Budget of the city of Kharkiv: until decentralization – 2.8 billion dollars; after decentralization – 9 billion dollars. Do you feel the difference? Part of that money. We accumulated resources last year to prepare for the winter 12.5 billion. Only 3 billion have spent on modernizing the system of heat and water. Well, it can't be like that. So we're strengthening control now so that local authorities start investing in new boiler rooms, new pipes, individual heat points. And yesterday, Pisochin, the head of the united territorial community, spoke to the regional development council, 32 thousand people near Kharkiv, saying that they set up individual heat points, modernize boilers, warm schools. This is what needs to be done today in order for the heat tariffs to be reduced. And we're doing everything we can to make it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u41	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u42	And we're doing everything we can to open up the opportunity to get Ukrainian gas. And one more thing. Yesterday, Naftogaz said he was buying cheaper gas after he imported it. I strongly support that. We have a marginal price of 8.55. That's why I'd like to do it today. On the gas. And they're saying that you can avoid any further elevations. I think that's what we need, and what I've always demanded of Naftogazu is cheaper to buy imported gas. And that's why today I'm going to serve Naftogazu Ukraine, Naftogaz Ukraine, together with.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u43	30 seconds, complete. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u44	I'm sorry. Excuse me, please. I will assign Naftogaz Ukraine today, together with the Ministry of Finance, to start a working discussion with the International Monetary Fund to settle this issue and not allow any gas rises based on the proposal of Naftogaz Ukraine. Thank you. Together, let us separate responsibility. Why? To get the results. As far as subsidies are concerned. Special commissions have been set up for subsidies in the territories. If people are in difficult circumstances, no one needs to be excused, these municipal commissions need to be contacted, and these committees have the right to make decisions individually for everyone who needs support. Thank you, Oleg Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u45	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the Burbak faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u46	Vladimir Borisovich, continuing this topic that you've just begun to sound. You know that the question of gas price is very painful for our citizens. And yesterday, you didn't approve of NAC Naftogaz's offer to cancel the special obligations for the sale of gas to the population, so you refused Naftogazu to release the free price, the pricing. And you and me, both the People's Front, and the coalition, and the coalition government, we're only going to agree to lower the price of gas. Please tell me, is there an economically sound basis for this? And finally, Mr. Prime Minister, in March, checks were started on gas distribution companies regarding the wrongly billed payments of gas for the population. I've repeatedly asked you and the Ukrainian citizens to pay only on the counter -- no extra payments, because I think it's an affair across the state. Please keep this matter under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u47	Look, what I said yesterday, because I got this letter just like the media at the same time from Naftogazu. See what Naftogaz suggested? Naftogaz suggested canceling the marginal price of gas, which is now limited to 8.55. If the government does that, if Naftogaz is a monopolist, they'll be able to temporarily maybe lower something and then twist it like that to 10, 11, 12 thousand dollars. That's why it's dangerous. I said there could be a trap here that we can't let. But the decline in Naftogaz prices for the population I strongly support. What's more, I demand Naftogazu and I've always demanded it. They have to buy cheaper to make it cheaper for people to get that gas. And this is the main task of the management of the company that they have to do. As far as the counters are concerned, there is also a government decree for Naftogaz to provide all Ukrainian citizens with counters this year. Then it will be the most powerful blow to hit corruption and account for all the gas in the country. And the third position is that of the polygamy. The NCRECR has issued 42 decrees to prevent these violations that you have mentioned. Lies aren't responding yet. You know, for me, Naftogaz is the same monopolist. So it's important that the regulation committee really act hard. She started this job. This is supported by the government and should lead to the responsibility of all who have exceeded tariffs. And one more thing, colleagues. So I hear a lot about what they're offering to raise the minimum pension in thousands of dollars. So let me tell you, if the minimum pension is now raised by 3,000, there's an additional $270 billion in the pension fund budget. I'm totally in favour of that, but I know exactly that we don't have that kind of resources right now. And that's something you have to be honest about. Thank you very much. But there'll be higher pensions, that's for sure. I can guarantee that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u48	From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u49	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. Since October of last year, there have been joint inspections of entrepreneurs led by the Labour Law Enforcement Authority, whose purpose is to detune the wage market, which we certainly support. Judging by the number of fines, the checks are really massive. If in the past year, in 10 months, violators were fined over 1.2 billion dollars in total, by 411 million in January of this year. This pressure on business and the collection of these billions of fines, unfortunately, the Minister of Social Policy, has a reverse effect. For the first time in many years, we have seen a decrease in the number of insured persons, i.e. a decrease of the EU base by 59,000 people only in the IV quarter of last year. And this is in addition to the fact that for several years, the share of the Pension Fund, which is covered by the government budget deficit, continues to rise from 139 billion dollars to 167. Do we realize that such tests are unfortunately counterproductive today? Today, we have a huge decline in the EU's base, which can do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u50	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u51	which could lead to further risks of under-compliance with the ECJ plan this year. I'd like to ask the Minister of Social Policy, your opinion, because in Parliament as early as the 17th year of the first reading of Bill 6489, which significantly reduces this pressure on business, removes the possibility of a first fine and allows business to first remedy these shortcomings. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, once again, these tests do not have the expected effect and vice versa, business and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u52	Who Will Answer? Reva, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u53	The Honourable People's Deputy of Semimenach, well, as far as it doesn't work. The fact that you're speaking is that there's an effect. It's just that you appreciate the negative, and I appreciate it a little differently. You put statistics on fourth block, and I'll give you statistics in a year. During the year, the number of EU-EU payers in Ukraine increased by 438,000, an official figure. Position number two. Regarding the pension deficit. In 2016, the pension fund's own income amounted to 112 billion dollars, a government budget grant of 145 billion dollars. It's been three years. The pension fund's grant has increased by 22 billion dollars, from 145 to 167, its own income from the Pension Fund, from 112 billion to 230 this year, more than 2 times. It's about efficiency. Third position. Your bill, not yours, but the one that was introduced actually removes any responsibility from the "slave owners" of today's people who don't form people for work, deprive them of social protection, deprive them of their normal pension insurance, rob them of their jobs, and make them slaves. We have fought this phenomenon and we will fight in spite of any opposition and any lobbyism of any Shadowhunter! This is a principled position of government and it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u54	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u55	Thank you very much, Your Honor! Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. I would very much like to hear the principle of the answer to my question. Because you, if you're doing well at the Pension Fund, I have a question for both the Minister of Social Policy and the Prime Minister at the same time. Our colleague, and I'll say it again, says that there is now a catastrophic situation involving the payment of pensions to a certain part of the population. 700,000 pensioners from unsupervised areas do not receive pensions according to the United Nations Monitoring Mission. Fiona Fraser, who says that the decision taken by your government No. 365 on certain issues of social pay to internally displaced persons, creates additional bureaucratic obstacles to this category of pensions. In fact, as a compulsory condition, it is necessary to register as an internally displaced person. That's not what I said, that's the monitoring data.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u56	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u57	Some persons do not have the opportunity to undergo the registration and verification procedure; this is a second requirement. They're actually living. Why don't you pay your pension in Ukraine for their bills? They'd come, they'd just take the money if they didn't actually live in controlled areas. I would like to hear in principle your answer: When will you pay the pensioners? 700,000 is almost 6 percent of the total number of pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u58	Dear People's Deputies, you must have listened to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Problems for people living in occupied areas, not only with pensions but also with the right to education, health, life, and personal security. Unfortunately, some of your friends, including those in your faction, helped the aggressor that we had a part of the territory under occupation, and we lost control of those territories. And so the 700,000 you're referring to, the people who lived statistically before the beginning of the aggression and didn't seem to get a pension, that's the direct result, because this area is occupied. And it wasn't the Cabinet's decision to deprive someone of their pensions, namely aggression and occupation. And the problem with these people with the intersection of the line is that this area is occupied. The government of Ukraine, the state of Ukraine, will pay pensions to all citizens who need them to come here. But to pay in Donetsk, in Lugansk, in other occupied cities and villages, we have no physical capacity. And if the Monitoring Committee asks such a question in principle, I have only one request to them, and it is also in principle to ask questions to those who occupied our lands. If Russian troops are withdrawn, the occupation will cease, the lines of disengagement will disappear, the Ukrainian authorities will return to these settlements, and all will receive pensions just as in controlled areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u59	Thank you. I can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u61	Andrew Volodymyrovich! Andrew Volodymyrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u62	And a final question from the factions, from the "Fatherland" faction. Oh, I'm sorry, finish your answer, then I'll give you my word. Please, Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u63	In fact, I was going to say that everyone who is retired in a controlled Ukraine territory is going to get their money. Moreover, personal accounts are maintained for each pensioner, and the funds are there. But I'm sorry, well, maybe you'll be the one who's going to be carrying the money, transporting the funds to the occupied territories. That's impossible. That's impossible. And I just want to emphasize that. If it were possible to retire there, we would do so without any problems. [[B in m in s a l in]] No problem! When a person is displaced, temporarily displaced from his home, because he is at the point of aggression by Russia, he can get it in Mariupola, in other cities, it's no problem. And please, if you have a list of such persons, let us check and help. That's 700 grand. Don't make it up, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u64	From Fatherland, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, two. Two short ones. Two brief requests to you. Unfortunately, it's a very empty report from the Ministry of Economics. I feel for you as Prime Minister, because the Ministry of Economics is the guide to reform. When they say we can go up to 50 in business, I can tell you, that law is garbage. Vladimir Borisov, the only question. In the 18th year, we went down to 7 Doing Business positions on networking. Give a separate commission, we're ready as a committee as an urgent law to pass. That's the first question. Vladimir Borisovich, well, they know, but they don't, and the grant money, the garbage wrote everything. Vladimir Borisovich, and second question. The situation of decentralization and local self - government is very unpleasant. Some officials, such as the head of the Sumu District Council, are preparing a major district of 24 communes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u66	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u67	24 utilities, including theaters, sports schools, everything in Suma, have registered to the villages where he is going to choose. And the income tax goes there in violation of all the laws. You can't see the D.A.'s office, B.S.A. The theater works in Sumos. People live, work in sums. This is the second case. I sent you a personal letter, I wrote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u69	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. The question of connection, it's, in fact, sharp, to the network. It's not just connecting, it's providing services to monopolies, it's providing services in the territories. I've been conducting a selector recently, and I've looked at the conditions in which people make contracts, pay them for services, and so on. Well, that's just terrible. And you know that the government of Ukraine, unfortunately, is so prescribed a law that we have no influence on them. If you give us authority to influence them more closely, we will. What's more, I think it doesn't just have to be a simplified connection procedure, it has to be fully available in one day without any objections. Because it's creating new jobs, it's developing an economy and so on. And they can't be the one that can't plug in water, gas, electricity, sewerage and so on. That's why I totally agree. As far as Doing Business is concerned, we're really setting ambitious goals to get into top-50. And I think it's real. The only thing we're gonna need is your support and your vote. It is actually a progressive enough law. There may be some discussion about the second reading, we're ready to have them with you, but we'll count on your support. Thank you for asking. On the subject of local self - government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u70	Please, let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u71	When it comes to local self-government, it's not a question of decentralization. It's not a question of decentralization, it's a matter of the head of the district council, who, as you say, has made a decision there. We need to check and respond first. As a result of your appeal today, I'm going to assign the head of the district government of the matter to check and personally inform you of what happened and in what way. Do you have a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u72	Thank you. All right, we're done with factions. Now, questions from the National Deputies. I'm asking you to prepare the national MPs for a recording of who's going to ask the question. No, I'm afraid not. We've already had an hour and a half of government. They're getting ready, aren't they? Please hold the recording. Let's go. Klimov Leonid Mikhailovich. 20 minutes. Shipko Andri Fedorovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't give a word. I didn't say a word. Jacenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u73	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Members of the Government! I wanted to ask you a question like that. We passed, more than a year ago, a law that reinforces responsibility for cruel treatment of animals. And I wanted to pay attention to this case where there's this guy in Bloody Rose, if that's what he's called, Rudenko's last name. He's a police officer, he's a criminal investigator. On March 2nd he picked up a dog in a villa and threw it into a skeleton. I wanted to ask a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Why is this inhuman still working in internal affairs? When will he be released and brought to criminal responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u74	Thank you for the information. Your parliamentary address today will be referred to the National Police, and a decision will be taken within the limits of the powers required by legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u75	So, colleagues, they finished, yes, I understand, the answer. I want to emphasize, Valérie, Shipko has just given the word to Jacenk. I can't see the climate in the room. If he is, let him rise up and let him know that he is. Deputies pay attention, including the Pigeon, to the fact that Klimova is not in the hall and is unable to pass on the word accordingly. And that's why Klimov's word isn't passed on; he's not in the hall. And, colleagues, I'd like to keep you posted. A member of the Chamber may pass the word on to someone who is not present to pass on the word. I now invite you to the word Tkakouk Hennady Vitaliovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u77	Alona Babak, Self Help Union. Thank you, Your Honor. Taking this opportunity, I would like to welcome all the workers in the housing sector with a professional holiday this Sunday. And to wish for tolerance in the context of all the reforms that are taking place today. Because these people are now the first to face the problems of the people they are addressing. But I would also like to thank the Government of Ukraine very much. It's probably a very rare thing when opposition faction deputies thank the government, particularly for the monetaryization of subsidies that have taken place. We understand, true, on this example, that anything is possible, especially the reform of the LHC when there is political will. And I would very much like the same political will to be in the government after the launch of the energy efficiency fund so that we can see this summer that people can actually warm their homes. And I would also like the government to tell people today directly not to break the grant program or theirs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u78	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u79	They need to pay for the gas payments, where they see that the accounting is done with the coefficients 1.02, 1.05, 1.08. Please, clearly, tell people that they don't have debt for gas, so they don't break the subsidy monetary system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u80	Thank you so much for thanking us. We do our utmost professionally to do our work under difficult circumstances. As far as the accounts are concerned. Accounts have to be paid for the amount actually consumed without any coefficients, and this is fundamentally important. We're working on the fund now, and we're going to do everything we can to get it started as quickly as possible, because there are certain procedures for the selection of leadership, oversight board and so on. But it's been a while, it's been going through, it's really going to work this year. But I'd like to do it a lot sooner too, and maybe we can speed something up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Bondar gives the talk to Pisarenko. The next one should be Bob's, but he's not in the hall, so the next one will be Opanasenko. Please be prepared. Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u82	Vladimir Borisovich! Vladimir Borisovich, can I have your attention? Mr. Vladimir Borisovich, Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you to consider for a moment with the deputies. Yesterday you were in Kharkiv, I hope you enjoyed everything, you see that in Harkow, you see that the results of the city's development are serious enough. This is due to the work of a great team of Harkians, led by the mayor of Gennady Kernes, and you can see that the city is developing. Three years ago, we offered to show the results on the basis of Kharkiv throughout the country, which is to restore that manufacturing potential of the city, we have enough infrastructure today, and I think the best in the city is a sufficiently talented intelligent labor force. We have a lot of opportunities to make an example of how to move the economy based on Kharkiv. Please look at our proposals for creating a special investment zone in Kharkiv, to give special advantages to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u83	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u84	So that we can make points of growth where there's already a set of sites ready for business development. Because there's been a lot of talk today from Mineconomy, but the real results are what we need to do now, and Kharkiv is a good enough place to become such a site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u85	Thank you so much for asking. Quarkish today is really showing a very good pace in economic growth, including growth in the industrial sector, in the agri-industrial complex. In general, I can say that the region is very powerful both in terms of concentration, and in terms of scientific acquisitions: science, industry, in different fields, energy engineering, aerospace industry, agri-industrial complex, IT sphere. This is all, indeed, a huge field for increasing and accelerating economic growth in the region. So, yesterday, literally, on my arrival, we signed an agreement that was foreseen by a plan approved by the government of energy independence until the 26th year of the increase in hydropower in the energy production structure. We signed a deal yesterday that will allow almost 1 billion 268 million people to load Turboat and Powerworks, in fact, and satellite companies, 25,000 employees will only work to execute this contract. In addition, we've created long-term programs, the 17th-22nd year for energy engineering, and today I'm looking very confidently at this sector, which also exports products to 45 countries around the world. As for Kharkiv, I have already set an example. I think that the state of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the government and Yatsenuk, and our government have played a key role today in the development of communities in Ukraine. We actually increased Kharkiv's budget from 2.8 billion dollars in the 14th year to 9 billion dollars in 2018. So what we're talking about is that these 6 billion are just the resources that, by investing wisely in the quality of life of the citizens in Kharkiv, can achieve tremendous results, including by investing in industrial development, the real sector economy. We're all absolute partners here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u86	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u87	We are here as absolute partners as the government of Ukraine for all regions of Ukraine, for all cities and communities. There are many examples in Kharkishte that united communities are developing very well, and this is very positive. In general, I can say that Harkushka is on the right track. And here we also have to give due respect to the head of the district administration, Julia Svetlica in her place is working professionally and qualitatively. Thank you so much for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Opanasenko, who is present in the hall, gives the word Krivenkov. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u89	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Volodymyr Borisovich, one thing is to say slogans and billboards to hang the whole country, and the other thing to do. The President's decree on the decades of Ukrainian language came out, and it contained a three-month deadline for the government to develop a programme for the development of Ukrainian language. There were experts, activists, proposals, and the director of the Institute of Ukrainian Language, Gritsenko, also the "engineer," and Andrew Nico, and many others, they gave you their government in the summer of last year. To date, there is no program for developing Ukrainian. Instead, you pass a bill on March 13th, a government in which at least 20 percent of the fifth grade in schools in the languages of Nazmajin is not less than or less than 20 percent in Ukrainian and only from 9th to at least 40 percent. And in Russian from the 1st to the 4th grade in this bill. So I do have a big request that you personally take up the development of Ukrainian language and do at least the things that are in the decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Victor. I see your boards. One, not many, saw one. I see others more often than all Ukrainians. And, you know, I mean, the media is, you can say today, sometimes you read slogans from billboards, and the head goes around, because such fiction is rarely where you can read it, and empty promises like boards during election campaigns. But you're right about the fact that one thing is from the boards to announce things. What surprises me most? If these were true things, I would respect that. When I understand from the inside that slogans that are on board are 90 percent empty promises that undermine trust as a result both to politicians and to the state, and by all means, to me, you know, it just makes me very uncomfortable, I just want to put it mildly. So I think Ukrainians are smart people, they deserve to get a quality, open dialogue with their politicians that they want to choose. So I, a man, always, when I promise something, I try to do it and look people in the eye openly, and there are no other options. As far as the English language is concerned. You know, it's a very fundamental question for me, too, because I respect all languages of all national minorities, but our national language is the only one -- Ukrainian. And I think there's no one here, there's not going to be any discussion, but the rights of other languages have to be completely protected. So I think why this is happening right now is because you're looking at the Language Act. As soon as you've finished it and approved it, and I think it's going to happen in the near future, I want to guarantee you that the government will work very quickly to ensure that it does. As far as the Secondary Education Act is concerned, a wonderful bill was drafted by a huge team led by the fine Minister of Education and Science, Lilia Mikhailovna Greenevich. And I can tell you exactly what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u91	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u92	That he fully, including from linguistic issues, meets all international obligations, all charters, and the conclusions of the Venice Commission, which takes into account all interests and makes this law absolutely modern. Thank you. He will be in Parliament and we will continue the committee-based discussions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u93	Thank you. I want to inform you that Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman. Vladimir Borisovich, Vladimir Borisovich, is a huge supporter of the Ukrainian language and the Ukrainian Language Act. I say you're Prime Minister Groisman, language in time. Vladimir Borisovich, language in time?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u94	Language, language, above all else. On time, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u95	Thank you. Next, Nemirowski, who is present in the hall, conveys the word of Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u96	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Vladimir Borisovich, I'm asking questions from the Committee of the Family, Youth Policy and the Child, because for the third month, the State has not financed the rehabilitation and rest of the children's centres "Artec" and "Young Guards". I know you understand it perfectly, they're on the verge of shutting down, they're threatened with shutting down the power and so on. I think there's already been significant sanctions. We understand that there's gravity and court decisions, and so on, and the Ministry's arrest accounts, but I think it would be possible for the budget committee to open new accounts and so on. We know perfectly well who is resting there. It is rested by children, children of orphans, children of our participants in combat, children of many children. And I'd love to, because on our committee, we keep raising that question, and I'd really like you to be able to solve that question, and we thank you just as much as we did for the monetaryization of subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u97	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Andrew Alexiovich Reva, Minister of Social Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u99	Please turn on Mr. Revie's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u100	Dear John Dmitrovich, I fully share your concern about the situation that has arisen. Indeed, the Treasury has blocked the accounts of the ministries from which these institutions are financed. We have made, and a government decision has been taken to allow these accounts to be unlocked, but this decree has to be accepted by the budgetary committee. I want to report that the second time -- Wednesday -- the budget committee didn't agree to this. Now we're going to be talking to our respectable colleagues again next week. I would like to ask the members of the budget committee to accept this government order and thus unlock the accounts so that we can finance the children's institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, the next question. Mikhailo Bondar, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Vladimir Borisovich, you have a question on the next supply of Cruiseways to raise freight tariffs. There is no constructive dialogue between consumers and railways. The coal - mining companies are still asking for these tariffs to be reduced, and many of the companies are already doing so. And as much as the cost of 30-40 percent is already higher. I am asking you very much to gather a meeting on this subject -- both consumers and the Railroad and government representatives -- to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u103	Please respond. Please, Victor Bondar will. Excuse me, Victor Long will answer, da-da-da. Deputy Minister of Infrastructure. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u104	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. You've raised the subject of tariffs, and I would still encourage you to look more complexly at the question. There is a bill in Parliament that authorises the head of the Dublin Transport Committee, which is supported by the Ministry of Infrastructure. For more than two years in different versions it cannot be accepted, a project on rail transport. This is our obligation under the Association Agreement, and it deals with all these issues not only with freight fares but with subsidies for passenger transport. Because you know, because of the increase in freight tariffs, we at least keep suburban passenger transport at that level -- what the state should do. So I urge you to do a dialogue on the basis of the Transport Committee and to adopt a bill on rail transport as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u105	Thank you. And the next question, please, is that the national deputy Korczyk gives his colleague the word to the Soviets. Please, please, Mr. Saveka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u106	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues, people of Ukraine! I have a question that is now relevant and not resolved in the city of Mikolayev, Mikolayivsk district, regarding the distribution of housing to the families of military personnel. I ask you to take this matter seriously with the families of the military, not to put experiments on them, as it is now, and to take this matter under control, Mr. Prime Minister. It is impossible for those who have given up their armies and their Father’s, who are standing on the front for twenty years, to remain homeless. In 2018 only 69 apartments were purchased by the people of Ukraine, so far they have not been inhabited. Please take control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u107	Thank you for paying attention to this problem. I'll have her processed and let you know personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Lensky Alexander. Alexi. Cooper. Lensky's in the hall? Is that right? Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u109	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Again with Naftogaz. Naftogaz was created by the Cabinet of Ministers, and he is the founder. The Cabinet of Ministers approves the supervisory board that oversees it. The Naftogazu government is thus acting under the supervision of the Supervisory Board, read the Cabinet of Ministers. Cobols and companies received 1 billion 300 million prizes. The prize appears to be paragraph 16 of the statute, solely on the decision of the Supervisory Board. For Ukrainian citizens, if it's 100 gruel bills, it's 1 humpat, as they say in the people, Kamaz, a self-inflicted cash. Offering or accepting the Cabinet of Ministers, making changes to the statutes -- paying the wages and bonuses of Kobolev and the company exclusively with cash, $100 bills, so that the people can see how they drive their monthly wages home with easy trailers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u110	And I want to tell you that I'm against this big bonus of 100 bucks. So I'm stressing to you that the contract, which was signed by the former Minister of Economics for five years, I think even without agreeing with the former Prime Minister, I anticipated. I don't think so, but I'm sure I've anticipated payments that, for me personally, both for the Prime Minister and for our government, looked like nonsense. What's more, nobody even had a discussion with them, and they didn't even warn us that there would be space premiums, and I'm stressing this for Stockholm. What's more, they got the advance. And so I went out completely publicly and said that under the conditions under which the contract was concluded, it continued to be impossible. And this is the position of the government. I offered the Supervisory Board, understanding, upholding its independence, such principles of corporate governance, offering the government as shareholders new terms of the contract, which would provide for several things. The first is the continuation of the gas transit through the banning of January 1st, 20th. That's the first one. Second position. This is the achievement of the goals that have been approved by the government to increase the yield of Ukrainian gas to 18.3 billion dollars. billions of cubic metres of gas, not as much as 15 billion as they're getting today. And the third. There should be market wages, but they're not cosmic, they're not cloudy. A Ukrainian manager can't get three, four times as much money as his colleague in Eastern and even Western European countries in similar companies. Well, it's a robbery, I think. What's more, when it comes to the fact that the prize was paid extra for Stockholm, I want to see the Stockholm funds on the state's Treasury accounts. Such money has not yet been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u111	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u112	If they haven't gone, there's no prize. That's the first one. Second of all, maybe I can make another story? When Naftogaz loses his lawsuits, maybe they'll make up for it from their own pocket? Or are we going to take them to pay? So it's a complete marshmallow. And I don't think that's possible anymore. So we proposed a supervisory board, you propose a new contract, we'll look at it as shareholders. It has to be with the principles of independent management, it has to be marketable, I emphasize that. There can't be a salary for a manager of this structure of 10,000 dollars, I can't, I agree with that. But everything needs to be clear, open, marketed. But not to discredit today's reform itself and not to rob the company by any decision. This is my position as a principle. So this is what we're going to focus on. Thank you so much for your question, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u113	Colleagues, time spent asking questions by national deputies, are complete. Please, three minutes is final for the Prime Minister and we're finishing "the hour of questions to the government." Please, 3 minutes, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u114	Thank you very much, fellow national MPs, for your questions. We tried, as always, to answer openly and as objectively as possible. Thank you for your support. I want a good job and we'll work together. And I'm going to ask for your support in adopting important laws to ensure financial stability, economic growth, no matter what kind of campaign, whether it's presidential or parliamentary. And all you know about our social policy is that it's in the agenda not only for my prime minister, but also for President Poshenko, and for our coalition, and for our government. Thank you very much, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u115	Thank you both to the members of the government, and to Prime Minister Groisman of Ukraine for an open, honest and meaningful discussion. I wish you success in building Ukraine. So, colleagues, we've completed an hour of questions to the government. And we're going to the next chapter -- that's reading MP's questions. So I'm asking everyone to come into the Chamber to hear the MP's questions. And I invite you to the word of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u116	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let me inform you the same way and repeat the following. Today we have 187 parliamentary requests registered, and it's a long enough turn for everyone to announce them right now and they've gone to the appropriate ministries and offices to get answers from all the deputies. And so today we've got the "Victory" section. So today we are not going to consider a bill on language and amendments to this bill. We'll start with 491 revisions on Tuesday, Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u117	Of 490 repairs. Thank you for clarifying one of the authors of Mr. Musia's amendments, this is his amendment. And now I'm going to question the MPs, and I'm going to point out that there are 187 of them. So Andrija Vadaturski to the President of Ukraine on speeding up the signing of Act No. 9476, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 28, 19. As you know, when we consider the questions to the President of Ukraine, we must first vote in favour of the request. I am voting in favour of this request. Please identify yourself in the hall. Vadaturski. [[11:26:54]] For-32 There's no potential for a room to support a colleague of Vadatours, so we're moving on. Sergey Kudlayenka, head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for immediate action to recalculate pensions for military pensioner Alexander Bekovayny. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir Observatories for the provision of material assistance to residents of the village of the city type Lyubar Žitomir district of Odonchuk Olzi for the rehabilitation of the daughter of Solomija in the 17th year of her birth. Victor Razwadowski to the Prime Minister for the transfer of the construction of a solid household waste site in the area of the former glass plant of a town-type Romanov Žitomir district. Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets received from Corruption and Other Crimes on the activities and effectiveness of the Ukrainian National Agency for the Search and Management of Assets derived from Corruption and Other Crimes. Vadim Krivohatka to the head of the Zaporozhye District Council for the non-admissibility of creating artificial restrictions on residents of Zaporozhye district for haemodialysis. Artema Witka to the head of the Poltava observatories on the insufficient review of the parliamentary appeal and the lack of adequate response by the Poltava government to the situation of illegal disconnection from the gas supply of the Poltava region’s infrastructure. Hennady Chekita to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Culture, for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of 10 million dollars to complete the renovation of the Odessa Academy of Music and Dramatic Theatre. V. Vasilka. Igor Alekseieva to the Prime Minister for the repair of the pedestrian crossing and the stop of the public transport "South Borschagivka". Igor Aleksiev to the head of the Kyevo-Svetoshin village council of Kyiv district in order to maintain road cover on separate sections of the Kyevo-Svetoshin district of Kyiv region. Michael Bondar to the executive director of the Ukrainian Cultural Fund, the head of the Lviv Arch, the head of the Lviv Observatory for the proper infrastructure for the festival of the "Krona Yakuba" fair in the town of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister on the interaction between the responsible authorities of the State and local self-government on the timely submission of information to the national voter register on persons who are 18 years of age and who are eligible to vote in the elections. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister for the increase in the number of scientific and technical staff rates in the State Specialised Art School, the I-II International School of Arts. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister on the enlargement of the state of the National Museum of the Ukrainian Pottery. Yuri Boyka to the Prime Minister for the operation of entry-exit checkpoints in Zlote Ppasnian district of Lugansk, an increase in the number of entry-exit checkpoints on the line of separation in Donetsk and Lugansk areas and crossing points on the state border. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to replace the residual endoprotitises of emergency sizes necessary to carry out operational interventions to patients of the KZ "Livivian District Hospital of War Disabled Persons and the Repressed Name of Lipa". Jacob Bezbach to Kabmin, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the National Police, the Hen Prosecutor's Office on the need for effective measures to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of Sergey Alexankin. Igor Shurma to the head of the National Police, Henprocuror for the involvement of officials of the Ministry of Health in the results of the audit of the Court of Auditors on the effectiveness of the implementation of the project "Improvement of Public Health" supported by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister on non-execution of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine's protocol missions to the Prime Minister of Ukraine since September 14th, 17th, concerning the transfer to the Administration of the State Food Service of a material and technical base that belongs to the decommissioned State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine. Michael Humil to the Minister of Justice on the rightfulness of making changes to the Mortgage Register regarding mortgage holders. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Transport, Prime Minister, on the need for electrification of the South Railway area by a length of 239 km from the Sumskia County Charity Station to the Lubotin Station of the Kharkiv Region. Vadim Krivohatka to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the possible overriding of powers by the leadership of the Vilnius Regional Authority of Zaporozhye Region. John Sporish to the Head of the U.S.S.A. regarding the investigation of anti-State actions by the leadership, the priests of the UCP Tulchin diocese and their adherents to the local temples. Victor Wolfe to the Head of the Supreme Council for failure by the Head of the Supreme Council to comply with the requirements of article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine and part two of article 8 of the Supreme Council Rules. Savchenko's hopes for Henprocuror's information on the conduct of pre-trial investigations initiated on the basis of parliamentary appeals and personal contributions to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the abuse of office by officials of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the provision of quality uniform clothing for the needs of the U.S.S.S.A. for hundreds of millions of dollars. Savchenko’s hopes for the Head of the Constitutional Court regarding the violation of constitutional conduct in relation to the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine (constitutionality) with the position of part five of article 176 of the CPC, as well as the reasons for delaying consideration of this constitutional conduct. Alexander Kodola, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health for the need to provide endoprotetics and implantation kits for the Montenegrin region. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Director of the State Institute of Otolaringology of Professor Colomaychenk of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, President of the Academy of Medical Sciences, on the hearing of the cochlear implantation system of adult children with deep hearing loss. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Hmelnick Authority for the proper implementation of the requirements of current legislation in part of the State-guaranteed rights of citizens with rare (orphan) diseases. Maxim Burbak to Prime Minister. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the repair of automobiles in the Chernobyl region. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister on increasing the negative trends in the economy. Igor Popov to the Cabinet of Ministers on the results of the national selection of the Euro-2019 Song Competition. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need to increase the size of monthly targeted assistance to internally displaced persons. Artema Vítka to the head of the National Police on the investigation of the actions and omissions of officials that have led to a critical situation around the educational complex in the New Sanjara region. Anna Romanov to the minister of culture, head of the Montenegrin District Administration on the critical situation with the temple of the Holy Resurrection in the village of the city-type Sedniv Chernigiv district. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the immediate resolution of the issue of lack of equipment in state-run passport scanning agencies. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the immediate adoption of measures aimed at preventing the spread of the diphtheria virus among Ukrainians. People's Deputies Groups (Miroshnichenko, Sidorovich, Danchenka) to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for the verification of information contained in the media, on possible violations of the requirements of legislation and over-authorisation of NABA employees during a search at the Central Office of the Public Shareholders Association "Agrarian Fund". Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Education and Science on the provision of educational facilities in the Volin region with means to improve the quality of education. Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Volin Observance Department for the Reconstruction (Thermal Modernization) of the educational complex "Manewic School of Public Education I-III of the School of Secondary Education". Alons Schkrum to the Prime Minister on the issue of funding from the state budget for the completion of construction in the Chernobyl area of CAT "Krasnoylski" and "Dzakovci", the roads to them and to CAT "Shepita". Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionova to the Prime Minister on speeding up the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of the regulations and regulations required by the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Persons Missing. Irina Heratschenko and Maria Ionov to the Minister of Social Policy on the use of measures to improve pension legislation and improve the level of protection of the rights of working pensioners in Ukraine. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the legislative provisions on the provision of commercial gas accounting, disagreement between gas distribution system operators and investment programme projects for 2019 after the establishment of individual gas meter consumers. Romana Zvarič to Henprocuror for the performance of official falsification by officials of the State Enterprise Kyiv Armouring Plant of the State concert "Ucroboronprom". Romana Zvarič to the Director General of the State concert "Ucrobornprom", the director of the Public Enterprise "Kyivské Bronétánské plant" for the provision of false information to the management of the State Enterprise "Kyivské Bronétské plant" of the State concert "Ucroboronprom" at the request of the national deputy. Jacob Besbach to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Health, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health on the provision of funding for the National Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology of the name of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Lukyan. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Social Affairs, head of the Kyiv Observatories for the provision of a sanitary and tourist route to the victim of a fire and a high temperature fire in Linique Vitalia Alexandrovich, resident of the village of Volice of the Fastevsky district of the Kyiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Prime Minister, deputy head of the Forest Resources Department for the proper execution of the response to the previous call for citizens to use forest resources for their own purposes. John Sporish to the head of the Vinnick Arch, the head of the Vinnick observatories regarding the creation of a united territorial community in the village of Rakhni Lis in the Chargorod region of Winnitsk. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the need to cancel the transfer of the clock to summer and winter time in Ukraine. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the free trust of counters for consumers of water and heat. Igor Popov to the Cabinet of Ministers for the consideration of the criteria of integrity during competitive public service elections. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the executive duties of the Supervisory Board of the National Social Radio Company of Ukraine regarding the failure of Ukraine’s participation in the international Eurowax 2019 song competition. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Minister of Finance for International Loans in 2018 and State Loan in 2019. Jury of Macedonia to the Prime Minister on the provision of information on specific issues related to the conduct of a regulatory monetary valuation of agricultural land. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister for information on the fulfilment of the requirements of article 12 of the Ukrainian Protest Act. Jury Pavlenko to the minister of justice about the number of registered births of a child using separate articles of the Ukrainian Family Code. Arthur Martovicki to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the rights and legitimate interests of workers of harmful professions. Arturo Martovicki to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the right of the Pavlovgrad City Council of the Dnipropetrovsk oblast to local borrowing. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv government for the allocation of funds (subsidies) in 19th year for the capital repair of the road on the street of Polova in the village of Red Yara in the region of Kyiv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine for the purchase of medical equipment to the municipal institutions of the Voddarsky and Tarastian districts of the Kyiv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine, Ministry of Energy, on the need for the creation and storage of minimum oil and oil reserves. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Social Policy, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the provision of endoprosthesis at the expense of the state budget. Jury Boyka to the Head of the Security Service, the Henprocurator, for violating the requirements of criminal procedural law by law enforcement officials in the course of a pretrial investigation into criminal conduct in relation to the state-owned enterprise "Thank you". Alona Babak to the Kyiv City Head for transmission according to the document acceptance and transmission act of 11 July 18th, No. 38 of the House Declaration on the Street of Szczerbakowski, 52 in Kiev. Sergey Melnik to the Secretary of Defense on the procedure for obtaining the status of a participant in hostilities. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister for the suspension of excise taxes on imported customs territory and manufactured in Ukraine of excise goods (fuels) in the budgets of the united territorial communities. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and municipal services in breach of legislation by increasing the price of gas for domestic consumers. Alexander Kirsch to the Prime Minister for the distribution of land tax and income tax to the State Science and Production Company of the United Communicator. Alexander Kirsch to the head of Nazcomisi, who is in charge of state regulation in the field of energy for the cessation of the abuse and looting of harkovyans by the regional gas company Public Shareholder Society "Harkovmiskgaz". Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister on the opaque mechanism of the beginning of the monetization of subsidies, the lack of clarification of the order of social services and media, the creation of social tensions among citizens and the violation of their rights. Igora Lucenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Police on the need to create a hotline to respond quickly and professionally to law enforcement, which specializes in Ukrainian urban legislation, to report on the possible commission of crimes against Ukrainian cultural heritage objects. Igora Lucenka to the head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption for the full verification of the declarations of a person authorized to perform functions of state or local self-government, in 2015, 16 years before the judge of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev, Linnik Oleg. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister on the coefficient of payment of monthly insurance payments on the basis of the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance" of March 1, 19th. Taras Batenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology Service and Nadr Ukraine to take into account the decision of the Drogowish Rural Council of the Mikolai district of Lviv to preserve the historical memory of the Mikolai fortress in granting a special permit to use the T.O.T. Trade and Industry Company Westinvest-Partners. Mikhail Golka, head of the Ukrainian State Audit Service for reporting on the results of the financial and economic audit of the Ukrattransgas stock company. Michael Golovka to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the reasons for delaying the pretrial investigation of the death of Hero of the Ukrainian-Moscow War of Koval Alexander. Sergey Melniczuk to the head of the Odessa observatories, Odessa city head, for the protection of the property rights of the minor Alice-Ludmila Postolatieva. Group of Nardeps (Bathenka, Shevchenka, etc.) to the Minister of Internal Affairs to investigate the possible illegal use of state budget funds for the purpose of campaigning for President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry for the change in the Natural Gas Methodology to standard conditions in the absence of appliances to measure the temperature and pressure of the gas. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Odessa State Department, the Odessa Region of Odessa, regarding the need for a comprehensive response to the appeal of the resident of Odessa Kobeshawdze Tamara to provide material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment of a minor and comprehensive social protection. Jury Levchenk, acting as Director of the State Enterprise, "Specialised State Expert Organisation - Central Service of the Ukrainian State Building Expertise" on the provision of expert reports on the construction projects "The construction of the Grand District Road in the area from the avenue of Marshall Rokossovski to the street of Bogatyrski with the construction of transport solutions at different levels". Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kiev City Public Administration for blocking the transport connection of residential buildings on the street of Akademic Tupoljeva in Kiev, which blocks the passage of local residents to their homes and makes it impossible for them to access any means of transport, as a result of inappropriate and careless organization of road reconstruction work. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister, the head of the Central Election Commission on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities and the CEC on the implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the legal consequences of the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need for urgent approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the order and conditions for granting subsidies from the State budget to the local budget for the creation of operational and control services, for the implementation of a pilot project on the development of an emergency health care system in Winnitsky, Donetsk, Odessa, Poltavski, Ternopil and Kiev, as well as for the distribution of this subsidy between the respective local budgets. Irina Suslowy to Minister of Infrastructure in charge of the Head of the State Road Agency, who is responsible for the Head of the Road Service in the Cherkas region for ensuring a satisfactory state of road cover for the general use of state-of-the-art traffic in the Cherkas region. Irina Souslowy to Minister for Temporaryly Inoccupied Areas, the minister of culture, explaining the payment of the tourist congregation by internally displaced persons. Sergey Lechchenka to the Minister of Justice on property rights issues regarding the municipal market Word in Poltava. Sergia Leshchenka to the head of Kyiv City State Administration for the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of Kiev, part of Dragomanova Street, in the Darnicki district of Kiev. Andrija Vadaturski to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on speeding up the submission of Law No. 9476 to the President of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 February 2019. Paul Djublik to the Minister of Education and Science for the inclusion of the educational institution in the list of institutions on which the centres of professional perfection will be established. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister on the redistribution of medical subsidies. Vadim Krivenk and Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister for the implementation of State programmes to support those affected by the Chernobyl AES disaster. Paul Kishkar to the head of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Stock Exchanges for the provision of incomplete information on request. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of legislation by investigators of the CSR in the Kharkiv region of Báržkim A.J. I'm sorry about the lawsuit. Victor Krivenk. It said, “Vadim Krivenko. ” It's wrong of protocol, I'm pointing out to the Secretariat that we have Victor Krivenko as a national deputy. Victor Krivenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of land use. Victor Krivenk and Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General for the prolonged investigation of the tragic death of the prominent statesman of today’s Ukraine, Viacheslav Czarnovol and Eugene Pavlov. Borislav Bereza to the Prime Minister on some of the issues of the distribution of subsidies. Borislav Bereza to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the illegal construction of small architectural buildings in the area of the town of Kyiv. Jurya Berezi to the Prime Minister, Head of the National Police, Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the work on non-payment of salaries to employees of the state-owned firm Ukroblah during the multi-month period. Igor Goose to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine on the need to continue financing the repair work of the N-22 national road on a section passing through the city of Vladimir Wallinsky on the street of Ustiluski. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need for immediate assistance in the prevention of emergency situations in Volodymiri-Wolinski (an emergency situation of two multi-housing houses). John Melniczuk to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the urgent solution to the appointment of the first election of the deputies of the Sutisk village council of the unified territorial community of the Tivrov district and the Sutisk village head. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister, head of the Vinnick district administration for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of mammography for the Delhi Regional Center of Oncology. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that the investigation is conducted in good time. Yurya Timoshenko is acting as head of the department in the Yavorów district of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in the Lviv region for the provision of information. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the unsatisfying state of the area at the Losiné Lake in the right district of Kyiv. Next request by Andria Illenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the capital repair of the asphalt cover in the suburban area on Rajodny Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Oleg Osuhovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Pavel Rosenk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Head of the Equality District Administration, Head of the Equality District Council, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the Equal Public Power Association for the provision of electricity to residents of the village of Buda Rokitniv district of the Plain Region. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the Administration of the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the torture of prisons. Sergey Kaplina to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the provision of information on the authenticity of the translation of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the international transport of passengers and trucks. By car. Sergija Kaplina to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to clarify the clarification of the terms used in the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Lithuania on the international carriage of passengers and goods by road. Mr. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for information on how to manage the funds provided to Ukraine by partner governments, the European Union and international organizations for the resolution of migration problems for 2014-2019. Vladimir Paraszuka to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine Ulysses Suprun, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Igor Rainin, to contribute to the allocation of funds for physical rehabilitation at the next step of Chicago wounded in the zone of anti-terrorist operation of the Major of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, lecturer at the National Academy of Land Forces of the Name of Hethman Peter Sagaidajdachny, a participant in the anti-terrorist operation in Lugansk and Donetsk oblasts, the cavalry of the Order of Bogdan Hmeljnicki Jaroslavovich. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for information on the employment of young professionals – graduates of state vocational and higher education institutions, who were trained in regional and state procurement. Jurya Derevjanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the provision of information on the amount of pensions increased in 2019 after the pension index, and on the number of pensioners who receive or receive separate supplementary lump sums in 2019. Alexia Rybkin to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the National Police in the Vinicki region, the head of the Vinnicki District Public Administration for violations of Ukrainian legislation and the threat of deterioration of the environmental situation of the Wynnicki district as a result of the construction of a solid waste field. Anna Romanova to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, for the implementation of an effective state policy in the area of tourism development. Igora Brichenka and Taras Kremen to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on State support for agricultural producers by stabilizing the price of water for agricultural crops. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of the legislation by gas distribution network operators in relation to gas consumers. Ruslan Demczak, until he was temporarily acting as President of the Ukratransgaz AT, the head of the National Commission, who is in charge of national regulation in the field of energy and utilities for the execution of the court's decision. Ruslana Demchak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of an indexation of pensions for citizens who are assigned a pension in accordance with the Ukrainian State Service Act. Sergey Vlasenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the use of the President of Ukraine's electoral campaign, Peter Dustenk of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine for the purpose of combating political opponents. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-inclusion of the daily plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with bills prepared by the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Dear colleagues, I have to inform you that I have announced all 187 requests that have been prepared by colleagues and registered for this day. Next, I have an announcement that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation of the Interfractional Za Odessa. The national deputies of Ukraine, Kiwalova Sergey Vasilovich and Doubov Dmitry Ivanovich, were elected as coleaders. Dear colleagues, I also stress and repeat that today we will not be considering an amendment to the bill on the functioning of the Ukrainian language. We'll go back to these amendments the next Tuesday session and start with 490 amendments. I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. And in 30 minutes, I'm asking all my colleagues at 12:30 to return to the session room to those colleagues who are planning to take part in the "Rizzle" section. As far as I'm concerned, I understand, dissatisfied with the questions, there have been enough of these allegations of dissatisfaction. Today, we simply did not arrive because there were many questions to consider, and we are moving this to the next Friday. I hope that we'll just have the next session of the week, and usually, during this time, they're less registering requests from national deputies, and we have more time to make speeches. Thank you, colleagues. And at 12:30, we meet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our plenary session. And I'm addressing those Ukrainian national MPs who are in the towers, and I'm asking you to go back to your workplace, because we're about to start writing for the MPs who want to and want to speak in the "Variance" section. Dear colleagues, the break is over, please return to the session room. Please come back. Dear colleagues, so we now have time for speeches by national MPs on various issues. And I'm asking you to sign up all your willing colleagues for the performances. Please sign up. I've been waiting a long time. The "Race" system doesn't have to be broken to log in. Thank you, therefore, dear colleagues. Rephat Chubarov conveys the word to the national deputy Victor Krivenk. Please, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u119	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Honourable Ukrainian citizens, Parliament is considering an impeccable bill on Ukrainian language. And as the head of the interfractional union in Parliament for Language, I want to address the leaders of all factions and propose the next model so that we can still adopt this bill on the next Thursday. On Tuesday, to maximize the gathering of all deputies in the hall and to vote on the continuation of the bill and its amendments without interruption at 18 p.m., that is to say, until the conclusion of the debate. To go from Tuesday to Wednesday night, to review. We have three in the foreword: a head and two deputies who can alternately change each other, and so that we can consider the entire Wednesday amendments, from Wednesday to Thursday at night, and Thursday have a chance to adopt this law. I think it's a huge risk to put our bill on the basis of who will be elected President of Ukraine. We will see blackmail after he, God forbid, will not be accepted on Thursday that you vote for one of the candidates, because he alone will guarantee that between the first and the second rounds this law will be passed. They will do the same between the first and the second tours and delay its acceptance, the possible adoption, and the conclusion of the second round. The law on language was to be adopted another year ago. But unfortunately, somehow the same model was chosen just before the election. And we see how this fifth column is being used in the Supreme Council. As she relates in each of her speeches, it is as if there were divisions in society that would be banned from speaking English, Russian, or other languages at home. And we see how this is used to harm Ukraine. So once again, I urge us to adopt this bill, as of Tuesday, to keep it under constant review. It only takes about 18 hours to repair the opposition block, and we have only 14 hours to work. Next week, if we're talking, by 6 o'clock Thursday night, it's just 15 hours. And in this part, we all have to consolidate and ensure that it's adopted on Thursday in the correct format. Because the amendments made by Mr. Lesyuk, my one-party member of Paul Kiskar, Mrs. Helen of the People's Front, who is working, should be taken into account by all of them. But now all these votes, everyone understands that they don't affect anything as amended, 10, 20, 40 votes. Still, the overall vote will be before a real vote, read out the amendments that have been taken into account, which are unaccounted for. And depending on that, the law either wins or fails.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u120	Three more minutes, Mr. Krivenko has another, he's the tenth in our list of speeches, now give him three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u121	Thank you. And I'm going to use this time again to explain the pragmatic role of language to understand why it's important that there's no war, there wouldn't be these economic losses if there was Ukrainian cultural space in Ukraine since 1991 if schools were Ukrainian. After birth, a person becomes either Ukrainian or Japanese or French on the basis of four factors: parental education, it's the culture of the environment that surrounds him, it's blood, it's genetics and it's the energy of the earth. In what mix, I don't know, no philosophical theological system, but the first two are considered to be fundamental: it's parental education and it's culture, it's an environment. The language is the basis of an appropriate national culture: Polish-Polish, Hungarian-Hungarian, Ukrainian-Ukrainian. The medium of culture is a contracting State that protects, develops, and preserves this culture. And that's why any wise government beats its enemy, another nation, first of all, into what it beats, it beats its tongue. Because a person becomes either a cosmopolitan, it's the same thing as where he lives, ecology, income and security, and he leaves, or he becomes a bearer of another language, as a result of another culture, as a result, a customer of another state. Therefore, Poland: free Polish language courses. You see Hungarians fighting in our parliament for their cultural interests. You see Russia constantly trying to destroy Ukrainian language. More than 64 times at the national level during the 1950 ’ s, occupations banned Ukrainian language. German Catherine the Great, who did not actually speak Russian, but defended Russian and protected the Russian Orthodox Church. Can anyone believe Putin is a believer, Cadebust Putin? But he defends the Russian Church and promotes Russian because he understands that his government machine and his system will come through the language and culture. In doing so, we do not need to repel Russian - speaking Ukrainian patriots. They need to explain the pragmatic role of language that there is no "Russian world" in Ternopol and Frankivsk, not because there are nuclear weapons or NATO battalions, but because there is Ukrainian cultural space. We need to show how Israel revived the actual dead language, how France struggles for its language. And people who were raised in the Soviet Union, and there was also a system of patriotism -- pioneers, commodores, jaundices -- who, when the publicity began, when the archives opened, when they saw all the concentration camps, the famine, and who loved the great Soviet state, and who each began to love their own little: their own Kazakhstan, their own Belarus, their own Ukraine. And when someone comes in and tells them that you're not a patriot, if you don't speak Ukrainian, and the person says, well, I left it on the front of my leg, there in Kharkiv or Mariupoli, all of these people need to be explained in a calm manner that Ukrainian language is the basis of cultural space, and it's like a dome that covers and protects as an anti-air defense, like a nuclear missile shield. And in this regard, we need to explain in a calm manner the pragmatic role of language and why we are adopting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Oleg Medunica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u123	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Today. I, by the way, support the previous speaker who spoke about the importance of the adoption of the Language Law, and I support his idea that next week and next Thursday, when we can actually vote on this law, we would work to exhaust the consideration of the agenda. That is, until we consider the law. But now I'm going to talk not only about language, but also about justice, about social justice. I've already spoken from this rostrum and I've been talking to the government about injustice in today's population subsidies. Because the current rules established by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers do not follow such justice. First of all, the standard that is set for the obligation to take into account the income of all persons who are registered in a home is discriminatory. Because we actually have a lot of people who really need subsidies, but for some reason they can't write people who are registered there out of their apartment, and they can't give proper information about their income, and they don't actually live there. We've already talked about this to the government, and we're waiting for some feedback that this rule will be settled. And the commissions that we have with each department of social protection, which calculates subsidies, will be given the right to determine whether it is possible or impossible to issue such a statement. I also want to talk about social standards. We do. subsidies are not paid for large apartments. And it's a norm that leads us to socially protect our population that can't pay large sums in payments. But there are social standards that limit subsidies. Unfortunately, these social standards have been declining steadily lately. I demand from the government that this process be stopped, more importantly, returned to the 2015 level. I am particularly concerned by the fact that such standards, both by subsidies and by benefits, are declining for persons who are involved in an anti-terrorist operation with disabilities in an anti-terrorist operation. It's not acceptable when they are. These social standards are declining for this very category of people. Enter your degree: The more your income, the less your social standard. That would be fair, that would be wise. But it turns out that the decrease in social standards applies to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u124	Fifteen seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u125	No matter what income you get. So I want these two basic positions, this registration in the apartment and the social standards, to be taken into account by the government in issuing a new decision on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u126	Thank you. Please give the next speech, National Deputy Kuprienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u127	Oleg Kuprienko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear Ukrainians, once again. There is no language problem in Ukraine. None. It wasn't. It won't be. There are polytechnologies, like every time, that drag this problem into the world of God, and they start telling us that we have to beat ourselves up because of the Ukrainian language. Let's think about what billboards hang from the election campaign: "Army. Language. Faith." In faith, Tomos and I came out a little wounded, not the way we wanted. With the army now seen what was happening, with the theft, with the robbery, with the actual blood of the fighters. There's a language left. Well, let's introduce language law into the room and look at it, knowing that 2,000 800 amendments. And who made these changes, they say, "The Cloud" -- "The Cloud." And the BP didn't make any repairs? And they consider that, do not give God, it does not work out that before the elections a language law has been passed. Here's what the authorities say, we've done, and now the Supreme Council is guilty of not accepting it, maybe that's how it works. It won't work, Peter Alexiovich, it won't work. Because everyone sees this power taking care of people, everyone sees what payments they pay every day, every month to retirees, to our mothers, to our grandmothers, who can't go to the hospital to buy a pill, because they have to pay for gas, because they can't pay because they're conscious citizens. And today the government is telling us that they're putting Naftogazu on the job of increasing the production of Ukrainian gas to eighteen. Ten billion cubes. And let's think about who's a little older, the economic geography of the 9th class of Ukraine. How much did Ukraine get? 70 billion cubes, 70 billion. Where did it go? They say they've exhausted the lineage. Maybe they're exhausted. And how do you see that dozens of Naftogaz gas licenses don't go on, and companies that can extract gas can't? How can we view the situation of the transfer of land to the district councils, where gas can be obtained, and those councils do not make decisions? And he says to us, "What can we do?" Yes, are you in power or where? You're going to tell me you can't cancel the millions' wages of Kobolev and the lieutenants? You can't tell and say that you can make normal wages for officials who sit on government funds who use national nadrama, who resell national gas, which is the property of the people of Ukraine, according to the Constitution? And what do we have? So I'm still on the list, so give me three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u128	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u129	I'm going to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u130	I'm watching.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u131	And what do we have? And we have what the authorities themselves have done, and I'm saying that Ukrainian gas costs 2,000 dollars per thousand cubes, plus supply, plus taxes and even 30 percent of income taxes, and they say, well, 3,000. And then the Kabmin is putting out 8.5 gas, and it's going to be 12, and then the big businessman, Naftogaz, has 2,000 gas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u132	Two and a half minutes to go. There was just three more minutes, please, 2.5 more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u133	Selling at the price of the government in the Cabinet of Ministers. They're big businessmen who make money on it. They took the 2, they sold the 8, they said they were going to be 12. And they won't let us grow gas because they tell us how we're going to pay off those debts that we've accumulated as predecessors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u134	I don't understand what's going on with the system. Two more minutes, please. Two more minutes. There were two concerts combined in six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u135	I realize that the authorities don't like it when you talk not just about the password but about the numbers and the facts. So if the government, if the Cabinet of Ministers, if this state stock company Naftogaz, with wages of millions of dollars, thought about people, thought about how to give people what they own -- natural wealth -- at least at the price of profit, and not at 300 percent, that would be the national government. But we don't have that kind of authority in the country. None. And they say we can't do it, we can't do it. The team of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, represented by 20 people's deputies in parliament, has banned the export of roundwood. Do you know how many jobs have been created? Do you know how many people get paid at woodworking enterprises? And you know how many metallurgies got jobs because of our Act to Raise Excise on Metal Smacks? They say there's an Ahmatov factory, there's another Pinchuck plant, there's someone else. Please tell me, can you take them back? Can you reprivatize them? Tens of thousands of carpenters can be driven out of the street? No, it's not. What will they do? They'll go to the stock market, they'll say, "Give us a unemployment allowance"? So this is the economic development of the country? So who's fighting for the development of a country that's struggling with poverty, who's demanding a minimum wage raise, who's raising the issue of a fair pension? And not these taxes that were collected from 12 billion Euros were distributed before the elections, and they say, here we raise you. But look, from May 12th to May 12th, you're going to have an extra pension. But you remember what we gave you, so don’t forget who he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, the next performance is Silantier's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u137	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians, I would like to dedicate my speech to people with disabilities on the subject of employment. This problem remains key both to society and to such individuals. Because of their work, people with disabilities integrate into society, and they have the sense that they need a state. Instead of giving money taxes from the state budget to people with disabilities so that they don't sit under the feet of government officials and make them uncomfortable, the state in charge of government and other executive authorities should create conditions and enable these people to be useful to society and self-realize -- as is done in countries of Europe and the world. Instead, we have sad statistics: in Ukraine nearly two million people with disability of working age. Of these, only 1 out of every 4 people works. Unfortunately, this year this trend continues. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party team believes that it is for the State to show an example of how people with disabilities should be employed. At the same time, it is the representatives and employers of the non - government sector that employ such persons today. At the same time, the State, in particular the authorities of the State and local self - government, simply took up and pulled away from the process. What are the main reasons for this? The first is harsh quotas for employers who are practically unfulfilled. Next is lack of motivation for employers, lack of sanctions for the non-employment of disabled employers funded by the State budget. There is also the absence of a clearly defined body responsible for employing people with disabilities in this process. The Radical Party team in charge of Oleg Lášk knows what to do and how to solve this problem in the legislative plane. Our proposals are as follows. The first is to identify the only body responsible for employing people with disabilities. Next is to establish a national register of persons with disabilities. Also increase the effectiveness of vocational training for people with disabilities and access to vocational education. Next is the equality of employers before the law on the employment of people with disabilities, so that the law applies and obliges not only private business to employ people but also the State to be accountable to people with disabilities for their employment. The next step is to introduce more flexible approaches to job quotas for people with disabilities. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party will do its utmost to ensure that people with disabilities have their rights and a decent life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Vitaly Pisarenko, we invite you to speak. Excuse me, Valery Pisarenko. You made a deal, Mr. Valérie. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. You know, I wanted to make a statement today about the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers actually moved away when we asked him, we're asking questions about social policy. And we get receipts either from one ministry or from another. In recent times, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers and the current authorities have promised many improvements. Finally, by the year 5, one month before the election, they promised to increase their pensions and started paying them off, promised to demarcate subsidies, and made them available with cash to help people solve their daily problems. Now they've promised to spend money on the birth of children. The only thing they forgot was that all of these payments were cancelled by the same people who now, a year before the election, oh, a month before the election, these payments start again, even in smaller numbers. But I think it's very good, even now, but they're making social payments. I want to talk about one more category of people and give the Cabinet one more thought, maybe they'll meet here. Children of war are a category of people who have been forgotten at all. These are hundreds of thousands of people who did not know childhood, who really knew the great tribulation and the great tribulation of children. They're people who expect when the state repays them. Sadly, for the State, human life has become an uncomfortable article of expense. And today, hundreds of thousands of court decisions, and I want to point out that it's the court's decisions that people have already passed and the state is obliged to pay them in court, they're waiting for their money back, what the state needs them to do. Everyone forgot today. Perhaps before the election, we should remind ourselves that even so, without judicial decisions, they would have to pay. But if you don’t pay any more without a court decision, make the decision of the courts, and then you won’t talk about what court reform is doing. You disrespect court decisions, you disrespect people who have the right to social pay. Unfortunately, the social function of the state has been lost in recent years, and the state is only working on bonuses for Naftogazu's head, and the state is working to give some presentations that are now empty and people are not feeling any better. That's why we're going to the Cabinet of Ministers -- the children of war are waiting for your payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u140	Thank you. And the next speech, please, is by the people's deputy Kirsch. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u141	Alexander Kirsch, the city of Kharkiv. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we need to protect a simplified tax system. This system doesn't even assume corruption, because it's simple, and you can see everything. And this is the system, because it's very simple, it's impossible to go around, and that's why it's the most effective way to protect Ukrainian taxes, because it's cheap, and it's appreciated by entrepreneurs, and they have the opportunity not to see taxpayers very often. And it's the only way to form both the middle class and the employment of the population, to make real demand cost-effective and at the same time to make Ukrainian goods. Why are they always saying that the only tax is money laundering? We know how money laundering happens, there's a whole other tool. And the sole taxpayers actually have more tax burden than the so-called big businesses, just because they're less fortunate to see taxpayers, but they even pay more taxes in percent than ordinary entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is necessary to increase the circulation that confers the right to be on the sole tax. The first group in our bill does not include 300,000, but one and a half million in the second group, not one and a half million, but 10 million. In the third group, it's not 5 million, it's 40 million dollars. When it's said that 40 million dollars is very much, I'll remind you that according to Ukrainian micro-enterprise legislation, micro-enterprises are up to 2 million euros, up to 63 million dollars. I mean, even if there was our limit, which we would have offered one and a half times as much, it doesn't go beyond the limit of micro-enterprise. And what's now 5 million is more than 12 times less than the micro-enterprise border. So to be on a single tax even to a group that has the largest circulation, you have to have this circulation 12 times less than the limit of microenterprise, which, of course, can't be true. As for small businesses, there is a legal limit of 317 million dollars, and now 63 times less. We're only offering eight times less. So you have to increase the limit of that circle that allows you to be on a single tax, because if this line was almost $2 million earlier, it's only $200,000, that's 10 times less. And where there's only one tax, there's taxes, there's goods, there's purchasing power demand, and there's a middle class. So the only tax is the basis of the economy, the heart of the economy, and the economy is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u142	Thank you. And the next performance, please, Egor Sobolev. I'd like to have a word with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u143	I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament and the Ukrainians living in Ukraine once again to what we need to protect, to ensure the rights of our fellow countrymen who live or live abroad, particularly their electoral rights. There will be presidential elections in less than three weeks. Whoever is elected President will not represent millions of people who are citizens of Ukraine and do not live in occupied territories, not in annexed Crimea, but live in successful states of the world from Canada to Australia. In Poland, there are now only officially 1 million Ukrainians. It's estimated that this number is actually twice or four times that. Do you know how many polling stations will be created there? Four. This means that a maximum of 20,000 Ukrainians will be able to vote. I'm not talking about the situation in other countries. In Canada, in the United States, there are people all over Europe who really are our people, who don't forget that they are Ukrainians, who have done a lot during the Eromaydan, during the war for independence, who are doing a lot more and more successfully in the diplomatic direction. They will not be able to vote. It's a simple thing. In order to notify the election register of a new place of voting, they have to go across the country and write to the embassy a written statement that is devoid of any sense. The voter register has long been electronic. One of the expenses of taxpayers for shipping, bringing this claim to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kiev, and then to the voter register is a huge amount of money we're throwing in the wind. We offered one decision, along with my colleague, the committee head with IT Alexander Danchenk, to correct this situation, to give our people, our citizens an easy opportunity to report that they live in another city and they want to vote there. The next step, I repeat, is to expand, increase the number of areas where Ukrainians will be able to vote for the Ukrainian President, for the Ukrainian Parliament. Once again, successful states, including France, elect representatives to Parliament abroad. There's a senator, he often visits Kiev, meets French people here who live in Ukraine because he represents them. We need to take advantage of this experience as soon as possible. This is very important for the creation of a successful Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma is now six minutes away because his colleague Papiev is also giving him the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u145	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Continue the topic of a successful country. The first thing to do is to make sure that this country succeeds, it needs to create conditions so that people don't run away from Ukraine. On the one hand, we are happy that we have been able to use the visaless. But I don't know how many people went to Vienna to the opera, to Paris for coffee, I just know that all the people who are experts in their business today are mass leaving Ukraine to find their jobs. I understand that gomino. "Damn!"which is accompanied today by the President of Ukraine when he comes to the region to meet people. If there are no imported buses for public servants of those working in health care in culture, education, these corridors, they constantly put the very uncomfortable position of the President of Ukraine. Why? Peter Alexiyovich, I'll explain to you why, from my point of view. Maybe you'll agree, maybe you won't. As long as there's a Cabinet of Ministers sitting here, it says that there's nothing wrong with our country, as long as the billboards hang, and it says, "The government of Groysman. " I don't know how the Groysman government differs from the Cabinet of Ministers, that's fine. And there's a completely opposite situation in places. Today, I am very surprised by the Prime Minister's response to the denial of information from the United Nations mandated monitoring mission on human rights, which says that 700,000 pensioners living in eastern Ukraine do not receive pensions in connection with occupation. As a result, people flee from Ukraine. Peter Alexiyovich, I don't know if you know, but where the country might be where more than two thousand scientists working in the health field don't get paid for three months. Why did the Minister of Education Greenevich approve budgets for all scientific developments in December? Why has the Ministry of Health not yet done so to this day? And what's more, I can tell you that on the appropriate committee back in December, all the proposals from research institutions were discussed. Then the papers came to the deputy minister. There is such a deputy minister, Peter Alexiyovich, called Linchevsky, you know him. This is the person who made you the authority, the pre-election slogan, "It's cancer, they're all going to die." It also applied to people who suffer from oncology. And he was talking about the political future that everyone would die, the one working in that government today. For three months, a man kept papers to confirm his scientific work. Today, documents have been issued that have been approved by the Institute of Hearts of four programs, and the Donetsk Institute of Traumatology of three subjects has been approved for one and a half years. What can people do? Scientists who have spent their entire lives in science have no wages today. They come home, there's kids, there's nobody. It's a shame to say, it's a relation to science. Moreover, on March 11th, the same Lynchevski, who is protected by the government, says that by the 19th number, I ask you to submit your proposals for restructuring. Three months without pay, and then seven days later, please make an offer. Where have you seen such things in a civilized country? Who wants to join the European family? Moreover, Todurov’s cardiosurgeon is known worldwide. Peter Alexiyovich, your whole faction was at the Heart Institute elections. There was a unanimous vote for that person. It was supposed to be a contract. There's a law that says you have to make a contract with a person within a month. It's been three months. There's no contract. And here, at the suggestion of Vice Prime Minister Rosenka, Deputy Covtonjuk says we are operating within the limits of the law. What's going on, Peter Alexiovich? This is actually the reason why people are yelling "disgusting." Toduroov goes into surgery every day, he saves people's lives. If you don't want to continue the contract with a man, call her and tell her no, and he'll sue for his rights. You've been keeping people on the hook for three months. This is at a time when the World Bank’s Ministry of Health, which is designed to reorganize health care, directs ten people to England, ten people, to pay the World Bank’s 800,000 dollars to be paid, with interest. Who's being sent? What is there to learn, please tell me, Covtonjuk, Petrenko, Ryabtsev, the minister's advisors? And I'll tell you why. Because today people were recruited to serve as state expert at the Directorate of Strategic Planning for Eurointegration, they took a master of land administration and cadastre with the experience of the operator of factory stations as cashier of the Chamber of Commerce, as the head of the Expert Group on Health Reform Brand Manager Promotions, promotion of beer brand manager of trademark chocolate. It's everywhere. That's where the ignorant work. These ignorant people are doing everything they can to make you cry "disgusting."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenko will take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u147	Dear Ukrainians, you know that in a few weeks the President's election will take place, and there is such an impression that now is the time of the last "hotels" when the people who, thanks to the current President and his corrupt vertical power have become richer, are now simply packing up to ensure their safety after the change of power. In particular, according to my information, it is now planned to purchase Rinat Ahmtova's DIK company another round of shares in the secondary market, and is preparing to obtain all necessary permits at the Antimonopoly Committee level. And in order to take away the uncomfortable people, so that no one would question the indulgence issued a few months ago, because it turns out that we have Ahmethov is not a monopolies, they force one of the members of the Antimonopoly Committee of the light of Panaiotide to remove uncomfortable people and unnecessary ears when they give all necessary permission. All of this is happening at a time when today, thanks to all the corruption schemes, thanks to Rotterdam Plus, Ukraine is already buying electricity from the Ahmetovo coal power plants 50 percent more expensive than the same Ahmedov sells the same electricity to Hungary, to a neighbouring country. The latest statistics that are impressive. Think about it. In February, Ukraine bought two thousand 167 dollars per megawatt-hour from thermal power plants. While in Hungary he was selling this for a thousand 530 bracelets per megawatt-hour. So it's cheaper to sell in Hungary than we as Ukrainian citizens eventually buy it through appropriate industrial energy algorithms and so on. This is the price of corruption in Ukrainian politics. And another example that I want to publicize and warn everyone. Yesterday, there was an attempt to obtain permission from the Antimonopoly Committee, which is the reason why Victor Medvedchuk's environment is going to hide one of the brightest, most powerful assets that came into their hands during the reign of Dusty. It's a so-called Prykarpatzadrans pipeline, which is now being developed into a Swiss firm, and they're trying to transform it into a Belarusian bitumen plant, which last year tried to buy Centrenerego, so it was removed from this competition because its origins were also not fully understood. This is happening now that in the last weeks before the election, everyone wants to guarantee a peaceful life in case of a change of power. And in particular, Mr. Medvedchuk is a person who is trying to be here a year later, in the session room, to become a member of the Supreme Council, and here through Parliament, to plant Russian peace and Russian ideology, because you know that this person.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u148	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u149	Thank you very much. You know that Medvedchuk is a member of the Putin family, and thanks to his political satellites he has already warmed up his seat in parliament. And in order for no one to touch his assets, because of the Ukrainian authorities controlling the powder, he's trying to hide them on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, the next speech is the National MP of Sporish. Also six minutes because he has spoken from the national deputies Kozachenka and Chervakovi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u151	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Of course, I thank first and foremost those who gave me the word. And I would very much like to say today that it is difficult to work as a senior if you want to work. I think party lists are much better. Because you're coming to the county, and there's always trouble, there's trouble for everyone, and I want to help. Sadly, though, what we can do can help. I'll tell you what, I've been on the road recently, and I've received a reply from the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on behalf of Minister Omelan. And, you know, the main thing is that they recognize this road T 0233, on Winnitzkin, is the limestone, the high-rise, the Crusader. They recognize that this is the road of general use of state importance. And, you know, first of all, I'd like these to show these a few slides, there's not much to see how these roads are. Now, look, this is the road of national importance. One, please, it's in the village of High. Look, right now, there's cars on the sidewalks, there's dirt on the knee, there's holes like that. Well, I guess. Maybe to put them to sleep, it doesn't take a half-car to do everything, it's just scary, it's a road of national importance. Odessa-Rani's resting it, it wasn't even close. I'll tell you what happened. Look at the holes. And, you know, it's a direct miracle that it doesn't even believe that it could be expensive. Look, there's cars running around on the sidewalks, pits on the pit. This is the road of national importance in Kishen, where cars travel to Odessa. And cars. The cars are coming back. They come to this road, they give back about a mile away, and they come back through. and travels about 50 miles [50 km] round and round. And, you know, it's a shame that I dated Slavomir Novak two months ago, and two months ago I told him this situation. And I'm saying, I'm not asking you to do something this big, let's do it this way: send someone there from the highways of the area, the manager or the deputy, let him come and just go, kilometers of this road. And you think. I thought, well Slavomir Novak, let his assistants, who listen, let him just, well, think, if he really, from our Europe and so on, he responds, recorded my phone number, shook his head, yes, thank you, everything will be fine, and nothing has been done at all. I'm surprised, I'm already wondering why that is. Why is it that the leader of the Storks couldn't, in fact, send his subjects to this road. I'll tell you that even the governor of our area wanted to come back on this road. And I'm very sorry, but at the same time, I'm going to say that there's already a pensioner involved in repairing this road. Because these pensioners from our village, which is there, are gathering 5, 10, 20 bracelets. Further, the local community is raising funds. Because it says here that you're using local budgets and stuff. You know, the local budgets, the village council completely, I'll tell you, these roads are ready to help. But if there's a road of national importance, I'm not saying that they don't build in us the roads of national importance, they build, of course, but at the same time I'd like to. Of these, for example, 7,000 kilometers of roads and 10,000 kilometers of roads that are planning to be built this year, well, build 9,000 999, and this kilometre can be built here. We can rebuild it so those cars don't come back. It seems to me that any kind of problem can be solved, it would only be a desire. Sadly, though, there is no such desire. And that's why I think I'd really like to do it today, first of all again, to ask Slavomir Novak himself to answer for his words. I wish they'd come to see us for five minutes, five minutes at a time. And they would have decided, they'd have understood that this is the road, the Romanians were building the road during the war, they were starting to get the stones, the ones that were being built by now in the 43rd year, the Romanians were not being repaired. And, you know, I'm ashamed when I get out of this rostrum a couple of times, and everyone thinks he doesn't have any problems except the roads. But again, if I wasn't a major, I wouldn't be doing these roads. And I think it's going to have to be decided here, and it's going to have to be done by the U.S. Department of Infrastructure. Because today it is a shame, a shame, that such roads are unfortunately also of national importance. Besides, I'd like to say a few more words because we're having a seed campaign in the village right now. And, you know, it's very common that, again, fertilizer prices are rising. Well, anyway, the dollar is falling and the prices are rising. We know perfectly well both on the GSM and so forth. Well, why don't we settle today so these poor farmers can sown, so they can sow and have some, make some profit to this state. I think we should pay attention here, too. And, above all, to the end. Artek, Young Guard. I would very much like the government to really pay attention to them. I asked questions to our government today, and they said that perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u152	15 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u153	And there is hope. I would very much like to have our budget. The budget committee could have called attention to this and done everything possible to fund Young Guards and Artec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u154	Thank you, Your Honor. And the people's deputy Mustafa Nayem is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. First of all, I would like to address the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Vasil Gritsak, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, Minister of Interior Arsen Awakov, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Sergey Knaziev, on the situation that has taken place in the city of Odessa and in the Odessa region. You know, over the past year and a half, there's been a systematic attack on activists and public figures in this town, but now we need to move on and systematically evaluate what's going on. We know that in 2017, 40 people captured the school's military airport in Odessa. This airport is still blocked. Part of this area is now occupied by private structures that belong to the so-called network company. This week, one of the Odessa activists, Michael Kulawov, made a formal appeal, a report of a crime to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to the head of the National Police, the Security Service, and the Attorney General, specifically indicating what was going on in the city. For a long time, the names of these people were not called because they were thought to be unnecessary. Last year, our fellow journalist, Christina Berdinsky of "New Time," she made an investigation into who actually belongs to Odessa. We hoped that then criminal persecution, criminal conduct, would begin — that was not the case. And now we're officially addressing, not us, but activists to the law enforcement agencies that there's an organized criminal group in Odessa that's headed by Vladimir Gallanternik. His political wing, now headed by the city, is Mr. Truhanov. It also has a strong wing led by Mr. Bosenko Volodymyrovich. The law enforcement wing, which provides cover for all crimes in the city, is the procurator of the Odessa region of Oleg Žuchenko. All these messages and all this information -- I'm now quoting from the report of Michael Kulawa's crime -- are now being transferred to the law enforcement agencies, and we're expecting criminal conduct to be recorded and recorded. I specifically want to talk to you about who they've been attacking all this time. In the last five and a half years, she was attacked in the city by Alina Radchenko, who was brutally beaten by Svetlana Podpala, who was also brutally beaten by Oleg Mikhailik, shot in the back, you know what happened to him then; Sergija Sternenka was attacked three times, Vitalia Ustimenko, who was attacked in Odessa, and here she was caught in Kiev, and Truhanov's aunts were beaten in court. All these things are happening now. And we call now separately to the Attorney General: please take the matter of the investigation of Vitaly Ustimenko to Kiev. The indictments you've filed against the court are now returned because it's miscompromised, just unprofessional. These things need to be taken to Kiev because at the local level, they are poured out, poured out, and no one is investigating them. Many people who stopped the Odessa People's Republic in the 14th year are now under attack by a local pro-Russian criminal group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u156	Thank you. And the next performance, please, Borislav Bereza. Borislav Bereza, next address, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u157	There is now a run for the Presidents of Ukraine. Almost. A tour of candidates. So almost every candidate, when he arrives, tells us that he will do anything, and in Ukraine there will be order, order, and everything will be fine. I don't know what the presidents promise, but when I meet citizens, every time the same story goes off the streets of our cities, when is the playful illegal business? When will these game "chalmans" finally disappear from our cities? The trinity now resembles Las Vegas more than Las Vegas itself. Kiev now resembles Las Vegas more than the largest city, more than Macau, which is also the center of China's gaming business. I want to ask, how much money does the state get for this? Zero! Zero! How many jobs does the State receive from which taxes are paid? Zero! Because it's all a Syrian business that law enforcement, local administration, and criminal. I have a question. If people talk to me, why do people, you don't go out and if the state doesn't want to destroy this business, if the state is hiding, why don't you decide? Because the state is you, people! You Ukrainians! If there's people in this room who are hiding this business, if in high offices people don't notice what's going on in the streets, because they don't walk in these streets, you walk, you live in these places. So maybe you'll clean up your own streets? Take the administration by the hands of the police and bring them to these places and beg them to do their work. Because besides you, no one needs it. That's why I want to address you Ukrainians. Please, when the presidential candidates come to see you, ask them how they will address this problem. How will they clean up the streets of Ukrainian villages, cities, and how will they clean up illegal gambling facilities? And the main question is, what's the time frame for them to solve this question, and when will the Ukrainians get rid of that burden and the state gets the money from separate places? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Please give the next speech. People's MP Sidorovich is invited. I'm sorry, I missed you, Mr. Solovay. Excuse me for God's sake. Please have a word with me, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u159	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear colleagues, I have traditionally tried from this high rostrum to draw the attention of the responsible authorities to the problems of the district that are acutely located today within the upper, lower and lower regions of Svetinski and Kosova. In the last month alone, I have spent more than 20 meetings with people. Of course, people have a lot of questions that are on the agenda today. But perhaps if by generalizing and summarizing what hurts them most, today the question of road conditions, particularly within Gutsulshire and at Atonement, is question number one. Because the unsatisfying state of roads just makes it impossible for any region to develop. I want to remind you that we have adopted, successfully adopted and ratified the Ukrainian State Road Fund Act. And over the past few years, we have been able to repair more than 100 kilometers of state-owned roads within the Upper East, Kosovo, and Snetna regions. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that this is only a small part of the repair that these areas need. There's still a disgruntling of the Snittin Kosov road. Practically cut off the first united territorial community formed in the Kosovar region — the Cosmic United Community — from a normal relationship that makes it impossible to develop. The road Rožniv – Corners, Zabotov – Rožniv and a number of other roads is in poor condition. So when I go from this rostrum to the minister of infrastructure, to the head of the Krarutodor Novak and the manager of the Ivano-Frankov Oblast, I demand the inclusion in the 2019 list of roads that will require repairs, the first road: the Schnitin-Kossov, the Pistin-Kosmach-Jablounov-Kosmach roads, the Roznev-Kotov-Roznev roads. These are the sections of the road that are now in the most critical condition, and these roads and their non-renovation have led to the fact that these regions cannot develop effectively. And I want to point out that it is the repairs of these roads that can allow and give impetus to the development of these locations. Taking this opportunity, I appeal to the Supreme Council secretariat and to the leadership of the Supreme Council to present today's speech in the form of an official parliamentary address to the Minister of Infrastructure, the head of Ukraine and the head of the Johno-Frankow District Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u160	Thank you. Please make a presentation by the national deputy Yuri Solovia as a parliamentary address. And now six minutes, please, for Mrs. Valeria Zarzorgko's speech. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u161	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! During the fifth year, the authorities finally declared a fight against poverty. Today, we have all heard from this high rostrum that the government boasts about increasing the welfare of the Ukrainians and protecting the low-security population that seems to be happening. What, though, really? And in fact, each of you can see that prices of utilities are going up dramatically, especially for gas, which is already more than 58 billion dollars in municipal debt. We see that we have the lowest wages in Europe. We see that millions of young Ukrainians do not see prospects in their own country and are forced to become migrant workers and to travel abroad in search of a better destiny. We see that pensions are more like taxes, and people who have worked decades to make this country's economy stronger should not live today, but survive on these costs, because they can't even pay the utility bill, buy the drugs, provide the most necessary needs. The Radical Party team does not agree with this. We're proposing another way. Our path is the adoption of a moratorium on gas prices and the provision of normal prices for utility services for the population; it is an investment in the production of its own gas, which will allow today to receive gas at a low price, which will provide all the needs of Ukraine's housing and utilities with its own Ukrainian gas; it is a return to government officials. I'll remind you, one and a half billion dollars were written by Naftogaz NAC officials illegally, and using these funds to buy counters for the population, because the government says there's no money, so we know where to find these funds. We're proposing a real reanimation of the economy. The RPL plan is an industrial reform package presented in Mariupola last year. The main plan is the Ukrainian draft bill, which will give preference to domestic producers. It's an industrial park building; it's promoting investment in the economy; it's protecting these investments; it's reducing tax pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, which is going to be the foundation of the economy; it's a developed industry; it's a country that's going to be able to grow wages and pensions for all Ukrainian citizens. We are often reproached as if we had a commitment to the EU. The Radical Party faction has repeatedly referred to us as joining the EU. But we want to join the EU as an equal partner, not as a raw colony. We want our citizens to live with dignity. We want to preserve human potential here in Ukraine. We want to stop labour migration. We want to stop the brain drain. We want to see young Ukrainian scientists who can stay here and find work here in Ukraine instead of going abroad. We are for the energy security and the energy dependency of the country to be real. So that we don't buy reverse gas and say we turned down 100 percent of Russian. To extract our own Ukrainian gas, we increased its production. To talk about the restoration of the country’s coal industry, which is unfortunately completely neglected today. And if formerly the employees of the Selidivwowiel State Enterprise were just talking about problems, now it's Volin and Lviv and Luhanskina, the whole coal industry is neglected. There's something about using renewable energy sources that are a global trend, and unfortunately they're not developed at all in Ukraine, because it's a reduction in electricity tariffs, it's a pure environment, it's saving the environment for our future generations, and it's an investment that can come to the country through foreign companies that will extract it if the market is transparent and regulated. In particular, I want to talk about the election. It's a very dirty campaign. It's the dirtiest thing in the history of Ukraine. War of compromises. Many provocations. Scandals. "Ucrobronprom." Search the headquarters. Active use of law enforcement as a tool in this pre-election fight. What can we say? Even sociology today, we have this know-how, not as a means of measuring social opinion, but as a means of increasing the ratings of some of the candidates who ordered these investigations through the publication of such false sociology. Candidates compete with dirty technologies and compromises, not with knowledge of voter problems and software offers. Our plan is: a strong economy, high social standards, strong diplomacy, increased ownership of the country, strong armies, and strong defenses. And remember, Oleg Láska’s Radical Party has a clear plan for bringing the country out of crisis. The election's almost over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u162	Thank you. And the next talk, please, is by the honourable colleague of Hennadi the Crimson.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u163	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! I'm going to talk about one of the most painful problems today. I think that each one of us, my fellow national deputies, and not just the nationals, is facing this problem. This is a problem of rehabilitating children with disabilities, raising children who are full of orphans, including having no opportunity to provide housing after completing schooling, or after 23 years. In this section, me and my colleagues passed Bill 10111 on the protection of the housing rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In this bill, we offer literally a few things. The first question is that there is no right of an orphan child after 23 years to be and to be on a housing basis, and he has no right to have housing from local authorities or from the state at all. The second norm that we propose and what we propose in this bill is to offer so-called money compensation to ensure that the child has adequate housing after 23 years. We're not talking about the apartment, but we're talking about at least a room or even a bed-room so that the kids can have a roof over their heads. It's a very serious and important bill. I know that the Committee on Youth Policy has considered the bill, supported it with some observations. I would like to say as the first author of this bill that we are ready to make any changes to the second reading. But one way or another, the bill should be put into the halls, and I would like it to be considered in Parliament as soon as possible. In parallel, I would like to point out that in the district where I work, especially in the Kagarlic region, along with the Ukrainian Medical Center for the Rehabilitation of Children with Organic Damage to the Central Nervous System, also with the District Administration, we have come to the conclusion that we need to create so-called territorial centres to rehabilitate the children concerned. Today, there are nearly half of the district’s heads, nearly half of the administration itself, with work visits. I'd just like to refocus, we can create, we have a charity that can help us create a proper rehabilitation center. To do this, we simply need to transfer the appropriate hospital room to the hospital’s balance sheet so that the fund can repair and we can provide adequate assistance for the rehabilitation of the children concerned. This will be supported by more than one hundred children in the Kyiv region – Kagarlicki, Obukhivski, Rokitnjanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u164	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u165	Tarostian, Boguslavsky, and other areas I'd like the district administration and the district administration to pay attention to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u166	Thank you, Your Honor. And the people's deputy Krivochatko is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u167	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, noble Ukrainians! I want to look at how medical reform in Zaporozhye is being implemented. I am deeply concerned that the reform aimed at improving the service of Ukrainian citizens is about saving their lives, on the other hand, in some cases putting their lives at risk. I want to bring in, and I'm very concerned about the methodology in which the hospital districts are formed. I am deeply concerned about the cuts in medical facilities in areas adjacent to me. And that's all done in the background of a completely decommissioned infrastructure. I'll give you an example. The Guliapil district and the city of Pólog is well - known, historically well - known. To date, however, serious questions have been raised by the district authorities regarding the closure of the hospital in Guliapil district. Instead, the transportation of complete service in the Powlov region. But maybe that's the solution right now, but there's a big problem, it's the road between Guliapolis and the Pollocks. Last year, the maternity ward was transferred to the city of Pólog (so is tautology). And there have been cases where the rapid delivery of the baby was carried to Prah for two hours. We had three cases where the birth was born right in the field, three cases where we had to take the baby right in the field. It's scary. And despite all of this, the administration insists on the need for optimization. Upgrading cot-beds, optimization of services at all, optimization of everything. I understand that this may be necessary, but no state, no government should take such serious measures without having the infrastructure to provide. There are rules on how fast it's gonna be, how long it's gonna take, and the emergency room is in general. It shows that during the past year 600, 500 people have passed through it. And what do we have? How to bring a person with serious problems along a road that does not exist absolutely is a tank range. And so I insist, I want to pay attention to both the Prime Minister and everyone on whom it depends, there's little money. Before taking these serious measures, at least repair the road between the births and Guliapolis. I've got everything. And unfortunately, the optimization in Zaporozhye region is that somehow more money is left at the disposal of the heads of administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u168	15 seconds. Thank you, you're done. And the people’s deputy, Derevyanko, is invited to the floor. Please, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. The closer we get to the beginning of the election, the closer we get to the day of the vote, the more we see the networks unfolding, the networks on the cluster of votes. As we can see, the authorities are trying today at the expense of black money, at the expense of money, to buy confidence in voters, preparing absolutely for counterfeiting, because this system doesn't want to give up and it doesn't want to have an honest election. Few technologies are used to show that there are only two, three, four candidates who seem to have some chance, and all the others do not even exist in nature. We want to say that this technology tells us that you, the honourable Ukrainians who are today who are supporting Ukraine without corruption, who want to have Ukraine without oligarchy, who are fighting today for the courts to finally start updating, and for the judges to be released automatically when the European Court of Human Rights decides that there is a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens in the Ukrainian judiciary. And this is our position, which predicts that twice a year, if this happens to Ukrainian judges, they automatically lose their position. It is you, the honourable Ukrainians, who are fighting to be Ukraine without cruelty, where we can protect both the legislation and the fact that all of our animals, who live with us today, including in our homes and in our apartments and on the street, are homeless today. Including you, the respected Ukrainians, who fight and defend Ukrainians' right to buy cars at normal prices, and also the cost of cars should not be higher than our European neighbours. And 10 percent of the blurry is a completely state-owned and correct position, both for Ukraine's budget, and for the Pension Fund, and for all the local budgets. It is you, the honorable Ukrainians, who are fighting for us to have the right to defend our weapons of fire. It is also you, the honourable Ukrainians, who are fighting for us to be able to vote electronically and also to resign those officials if they are lying if they steal, otherwise it is impossible to release them. It's also a huge number of Ukrainians, hundreds of thousands of our distinguished women, who we think should be more represented in power at all levels. Not only in the village council, but also in the district council, the Supreme Council, in the government. And that means that we're speaking with you, so that 50 percent of the women are represented in power. We are with you, and we stand for these positions. So I think it's very important that we not only be heard, but also seen, in two weeks, that we are seen to stand up for these very values. It's the value of having a normal tax reform liberal, where we're not being robbed by taxes, and we're paying taxes that are under control then used, without monopolies of oligarchics, with great competition in the entire business environment. So, dear Ukrainians, don't believe all these technologies. Let's do this: to show what we are, we're a huge number and we're standing down literally in two weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u170	Thank you, Your Honor. And I invite you to Michael Bondar's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, Buschina, Kamyanechtina, Radehivščina, Brodovščina Unfortunately, yesterday, I was unable to share my joy with the Brodys, especially with the 16th Brigade of a separate Air Force, the Ships. The minister of defense, Stephen Poltorak, was on his way to the opening of two dormitories. That's 32 million dollars spent on this. 250 military personnel will be provided with accommodations, this is a soldier's warehouse, a sergeant's warehouse. New dormitories with electric plates, new umbrellas, with great living conditions. And now the military won't be needing to get out of the countryside, but they'll be on the ground with these conditions and they'll be comfortable living. On more than one occasion, he approached the minister of defense to speed up both the disbursement and the start of his work. And I'm very grateful that this is all over, and these two dormitories are open. I know that there are plans on the line-up for the officers as well, including the construction of a 48-bedroom building in Brods, where boilers are already out and tenders are under way. The minister and deputy ministers repeatedly assured me that they had taken over the building. I think if it wasn't for the 19th year, then in the first, second quarter of the 20th year, a house like this would have been built, and officers would have gotten apartments in this house. So I am very grateful for your understanding. But I want to point out that it's not supposed to be like this, you know, it's kind of a holiday, and it's supposed to be the norm for our military to open these dormitories, build houses, provide them with apartments, all the social benefits they have to be kept by the state. So once again I want to thank the Ministry, I want to thank the government for caring for our military. Once again, I would like to welcome the volunteers to yesterday's Day of Volunteers! Peace, goodness, harmony, health, and victory are certain, as my fellow military officers tell me. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u172	We thank you very much for the up - to - date information and the timely presentation of our colleague. And as I understand it, I am now a colleague of our esteemed Michael Golovk, and this is the last performance for today, six minutes. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u173	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Well, the fact that the Ukrainian people live so badly, it's not our fault, it's their full credit, because almost 70 percent of Ukrainians go to the poverty line. We see their social situation getting worse, people refusing everything, they don't have money for food, they don't have medicine, they don't pay for utilities, they don't have debt for public services, they don't have money for food, they don't have money for medicine, they don't pay for public services, they don't pay for public services, it's now over 60 billion and it's still growing. Instead, we see how our authorities have become involved in corruption, in corruption scandals, and we see the powerlessness of our law enforcement officers and the newly created anti-corruption bodies who accuse each other of being unable to arrest, plant, arrest corrupters who profit from the army. They're not corrupts, they're already looting at war, they're treason at war. But somehow we don't see a criminal case involving treason, because the scale of theft is just terrible. But what we're trying to say is that we're not the only ones who have stolen from the army. Stealing in our country in all its spheres, and that's really scary, because if nothing changes, the prospects for the Ukrainian state just shut down. But the biggest scale of our Ukraine's robbery is in energy, it's in energy efficiency, it's in gas. And this company is as state-owned as Naftogaz NAK. Today, crimes, violations and theft are simply terrible and global for the Ukrainian economy. For example, we've seen the famous NAC Naftogazu leadership prizes of 342 million dollars per year. We remember that 46 million dollars, almost one and a half billion dollars in their prize for winning courts that Russia has not yet returned to us and is not going to return anything. How much money could you go to a barracks for the military?Oh, my God! How many weapons could you buy?Oh, my God! How many could really build roads?Oh, my God! But instead, we've seen that a bunch of criminals, corrupters, marauders are pulling out the last juices of our nation. And what did they give for our energy, for our energy efficiency in the country? How much did Ukraine increase natural gas production? Not at all. I didn't. But there's only a rise in losses. For example, a company like Ukrattransgaz, a stock company that, by the way, is the founder of NAK Naftogaz, totalled 24 billion dollars in 2017, lost 29 billion dollars in 2018. So in the last two years, the damage has reached over 50 billion. And this. Is that why NAC Naftogazu's leadership is giving itself a bonus? And for that, they put themselves in charge of this kind of salary? Isn't that an obvious crime? How many times did I go to the law enforcement office, to the NABU, to the BPO, to the prosecutor's office? No reaction. No one sees the crime scene. No one can see that we have looting, looting of our country. Everyone closes their eyes. Of course, the authorities cover one another. Obviously, we don't count on law enforcement, that they can't prove anything, that all matters will be taken up after the election, when the new government is in power, will be in the hands of the new president, if we can, in fact, bring those corrupts to justice. What scares me is that today’s elections are really one of the dirtiest in our country. We see the authorities, with good intentions, as if before the elections, they were going to raise pensions. Although the norm is direct, they once again broke the norm, it is a pension indexation. Nobody wants to do that. A one-off fee of 2.5,000 dollars is 2400 dollars, that's before the first round, and the second before the second round. What does that say? Unless it's a voter bribe, it's not. Special provocation and manipulation of the consciousness of low-income populations? Those Ukrainians who are beyond poverty, who are now truly desperate. Conduct the index, Your Honor. The government. I couldn't ask them questions today. Lead and enforce the law, give the people a proper pension! We figured that according to inflation, today's minimum pension would be 2,000, 900 dollars, not one and a half thousand dollars. Where's a thousand and a half dollars? You stole money from every Ukrainian in every family. Because you do not want to follow the laws of Ukraine, you do not want to take care of the lives and health of our Ukrainians. You only think about your offshore accounts, you think about your schemes, you think about how to clean up money, and you tell other stories to Ukrainians before the election. You don't have to buy, you have to carry out a normal reform, you have to make pensions worth living. And then there will be no debt, and there will be no Ukrainians following those poverty manuals, I call them, these grant manuals. There is no need for subsidies! First of all, it takes a fair price for gas. The second is an energy efficiency programme. The third is to increase wages and pensions due to the elimination of all corruption schemes, based on the withdrawal of the economy from the shadows, by the adoption of our "freedom" anti-oligarchy package of laws, where all those offshore schemes will be closed. And then there'll be the cost of the Ukrainian economy, of the Ukrainian army. And then the pensioners will live with dignity, and there will be no subsidies and no corruption schemes. That's why we urge: first, to change our situation in our country, we have to change, first of all, it's power, because power is rotting out of our heads. And today we have the opportunity to choose a new president -- a just, honest, decent Ukrainian, a defensive warrior, a man of courage. One is Ruslan Kosulinski. I call on all Ukrainians to come, vote for a nationalist, to be a candidate for the united forces of Ruslan Koshulinsky’s nationalists in order to change the country and clean up all this corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u174	Thank you. My friends, I was wrong, we've only got three minutes left and Mr. Mikhailo Bondar is handing over the word to his colleague, Mr. Saucer. I think we're just going to support this last speech by our distinguished colleague. Please. And then we'll finish our work. I'll be with you in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, during this week we have considered the most important issues that concern our country. This is our spirituality, a Ukrainian language that is more necessary than ever to establish by law, in order to have its shield, a spiritual shield from Moscow's information war. But unfortunately, we've only come up with 400 questions, amendments that we could consider, more of them in this room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But some political parties, some factions are trying to stall, but we Ukrainians, honourable colleagues, I'm addressing you, let's get together, let's find the power of will to be present here in order to adopt the law – the Law on Ukrainian Language, the state language of our country. That's the first one. The second thing I'd like to pay attention to. At present, when the fifth year of war comes, we begin to listen to certain slogans that come out of the mouth of some presidential candidates who put their ambitions ahead of national ones. We need to understand who the patriot of the presidential candidate is, and who the person who is temporarily working for Ukraine to be in the occupation of the Moscow horde. For the time being, many things have been done for five years because we know well that since early 2014, there was no such army. The army was looted. The army was stationed in all directions, beginning with weapons and ending with the social security of the military. At present, we know very well that our army is ready and ready to defend not only itself – our country of Ukraine, but also our Europe. And I would like to go to the Cabinet of Ministers to put aside in the Mikolai garrison 30, 69 apartments were finally placed on this spot so that their families would get housing that was purchased at the expense of the people of Ukraine. During the fifth month, the apartments are located in the city of Mikolai, in the Mikolai garrison, and they are not inhabited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u176	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u177	Not inhabited by the military personnel of our country of Ukraine. But we're gonna win. In the compound, power! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-15-m0.u178	Thank you, Your Honor. Ukraine will win a hundred percent. And, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank everyone very much for the fact that this week we have been working conscientiously on a very important Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language. I want to remind you that we have already passed 490 amendments and we will start this work on Tuesday, March 19th, we will continue to work on this bill. The plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place next week, on March 19, at 10 a.m. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today I declare closed. Thank you all very much.
