ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, can we move on to registration? Please take over all the jobs. So please take part in the registration and please register. [[10:04:29]] 355 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that, as early as Monday, I had instructed the Committee on Culture and Spirituality to work out, in accordance with the observations and recommendations of the European Court of Human Rights, Bill 4128-d on changing the religious communities of submission. And I'm convinced that today we need to mobilize and adopt this project, because this is what the situation in Ukraine needs. I want to remind you that on Tuesday, January 15, a few days ago, a local priest of the Moscow Patriarchate brought a bus to the village of Bronice Kamin-Kashir district of Wallin County of Moscow to take over the village of the village's Sports Council and to prevent the democratic process of the transition of the local Orthodox community from the Moscow Patriarchate to the Orthodox Church of Ukraine. These unknown men were held hostage by the village head and the secretary of the village council. The village council was able to unlock only the arrival of the police. This is just one illustration of the immaculateness of the task facing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Every day, dozens of Orthodox communities in various parts of Ukraine say they want to get out of dependence on a religious organization that has its own leadership center in the aggressor country. Our task as deputies, such as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is to organize this process so that the transitions can take place exclusively peacefully, in a civilized way on the basis of democratic principles, so that no court can challenge the will of the local community so that the paid "coats" cannot undermine the free will of citizens. This is what all Ukraine is looking for. Let me remind you that this is not just a religious issue, it's a matter of national security. And our duty as Parliament is not to allow any conflict on this issue in Ukraine. So we will prove that we, colleagues, are responding to the scale of the challenges facing the country. And I am convinced that today the national MPs are supporting my initiative. I would like to remind you that we are now continuing our consideration of the draft Social Services Act (4607). We're at 466. And now I'm going to call those changes that have been rejected, and the right-wing authors please prepare for the discussion. And to the rostrum, I invite the reporter, Maxim Burbak. So 466 right. Don't insist. 467th. Don't insist. I remind you, we are continuing our consideration of draft Law 4607. 468. Don't insist. 471. Don't insist. 473. The author does not insist. 478. Don't insist. 479. Don't insist. 480. Don't insist. 483. Don't insist. 489. Don't insist. 493. The author does not insist. 495. Don't insist. 496, Olena Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This is the final amendment of the Self-Help faction, me and the Semenah People's Deputy. We will not really insist on explaining why it was rejected. The amendment applied to the year of the actual introduction, we suggested 2019, but there was a technical correction of this error. In fact, I would like to say that there are very few people in this room right now, and very often we hear from different and national MPs, and the candidates are now in the President's office that people's lives are very difficult, that social politics and social protection are at the lowest level, that people need help, and that there are almost no political elites and leaders in this room to vote for this law that will help people who are in difficult circumstances. It's also after the violence, it's the unemployed, it's the homeless, it's the people who are in difficult living conditions, and the state has to help them at this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u4	Thank you. And there are no people in the room to vote, in fact, for an important complex system law that has been worked on for two years by both the public and the committee and the people's deputies. Right now we're going to see who really is for people and who is just talking and promising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u5	Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u6	I just want to call on all the heads of factions, heads of groups and deputies to come to the hall to vote on this basic bill, which will determine the system of social services in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u7	Mrs. Olena, do you insist on voting? No, you don't. Okay, thank you. 497. 498. 505 lashes. The author does not insist. 520 readjustment is rejected. Don't insist. 521 axles. The author does not insist. 540 correct. The author does not insist. 548th. Don't insist. 549th. Don't insist. 550th. Anointed, please insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u8	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. My application was for "The Ending Positions." But I think that the committee on this issue made, in principle, the optimal text of the bill. And I'm convinced that, really, the legislative act that is aimed exclusively at improving the social status of our citizens, actually providing social services to those who have actually found themselves in very difficult living conditions, and who have been working on for more than a year, the team has been working professionally. And despite the shortcomings that may be technical today, but in fact, I think it's an unprecedented piece of legislation that has accounted for almost 70 percent, maybe even more, of all the national MPs. I mean, what's he talking about? This suggests that today this legislative act takes into account the opinions and positions of almost all parliament. This is practically unprecedented. So today, the only obstacle to the adoption of this legislative act can be the fact that there are no deputies in the hall. And I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u9	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u10	And I am convinced that today, I think, all the presidential candidates and candidates for future parliamentary elections, and all those who actually say that they support the social guarantees of our people and who really supports them, they should go to Parliament and fulfil their constitutional duty to vote for this legislative act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u11	Maxim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u12	Dear colleague, thank you. This basic document was developed by our committee, which consists mainly of coalition members, for over a year and a half. But I thank all the deputies in this room from all the factions, from the MPs, who joined him in his second reading. So I think that this document will unite the session hall and it will be voted in the second reading, because it is an essential basic document that introduces a system of social benefits to all our population. So once again, I invite all the heads of factions and deputies to vote, and this document has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u13	Thank you. My colleagues, I want to let you know that there are literally a few rejected rights left, and for minutes in 5-7 we're going to move on to making a decision. And that's why I want to look at the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of Ukrainian national deputies. Please inform everyone that in 5-7 minutes we are moving on to a decision-making process, and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council to make an appropriate announcement for the national MPs as well. So this was a 550 revision. Anointed One does not insist on voting. 551st. The author does not insist. 552. The author does not insist. 553rd. The author does not insist. 559th. Don't insist. And so, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. Now I'm going to give three minutes of closing words to the committee representative. I would like to point out that some of the rights were rejected during the discussion. The chairman of the committee will propose which rights must be returned to in order for the law to be complete. And before I put the bill to the vote, I'm going to make an appropriate suggestion to go back to the lines that the committee is going to propose and that the reporter is going to propose. But during his report, I ask everyone to come into the hall, take up jobs, and prepare for the vote. Please, three minutes, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u14	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the suggestion of the national deputy Oksana, the sale was put in place for confirmation of the 212. This is a law that defines 17 powers of government, executive bodies of city councils, cities of regional importance, and councils of the united territorial communities in the social services sector. The negotiations were held, and a final version of the amendment was agreed upon by the MINSO. Ms. Oksana's sale had a note to paragraph 13 of this amendment. Therefore, I ask for confirmation of the 212, in which paragraph 13 of the amendment reads: "The number of social managers, professionals who provide social services, is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u15	Colleagues, agree with each other so that we don't have any misunderstandings. Mrs. Alexander. I'd like to ask you, is this just one thing to go back to, Mr. Maxime? One read, yes. So, colleagues, please come into the hall. I'll remind you, before the law is passed, I'm going to propose that I go back to this. Please take your jobs, come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] You agree that the position is unifying so that we don't split up on this side, because I understand it's very important that we go back and support it. So just consult, keep it brief, but consult. And I'll remind you: first, I'm going to put forward a proposal to support the 212 in that edition read by Maxim Burbak, the reporter, under the transcript, and once this amendment is supported, I'm going to put the whole law to the vote. Is that accepted? And, of course, with technical law. Are we all clear? Yes! Please come into the hall. We'll wait 30 seconds for our colleagues to consult. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take up jobs. I would like to point out that immediately after this law we will be considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the procurement of goods, jobs and defence services for import. An extremely important law that liberalizes the purchase of a defence assignment that will allow Ukraine to acquire new modern weapons for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Yeah, there's not gonna be a lot of lines, so I'm going to convince everyone after the vote to stay put. There will be few rights, in this law, and it will be immediately after the draft Social Services Act (4607). You got it, right? So, colleagues, the consultations are over. We're moving on to making a decision. Ready, yeah, everybody? I would like to stress that my first proposal is to support the 212 in the editorial that made it sound like the representative of the Maxim Burbak Committee. You got it, right? We're all clear. Vote! So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. The consultations are over. So, pay attention! I'm putting a motion on the vote so that number 212 will be supported in the line that came from the representative of the committee, Maxim Burbak. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Vote. Colleagues, be careful, we make decisions. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, support. I ask everyone to vote responsibly, we support. [[10:20:40]] For-167 Please, one minute, Burbak. It seems that not all of them have been taken care of. Please, Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u16	The honourable colleagues, who were appointed yesterday for confirmation, did not find the votes, i.e. they removed them, determined all the powers of government, executive bodies of city councils, cities of district importance, and councils of the united territorial communities in the provision of services. So the whole point of this bill in this direction is the full authority and responsibility of the authorities of local self-government and the state for the actual provision of social services. So without this amendment, this bill is not going to work. And then the representatives of the public organizations called after the events of yesterday, when they took off the paper, and they said, "Honorable, you're now accepting a document that won't work." So I ask everyone and my colleagues, from the Radical Party, who are now able to unite so that this project is not failed, to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u17	Agreed, colleagues? Because really the law is going to be cooled off without this amendment, it's the only amendment that's going to apply to confirmation. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. And please take your jobs. So, colleagues, I'm re-voting, so that we can support the 212 in the editorial, in which the reporter Maxim Burbak spoke. And I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Don't leave the hall. So let's go back. So, colleagues, I would like to vote in favour of returning to the 212. Everyone please come into the hall and take part in the vote. Colleagues, stop the debate! We're already working. Then we count each voice. So please support the offer to go back to the 212. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[10:23:37]] For 158. Show the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block - 63, People's Front - 55, Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 16, Radical Party - 3, Fatherland - 0, Will of the People - 2, Rebirth Party - 2. Colleagues, the committee claims that without this amendment, the bill will simply not work. Look, there's a proposal from the committee without paragraph 13, no 13 points. No 13th. Is that how it's done? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, for one minute, Maxim Burbak will be sounding a compromise amendment that the entire hall is supposed to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I'm here. We generally need to adopt this bill because it is fundamental, it defines the system of social services for the whole country. If there is such a proposal and such a position that paragraph 13 is not included in this direction at all, we agree that the number 212 is counted without item 13 as some factions point out. We want this bill to be adopted today. And so I ask you to come and vote, because there is no policy in this bill. The bill regulates the provision of social services to socially vulnerable groups. Why do you see politics here? And I can still say that the law comes into force on 1 January 2020 after the election of the President, after the election of the Supreme Council, and no one, if there's a remark that they're going to use as an administrative resource, is going to be used because in the 20th year. Stop the politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u19	Tell me, is that how you take a position without paragraph 13? Colleagues, look at me, is this position taken? Roger that. Is that the position taken? Roger that. So it is only important that we be able to take part in the vote. So it looks like we were able to go to a compromise position to support item 212, no 13 points. You're ready, aren't you? Then this proposal seems to unite the entire hall. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. So this is the law. And I'm voting on the proposal to support the 212 without paragraph 13. No paragraph 13. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. No paragraph 13. Vote. [[10:28:00]] For-179 So, colleagues, "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 61. I'll read it. People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 1, Self-Help – 17, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 5, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth – 3, non-fractional – 17. So suggest how we can proceed. Should we make a law without that law, Mr. Maxim? Colleagues, we agree on the final positions. The committee states that without this amendment, the law will not work. Colleagues, pay attention! I have once again held consultations, the committee claims that without this amendment, there is no sense and meaning of this law. And there is a threat to the adoption of a law that is impeccable. I'm offering a minute from the factions to exchange thoughts. Roger that. So let's do it as we please. Who? Papiev of the Opposition Block, one minute. And by factions, please raise your hand, who. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u20	Thank you. You know, this is a very important bill that forms a system of social policy in the state. So this law itself, it has to be adopted in principle. But the positions that are at odds with it, they allow us today to offer the most compromising option -- to send it back to the second, because without this 212 amendment, it doesn't work. Even if you took 13 points, it's not a bill that's already complex and doesn't contradict itself inside. So let's reroute it to the second. We have time, and we will accept it, but we will accept it in a way that would benefit the Ukrainians and our Ukrainian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u21	So the deletion of 13 is not a solution? It's not a solution. I see. Please, from. My colleagues, from Fatherland, who? Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u22	I want to point out that since the 14th year of this committee, there's been a system bill on social services that I've registered. Sadly, he was not considered. The most important thing that people need to get social services is transparency, and for you and me, as statesmen, it's verification control to get social services only for those who need it. This in this bill, neither the first nor the second. It won't make it any worse. It won't make it any better. And that's why I agree that it needs to be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u23	So your position is also that it's better for the second reading again, right? Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! The Social Services Act is very much needed by the country. In fact, social services in normal communities have been working for 10 years without a quality legislative base. This law is simple, normal, honest law before society. But today this room does not vote because there is a letter to be replaced. Today, MPs are trading with the government in this Social Services Act because the government has not paid them money for their socio-economic development. These are bribes to those MPs who vote for money! The Social Services Act should be voted on today. There's no point in not voting him. And the government will pay you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u25	The worst part is that such discussions begin on the very day that excessive laws are in place. Some strange coincidence, you know, that's when financial things start. Please, are the Radical Party desirable? From Front, People's Front? Anointing, right? From the People's Front, Amazanov, one minute. And prepare the BP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u26	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, colleagues, when we see today that certain factions by half, sometimes most of them don't vote for such a socially important bill, we understand that, in fact, they can go to auction. But let's think about yesterday when we started looking at this wonderful bill. When there were almost no deputies in the room, they actually took part in the vote, the right-wing announcement, and so on, only four or five deputies. I mean, nobody needed anything yesterday, except for the individual MPs who filed the papers and were interested in the legislation, and today someone's having a demarche, they're coming to work, but they're showing off their "fe." Today let's throw away your financial, some money issues there, let's throw away personalities, images and so on, we have to vote this legislative act forward, not for this call, not for this blackmail, but in fact this is the Law on Social Services for the Future, so that people in difficult situations get social services and social assistance from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u27	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u28	They received social assistance from the State. And in fact, this law is not aimed at anything but this. So today we need to consolidate and just mention to everyone who won't vote for this legislative act, in the future, what's going to be in their districts, what's going to be with them as candidates. That's why we vote yes. The People's Front supports 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u29	So Front thinks we should take it today, right? From Peter Prashenko's Block, the committee's chairman, Alexander Tretlyakow, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u30	I ask you very much to vote on this law today. In order for the law to work, it would take another three to four months for the Cabinet of Ministers to make all the documents required. If we don't do it today, it could take both a year and two. I'm asking the BP faction all of it, today it's only 60 votes, the date we've always given 100-110, and the bill will pass. I'm asking you to make all the factions. I support absolutely "self-help" what I said is, unfortunately, true. I rarely support Self-Help, but what the self-help manager said is true. That's why I'm asking him to vote today. There's no underwater currents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Did all the factions come out? So, colleagues, look at the situation: two factions made a proposal to re-read the law, and three factions took the position that we should adopt it today. But the law will not work without regulation 212. And so, colleagues, let's do this sequence. I'm going to do 212 again without paragraph 13. I hope we can support it, and then I'll move on to the adoption of the law itself. So, colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, take up your jobs. The first vote is to read 212 without paragraph 13. So I'm putting 212 to the vote without 13 points, as indicated under the transcript from Maxim Burbak's rostrum. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:38:24]] For 212 They didn't make it, I saw them coming. Take your jobs, colleagues, I'll read the factions. Take up jobs. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 84, "National Front" – 63, "Resistance Block" – 0 expressed their position, "self-help" – 17, Radical Party – 16, "Fatherhood" – 5, "Will of the People" – 3, "Party "Resurrection" – 4, non-fractional 20. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to take up jobs so that they can vote. Please prepare for the vote, and I think we've been able to find a compromise position, and right now it's important for everyone to be in the workplace. Please, colleagues, do not debate the adoption of the law, but stay in the workplace. I ask you to return to your posts and prepare for the vote. So I'm re-voting 212 without paragraph 13, without paragraph 13. And, colleagues, every voice we count. Please vote for everyone, and I ask your support. Alexander! Please vote and please support. We vote carefully, each voice. Voting, supporting. Vote, colleagues, please. [[10:40:02]] For 214 I'll do it again. Colleagues, heads of factions, please mobilize the national MPs. Whoever didn't make it, let him be in the workplace when the vote goes. So, colleagues, I see a group of MPs don't vote here, I don't understand. It's a social law. Please take your jobs, and I'll put it again. Fellows, look who's not around. So, colleagues, everyone's back to work? Can we vote? I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues, we can, can't we, Arthur? Everybody in place? Don't say they didn't make it. I'll put it to a vote. Colleagues, come back from your beds, please. Comrade Eugene! Comrade Eugene! Please, colleagues, I'm asking you from bed to return to the hall. I bet you to vote 212 without paragraph 13. Please vote and please support. Let's vote yes! Colleagues, we support, we support. Let's vote, colleagues. Voting, supporting. [[10:42:11]] For 213 Colleagues, I have only one way: to put it in a second reading and, if it doesn't pass, to send it again, I don't have any other options like the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I'm going to put it in. Please show by factions, please. Peter Dustenka's Block - 85. And here are the hidden answers to all the questions. 85. So, colleagues, I'm going to put the first vote -- draft Law 4607, which is number 212, but without paragraph 13. If this proposal doesn't get a vote, I'm going to re-read it. Not confirmed, really. So, no readjustment, good, no readjustment, good. So, colleagues, I'm putting you to a vote, asking everyone to take up their jobs. And I say, everyone who has not voted will be held accountable to the people, to society. Please specify how we should vote, Maxim Burbak. And now let's move on to the decision-making process. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you and I have been through all the revisions, and I can see that a completely apolitical bill is getting some color, some kind of deal is coming, it's unacceptable. I want to say that the committee believes that we have introduced technical and economic remedies in Article 7, and with the aim of harmonizing the rules of law, taking into account the discussions and observations of the General Legal Authority, please adopt legislation in general, taking into account such rights. Article 7 reads: "The social services system is the legal basis, principles, methods and forms of social services provision, a group of entities that interact at all stages of the social services organisation." The other one. In the first part of article 14, paragraph 1, the words “have the right to delegate” should be replaced by the words “in order approved by the central executive authority that ensures the formation of public policy in the sphere of social protection of the population may be involved”. Three. Paragraph 6 of Part One and paragraph 1 of Part Two of Article 14 should be deleted. Four. In article 15 words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u34	"social services register" is replaced by "registration of recipients and recipients of social services." Fifth. In the first part of article 25, replace the words "by three years" with the words "by a year." Six. Paragraph 4, Subparagraph 3, “Final positions” shall be deleted. And the 212 should be taken into account without paragraph 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u35	Colleagues, so if it doesn't work now, I'll put the second one back on the committee. So let's concentrate, if we get votes, the law will be passed, if we don't, we'll bring him back to the committee. So the first vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, we are already voting for the law itself, not for the amendments, but for the law itself. I ask everyone to be there and take part in the vote. I'd like you to come back from bed. And I'm voting on the draft Social Services Act (No. 4607) with the rights that the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Burbak Maksim Juryovich, has written under the transcript, with technical and legal rights on the ground and in general. I'm asking you, colleagues, to vote everyone. Please support an important social law. Vote! We're backing up! We support you, colleagues. Vote! Please be supportive. We vote and we uphold the law. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:46:27]] For 222 I'll be right back. Colleagues, I'll be back, four deputies. I'll go back to voting for the law. Don't come out of the hall, on the contrary, come into the hall, but we vote, every voice, and we count every voice. It's okay, isn't it? All right, colleagues, I'll be back first. Four people's deputies. Please, Mrs. Oksana, Mrs. Auntie! Four people's deputies. Guys, let's go back. I'm voting on the proposal. The first step is to return to the draft Social Services Act (4607). These are four votes that we did not have just enough to pass the law in general. So I ask everyone to prepare, and the first vote, I propose to go back to the draft Social Services Act (4607). Please vote, please support the return. Vote! We support you, colleagues. We're backing it up. Careful, every voice. We're backing it up. [[10:47:49]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Now, if you'll excuse me! No one moves away from the workplace, but everyone stays in the workplace. So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm voting on the draft Social Services Act (4607) with the rights that Burbak Maxim made and with technical legal rights in the second reading and in general. Very careful. Every voice, Oksana! Every voice. Please vote, please support. Vote, fellows! Social law, we support. Every vote matters, I ask you to be careful about supporting and voting. Andrew, we're backing up! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! [[10:48:42]] For 230 The law is passed. With hard discussions, colleagues. And such a law would unite the entire room and, unfortunately, with such great debates. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace. I'm on it. We have two issues of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. First of all, you have considered it on Tuesday: it is proposed to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to operators providing utility services and correcting prices/tariffs for utilities (9406 and 9406-1). This proposal was made by Andreyevsky on the Conciliation Council, and the government is addressing it. Who's in charge of putting these bills into the agenda of the day's session for decision-making, please vote. Voting, voting. [[10:50:00]] For 215 I'll do it again. So once again, I'm putting a motion to put the agenda into order for the decision of the draft Laws 9406 and 9406-1. Please vote, please support, vote, support. [[10:50:34]] For 218. Colleagues, next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Transplantation (9461 and 9461-1). Entry into the agenda of the day session, only inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[10:51:08]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Now, colleagues, attention, attention! We have the following: a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services for import. An extremely important law. And, colleagues, I was approached by the head of the committee, Sergey Pashinsky, to ask that, if there is no support, the committee would ask him to move it. But this is the law that will provide Ukrainian troops with military and technical assistance from the leading countries of the world, a colleague. It has very little right, but we can't put it at risk. That's why I'm asking everyone to focus right now. I'll put it to a rating vote. There is much to talk about on the air about the support of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and this law provides immediate support from our key partners to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'll put up a rating vote first. I'd like everyone to vote. Colleagues, everybody in place, right? I conduct a rating vote under the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the procurement of goods, jobs and defence services by import (No. 9122). Please vote and please support. Fellow Patriots, we support the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please vote, please support. The rating vote. Vote. [[10:53:14]] For 219 We can go in, colleagues. So we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda – the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the purchase of goods, jobs and defence services for import (9122). This is the second reading. It doesn't need a special procedure, and we're moving on to right now. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like literally two minutes of attention. It's actually a very simple law. According to current legislation, we have internal contracts with WHO entities, and externally, we still have what has been known as the specialized agency. What is it? For example, neither the Ministry of Defense nor its child structure can directly acquire weapons, military equipment, and special equipment abroad. To that end, we have Soviet avatarism as a special transporter. Our foreign partners don't understand this institution of legitimate intermediaries, and that's why one of the conditions of getting military assistance from the United States, for example, and I'm stressing, is 250 million dollars already allocated in the US budget, military and technical assistance. We are told of this inadequacy and are asked to bring our legislation into the clear parameters of international legislation. It is a very simple bill that gives subjects of a state defence order, namely, the Ministry of Defence, a subject through their authorized persons or directly, to be subject to international contracts. We accepted it, I thank the Supreme Council for its support, on the first reading. This law is in agreement with our foreign partners, who are going to help us. There have been 23 amendments to the law, and I thank the National Deputies of Vinnic, Dove, Levus, Shepherd, Richchuck, Levichenko. The result of the 19 rights review is that only 4 revisions are technical corrections -- they're rejected. And yesterday the committee unanimously recommended the adoption of this bill as a whole as a committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to emphasize, the right is not much. We're moving on to the right-hand side, but it looks like we're going to get through it in five or seven minutes. I ask you to read the rights of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u38	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we are moving on to consideration of amendments that have been rejected. Amendment number 4. The shepherd’s national deputy does not insist. Amendment 14. Don't insist. Amendment 17. Don't insist. Amendment number 18. Don't insist. The rest of the amendments to the law were taken into account. I then invite the chairman of the committee to the floor. Please, two minutes. And, dear fellows, please return to the Plenary Hall in a few minutes to the vote for this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. I'm talking to all the deputies, we have some political preferences, we have some political differences, sympathy and antipathies, but I'm convinced that we all understand that in hybrid warfare with Russia, we have the defence, the supply of weapons, the supply of special equipment -- that's not the subject where we should debate, make demarches or other blocking things. I am very much asking all my colleagues to concentrate and support such an important and landmark bill to expand our international cooperation. Thank you. And I hope there's room support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u40	Thank you, sir. Dear colleagues, I ask once again all national deputies to return to the Plenary Hall in order to take part in the vote. Please invite all the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u41	So, colleagues, the discussion is over, let's move on to the decision-making process. It's a fine law, colleagues. A law that enables the state-of-the-art weapons for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And that's why it's supporting the front, supporting our boys and girls on the front line, and it's up to our every vote today, and now it's up to every vote. Not on the air, not on the debate, but here in the hall, making a decision. So, colleagues, please take up jobs so that we do not go back to this law. I'm asking everyone from the government's bed to go back to the hall and take jobs. I ask everyone to take responsibility for the adoption of this law. The law for the front, for the victory. Don't leave. So everybody's in place. Can we move on to making a decision? Auntie, please! Mr. Mikola, we'll be waiting for you. Everybody's in place, right? So, colleagues, we're still waiting, right? So, colleagues, everyone in the hall, yes, everyone in the workplace, everyone in the bed came back. Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. So I'm voting on a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on procurement of products, jobs and defence services for import (No. 9122) with technical and legal rights in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. We'll support the front and the Ukrainian victory. Vote, support, colleagues! Vote! We're backing up! Accordingly, every vote, we vote in favour of our victory. [[11:02:09]] For 236 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. By factions, please, anyone for the victory of Ukraine: "Block of Petra Prashenko" – 91, "National Front" – 66, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 19, "Fatherhood" – 9, "Will of the People" – 7, "Party of Rebirth" – 3. And now, colleagues, we're moving on to the next issue of the agenda. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations (4128 and 4128). I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the reduced procedure. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:03:05]] For-149 So, colleagues, I'm putting a bill to the vote. We've already entered into the law. You insist, all right. Draft Law 4128. My colleagues, you're a little more careful, please. Arthur, a little more careful. I'm making an offer. We've already entered 4128; we've already entered into the discussion. And now we're putting in a simplified procedure. And I beg your pardon, vote. Guys, don't play. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. What are you guys doing? [[11:03:51]] For 168 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Yelen Viktor Evgenovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll announce when I've finished the consideration of the issue. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u43	Wait. Colleagues, don't provoke the conflict again, please! Wait, wait, Mr. Victor. I want to let everyone know that I'm in the middle of something, and then the opposition block representatives come up, demanding a break. I would like to point out that this can take place only after the issue has been resolved. A well - known cause of conflict is to talk about what was said to be a misunderstanding under such important laws. Do not provoke conflict. You won't provoke me, colleagues. You haven't been able to do that before or now. Sit in the workplace. Do not provoke conflict in the hall. Keep calm, democratic procedures. Please report, Mr. Victor Yelensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations provides for the right of every community to be subordinated to any centre, both in Ukraine and beyond, and to freely change its religious subordination. But the way this is to be done, the law does not report. This led to misunderstandings and trials, the most famous of which is the "Sveto-Michajlivska Paraphya v. Ukraine", in which the European Court of Human Rights defended the right of the community to change its religious subordination and pointed out to the Ukrainian legislator that these norms should be more specifically prescribed. The bill that we have proposed proposes that the decision to change religious jurisdiction be adopted in the general congregations of the religious community, I stress, in the general congregations of the religious community, not in the local referendums, as we are credited with from Moscow. The decision is considered to be valid when, according to the statute of the religious community, the congregations themselves are competent, and two thirds voted in favour of a change in religious jurisdiction. At the time, after the religious community has decided to change its jurisdiction, a moratorium is imposed on the possibility of alienating its property until such time as this procedure is legally completed. Changes are also proposed to the registration process and to avoid the so - called double.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u45	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u46	It is also suggested that we avoid double registration, for which religious communities and religious organizations have asked us, namely, to avoid it. I want to emphasize again, this is the law for all religious communities. This law provides that the misunderstandings that arise in changing the religious community of their religious subjects will be largely minimized. It is also the implementation of the 18th article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which gives us the right and defines this right as fundamental to the preservation of religious freedom -- change by a man of religious subordination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, the head of the Mikola Knieżicki Committee. From the rostrum, right? Please. We'll wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the committee has considered this bill for quite some time and has carefully considered it. The purpose of his acceptance of not playing tricks on some religious community, whether we like it or not, is the purpose of the bill. prevent conflicts that want to provoke in Ukraine. Because now, in connection with the activation of religious life, you know, many religious communities want to change their religious affiliation and someone does not want to change it. The law does not effectively regulate this. This leads to the destruction of property in temples, leading to conflicts between communities. The bill is prepared on the basis of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which is consistent with the ministries, is absolutely correct. There's a lot of bad news coming out of the papers with the fairy-tale signatures of various famous people and community representatives criticizing the bill. But the standards quoted in these letters do not correspond to what is written in the bill, or if they do, they misinterpret the bill. This is one letter that is being sent out to tear it apart in order to further provoke conflicts in Ukrainian society. I call upon all of you, on behalf of the People's Front faction, to vote for this bill, to support it on a basis and in general, as recommended by the committee, and to put a dot, and not to allow any conflict in the West, nor in the East of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u49	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction by Irina Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, now is the best time for us to close our gestalt between Parliament and the Ukrainian citizens on matters related to the church. And we have this opportunity today. We have the opportunity for the State and the Ukrainian Parliament to do something worthwhile: give people, our fellow citizens, a reliable, simple and understandable tool for the realization of their religious rights. And that's why the Self-Help faction, of course, will support Bill 3128, which we worked on yesterday in the committee, in fact, in order to preserve peace in Ukraine, civilised ways of transition and changing religious subjection by religious organizations. So please, please, all mobilize and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u51	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Novinsky Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill of Viktor Yelensky be approved on the basis as a whole. We believe that there were no legal grounds and conclusions of the scientific and expert administration for passing the bill to the session hall, and that the Council of Churches of Ukraine had not gathered from this issue. In the meantime, the proposed changes create a contradiction with the existing statutes of religious communities, some of the provisions of the bill simply cannot be implemented, and others directly create obstacles to religious activity and may also be grounds for corruption. However, it seems that it was necessary to help President Dusty with his tomoos tour. Sadly, political relevance once again triumphed over the rule of law. The purpose of the bill is to legitimize the raiding of temples and the property of the canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church and under the pressure of law enforcement officials and local authorities to ensure the mass transition of parishes to the newly created Orthodox Church of Ukraine. We call upon law enforcement agencies, local authorities, not to carry out criminal orders, not to interfere with the activities of religious organizations, or to keep an eye on the violation of the law. The evidence that the bill is part of Peter Prashenko's election campaign is that three years after his registration he hasn't been examined and only now, during the Tomos tour of Peter Prashenko, he's going into the hall without proper consideration and in violation of legislative procedures. The Opposition Block insists on upholding the bill and including the right of our team. Under the Rules, if the MP claims that there are laws and observations before the bill, the Head shall not have the right to submit a bill to the general vote. We have these adjustments. We call upon all the national MPs who do not want to help Peter Prashenko in his election campaign, who understands that this bill, if voted on, will lead to increased tensions in society, do not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u53	From "Peter Dust Block" Sporish. Please, Mr. Ivan. And, colleagues, please come into the hall, this is a closing statement, then there'll be one more, yes, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u54	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Viennese, 15th District. Of course, whoever's talking, and once we heard the speeches, it's not like that at all. This law must be upheld by all of us. This law contributes to the religious life of each community. I'll tell you, by New Year's Eve in the village where I live, we had a meeting, almost the whole village came. There was no voice, they were all in favour of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, all without exception. And I think today this law will simplify everything, simplify it so that there can be a really free transition, without political interference, so that we can all go through it peacefully, without any. It's easier. And all religious communities will realize that today they must pray for the Ukrainian people and be in the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. So I ask everyone to support this bill. I think that Peter Prashenko's Block, and not just Peter Prashenko's Block, but all the factions support it, because it's a pretty important law today for all of our religious communities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u55	Colleagues, in three minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I call upon all the heads of factions to mobilize as many deputies as possible in the hall. Please inform the Supreme Council Secretariat that in three minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. It's from the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u56	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team has consistently supported all decisions that will allow Ukraine to gain an independent local church. Because the Ukrainian Church, the Ukrainian language, the Ukrainian Army are the foundation of an independent state. But we strongly deny that today's authorities, President Poroshenko, have turned the question of the Church, the question of Tomos into a demeaning, cynical polytechnology in order to keep Dusty in the President's chair. When the whole country sees these beams of dust with Tomos, when President Poshenko travels all over the country, the sermons in the temples read, I want to remind Dustenka that Christ expelled the merchants from the temples. It is a pity that there are no people today who would drive Dusty out of the temple when he leads a political campaign there. The historical issue is the acquisition of independence by the Ukrainian Church, the acquisition of Tomos, Peter Poroshenko cynically exploits and uses as a decoration for his election campaign. I would like to remind all the priests, including the ruler of Epifania, whom we respect to be visited not only by the Voters of Dustenka, but by the Ukrainians, regardless of who they vote for. And so doing politics on historical issues, on the church, on Tomos -- it demeans the church and complicates the process of rebuilding and establishing the Ukrainian Church. I would advise President Poshenko, instead of traveling with Tomos, to translate into Ukrainian a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, and to travel with him to Ukraine, and to show the Ukrainians what yoke you have put on the neck of each person: tariffs, demeaning prices, demeaning wages and pensions. The country needs economic recovery, the country needs jobs, the country needs jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u57	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u58	The country needs wages and pensions, the country needs an independent Ukrainian church and Ukraine needs an honest authority that will not parasite on church issues, on Tomos' issues when there is nothing else to say. I'm talking to Peter Dusty: Stop using these church questions in a pathetic, cynical way!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u59	I'm asking all my colleagues to come into the hall. And, colleagues, I want to remind you that the issue of giving Tomos was initiated here in this room. We all started here together, in this room. I, my colleagues, would like to remind you that the will of the Ukrainian Parliament has initiated the issue. But we should also remember that President Prašenko has done his best to make this historic decision. I want to remind everyone, colleagues: elections come and go, not to remember the names of many politicians who are in the hall, but the Church, which has been waiting for 300 years, will remain one of the foundations of the Ukrainian state, and today we are involved in this historic decision. Let's put down the political debate, let's put down any political debate. Today's historic task is to complete the path we started in June 16th. And that's why everyone's responsibility is to be in the hall, to vote to allow Ukrainian communities to join and fulfill their ancient dream, their grandparents' dream, to join the only Ukrainian church. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. One minute, Ivan Krulko. Okay, two minutes, Ivan Krulko. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues and distinguished Ukrainians, for Fatherland, the question of creating a local Orthodox Church was a program question. For all the years, Fatherland has fought consistently to have a local Orthodox church in Ukraine and to have the center of our church not in Moscow, but to have the center of our church in Kiev. That is why we have consistently supported these issues, and today we will support the bill so that religions can move freely, communities into the religion where they feel they are needed. We understand, of course, that there are legal nuances in this bill that need to be clarified in the second reading, we understand, but "Fatherland" will vote in favour of this bill. At the same time, from this high rostrum, Parliament Speaker just mentioned that for 300 years, Ukraine had fought for us to have our Ukrainian local Orthodox Church, 300 years of fighting. Not the month, not the last year, but the election campaign, but 300 years, Ukraine fought for it. Since the beginning of State independence, when some went to a church in Moscow, Patriarch Filaret has consistently fought for this church to become one, and it has become one. So I would like to say on behalf of the "Fatherland" faction: stop using the conjunctural newly created Orthodox Church of Ukraine. This discredits her when the church and the newly elected chairman become a tool in the hands of the election campaign. Within two months the elections will end, the church must remain for a century for Ukraine, and the church must remain forever for the Ukrainian State. Hence, it cannot be discredited for election from the first days of its creation. This has to be stopped. And the Ukrainian Church is going to be. To be our independence, to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u62	be our nationality. And Ukraine certainly does. And that will pass, and these elections will pass, and the Ukrainian Church must be. We therefore vote in favour of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, we vote in favour of free communities to choose religions, and we stop political speculation against the background of religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u63	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to be seated, colleagues. This is the question on which your communities will look at everyone's vote. Please return to the room and be in the workplace during the vote. That's not an intriguing question. Please, everyone, please be in the workplace. We're done here, and we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. And I'm going to put the committee's proposal to the vote first. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations (No. 4128-d) to propose a committee on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote, please support. Vote, Ukrainians. We support the Ukrainian Church, we support the Ukrainians. Vote. We vote yes. Please be supportive. Please vote. Every voice. Please carefully take part in the vote. Vote. [[11:23:44]] For 223 I'll be back. I can see we didn't make it. I'll put the first vote back. I'm asking you the first question: go back to the vote. I ask everyone to take part in the vote. Lvivians, how come you're not in the hall? So the first question is to go back to voting. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Return to the vote. [[11:24:19]] For 224 Guys, we didn't make it. I'll be back in a second. Let's see the factions. Let's see the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 83, People's Front – 65, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 10, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 29. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. [[B in m in s a l in]] It will be everyone's responsibility for this vote before the community. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the vote. Please vote, please support. Please support us until we get back. Please vote, please support. [[B in m in s a l in]] Get away from me, you filthy bastard, get away from me! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote, please support. We're voting for the return. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. Vote. Every voice, every colleague, every voice! Careful, responsible. [[11:25:30.]] For 229 We're back. There's 229 colleagues. I'm putting the 4128-d vote on the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues. A responsible vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Every voice, carefully, responsibly. Voting, supporting. Let's vote, colleagues. We'll support the Ukrainian Church, the Ukrainian tradition. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:26:04]] For 229 Decision taken. Congratulations, friends, with an important historical decision for the Ukrainian Church, for the Ukrainian State, for the Ukrainian identity. This was important, perhaps one of our final decisions in support of the Ukrainian Church. Thank you all, colleagues, all the factions, all the groups that voted. It's out of politics, it's for Ukraine and for Ukraine and the Ukrainian state. Now I'm announcing a break from two factions: the Rebirth Party and the Opposition Block. Who will act, colleagues? Is someone going to perform? Please, I give you my word. A real break is required. Okay, I'm calling a real break, but that puts other laws at risk. Okay. But I have to do this: a real 30-minute break. Then it'll be 12 o'clock, so we'll meet at 12:30 in the hall, colleagues. But we have total concentration. Colleagues, why don't you change your position? We're just going to break up the hall. Let someone do the talking, and that's it from you, colleagues. We now have a question of agrarian politics. Let someone step away from you, make a statement. No, it's a break, isn't it? Okay. Break. And at 12:30, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work. At 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I want to remind you that we now have two very important blocks. The first block is the question of agrarian politics, which, colleagues, we can't get to again. And the next block is information. I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for our work. Let me remind you, I'm going to propose the first law on agrarian policy issues to be put under a reduced procedure. If we go into full procedure, we can't go completely, we can't go through all the questions. So I'm asking everyone to support the abbreviated. Mr. Alexander, let's support agrarian politics, so that we can get to the issue of information, so that we can put the agrarian policy issue short so that we can get to it. Because I hope we can get into your first law by noon. Today the entire room is set to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. The heads of the factions please invite the deputies to the hall. And now I invite you to speak to two factions who have requested a three-minute recess, Dobrenkova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u65	Dear citizens of Ukraine, first of all, I am addressing you because there is no one to address here, and as evidenced by the results of the previous vote, when in fact the coalition, the vote is a coalition, they have shown themselves as they did in the 14th year: they have made a single front, supporting the President's initiatives to help him pianize himself during his pre-election campaign, the so-called tomos tour. I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 35 of the Constitution, the State guarantees, I emphasize again, freedom of religion and freedom of religion. But that was until these unprofessional cynics came to power. Nothing is sacred to them. You see, they can't show anything. This coalition is a non-cooperation whose legal status is quite questionable, and they have not reformed. Pension reforms, medical reforms, social reforms -- they're all over the place. Because they reached one point — the poverty of their Ukrainian people. Instead of what's left? To pray in language, in the army, in faith. This is one of the bills that they've written on -- a bill that deals with faith. What's this bill about? I want to remind you that most voters here didn't even know what I voted for. Since the bill is previous, 4218, he is. 4128, sorry, it contained one page. 4128-d, for which they have now voted in silence by stretching out for violation of the Rules through the profiling committee a draft law, they didn't even know what they were voting for. The point is that the autonomy of the religious community, to determine its belongings, is an internal matter of church, religious communities. Now they are cynically, rudely, unconstitutionally, and with gross violation of the Rules, they are interfering with the issues and they are talking about who and how they will be defined, subjective to religious communities, their belonging to one religion or another. There have been many appeals that this applies to all religions. But we know that this is a deliberate discrediting action against the only canonic church, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. Instead, I would like to say that gross violations of the Rules have been allowed. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was ignored our statement, to which we have the right as a faction, this is the first. Secondly, there was a non-personal vote during the vote. Thirdly, we have made an appropriate decision to cancel the vote. And fourthly, most importantly, you, the chairman, did not have the right to put this bill to a vote in general, when, in particular, in our faction, I personally have many.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u66	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u67	A lot of other factions' deputies have commented on this bill. And once again, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of a revised version of the bill, which appeared only on the web site this morning. And a lot of MPs have asked questions. Because of the gross violation of the Rules, we will appeal to the Constitutional Court to declare this bill unconstitutional. And this bill could set the stage for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u68	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u69	Because this bill can provoke civil conflict, we're leaving this room as a whole because we don't want to be part of this cynicism that is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u70	So, colleagues, I don't want to go into religious debate. But if even by religious canons, there is one canon Orthodox church in Ukraine today -- the Ukrainian Auto-Cefal Church. And when we talk about church canons, we have only one dissecting church, which is located in the canonic territory of the Ukrainian Autocephalian Orthodox Mass Church. And, colleagues, I would like to emphasize that everyone has the right to speak, to express his position. And today we have been doing the duty of the State not to allow conflicts that unfortunately provoke some people who use the church for political reasons to motivate the aggression of the Russian Federation. In order not to allow the conflict to be peaceful, there was harmony in society so that citizens could exercise their right, and this, indeed, historic law was passed. And once again I welcome the entire hall with the adoption of this law. And please, colleagues, all come into the hall. I think we can work with the Ukrainian factions in Parliament. And, colleagues, I'll remind you, in order for us to be able to effectively go through the agenda, we need agrarian policy issues under reduced procedures. I'm going to all factions now: do you support this position to cancel out? "Paternity," do you support it to be shortened? To short-circuit the procedure? You'll support it. Radical Party, do you support the shortcut? Mr. Galasjuk, we spoke to you yesterday. Do you support the shortcut? "The will of the people," do you support the abbreviated? Short-term procedure? Okay. Please support the simplified procedure. And, People's Front, stand by, colleagues. Let's take up jobs, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, colleagues. Please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day -- this is the draft of the Act on Requirements for Items and Materials that Contact Food. This bill is included in the list of laws implementing Ukraine's Euro-Integration Agreement. It is also proposed by the Agrarian Policy Committee, and at the same time it is Euro-integration, colleagues. So I ask that we all be united. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone. And I'm voting on the proposal for this bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. And please, colleagues, support everyone, everyone who's in the room, I see, members of the Committee on European Integration. Please vote and please support. We vote, colleagues, we support a reduced procedure, we support it. [[12:42:10]] For 132 We didn't make it, colleagues. I'm on the Conciliation Council every time. The committee heads report that they are unable to review their drafts. It is not vast; it is not a complicated bill. And we took too long a time because two factions took a break, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. Let's see the factions. "Block of Petra Dustenka" - 55. Mr. Bakumenko, work with the faction. People's Front - 49, Opposition - 0, Self-help - 9, Radical Party - 2. Colleagues, stand by, please. We talked to you about this yesterday. "Paternity" is 7, "Will of the People" is 2, "The Rebirth Party" is 2. Colleagues, when your laws are passed, I stand up for all laws equally. I ask you now to support the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Committee on European Integration. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Prepare to vote. And I'm voting on the proposal to consider draft Law 4611 as a reduced procedure. And please support everyone, colleagues. Please vote everyone. We support, we vote short. I'd like your support, colleagues. We all vote carefully. Every voice matters. Vote. [[12:43:48]] For 148 I'll do it again, colleagues. Well, some people are just playing, I can see that the votes are taken out. Colleagues, I can see they're coming into the hall. Get ready. We have a high level of concentration in the room. We have a chance to quickly pass Euro-integration laws. Colleagues, members of the committee, do the advocacy work. Members of the agrarian committee, members of the Euro Integration Committee, ask the deputies to participate in the vote. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to draft Law 4611, the Euro-Integration Law, so that we can look at the simplified procedure. I'd like everyone to vote. Every voice, you've seen, has weight. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote, colleagues, support. Please vote. Vote. Support me, Radical Party, support me, colleagues. [[12:45:02]] For-160. Decision taken. And we're going to look at it. And I invite you to report to the deputy minister of agrarian politics and food, Mr. Kovalova Olen Victorovna. Mrs. Olena, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u71	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! Today we ask you to support a bill that is the brick of a single system of food security and quality: from food to food. The Act on requirements for food materials and materials is designed according to the DCFTA, and it takes into account several directives that are binding on Ukraine’s implementation. These are directives 1935 and 450. What exactly is determined by this bill? It sets out: First. Category of items and materials that may be in contact with food. The other one. The powers of the executive authorities to introduce the requirements of these objects are established, namely the ILO. Powers are being established for the State Food Service to monitor compliance with legislation. Appropriately, the requirements for maintaining a register of substances that can be used in contact with food materials are formed. This draft act, supported by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, is supported by the Committee on European Integration, and given that it has had a long-term discussion with business, we would ask you to support it, support it on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u72	Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations, Mr. Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u73	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on September 6th, discussed the draft Law on Requirements for Food Products and Materials (Registration No. 4611), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. First of all, I would like to stress that this is an extremely important Euro-Integration Bill, which is included in the road map of Euro-Integration Projects and is called upon to harmonise Ukrainian legislation and European Union legislation on food safety. The purpose of this bill is to establish legal and organizational principles for the circulation of items and materials intended for direct or indirect contact with food. The main provisions of the bill propose the establishment of general and specific requirements for the circulation of food products and materials, including active and intellectual objects and materials. Establish a national register of substances that are allowed to be used in the manufacture of objects and materials, a state register of substances that may be part of active items and materials, and determine the procedure for inclusion and exclusion of substances from such a list. Set requirements for the labelling of items and materials that are in contact with food. The implementation of the bill will increase the level of health protection and consumer interests, their information on impact and the quality of materials. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's decision to adopt Bill No. 4611 as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u74	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Imprehenko Alexei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u75	Please pass the word to Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexi Petrovich, for your word. Thank you for the opportunity to make a statement under the bill that we are about to consider. Dear colleagues, we have reviewed the bill on the committee on several occasions and have concluded that it needs to be brought to the session hall as a matter of urgency in order to gather these 226 votes and to confirm that Ukraine is not only saying in words today that it is ready to export a large number of agricultural products to European and world markets, but, as we know, so far, we have exported the main raw material. And in order to export finished products, to semi-manufactured, we need this law as air. We need to convince European countries that we are a civilized, highly organized, high-tech country, and that products are exported of high quality, with human rights guaranteed that they are passed on, sold, transported in safe packaging materials. So this is a very important but very simple bill at the same time, and we ask you, as deputy head of the Agrarian Affairs and Land Relations Committee, to support this bill and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u77	Thank you, colleagues. I'm talking to everyone again, it's a Euro-Integration project. All the factions that are in the room in all their programming statements support Euro-integration. Now we're going to have one or two more signatures. I'm asking everyone to invite the deputies to the hall in a few minutes' time. I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, colleagues. Look who's gone, and invite the deputies into the hall. Now, from the Fatherland faction, I invite you to Vadim Ivchenko's performance, two minutes. And please invite everyone to the hall. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u78	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Andriy Volodymyrovich, I would think it would be faithful and appropriate to start an agrarian day or review of agrarian laws, from that decree that today's blocked signature of the Law on Moratorium, the extension of the moratorium for one year. You've given orders, and today you have the right to ask today's regulatory committee whether they held meetings yesterday, and to set up this order today, now, in order to give a signal eventually to Parliament. Because we've got a lot of things coming out that we'd like to vote, the law's not signed, and people are using, some of our colleagues are using this situation, they're running on the Internet, they're running false information on Facebook, including statements by MPs, faction leaders. The other one. This law today does not address the issue of packaging, this law today deals with the issue of the very contact of food products with objects that are actually materials that actually are, well, can affect quality and safety. But what I'm going to tell you is that the things that are coming into circulation for the first time today are going to be during the registration. In fact, there is no way today to check whether there will be a roadblock to this context, whether they will directly make food available under the new consumer law. So the "Fatherland" faction will abstain from this bill. We do not see today the financial justification for what is laid down in this bill. This is where they enter. Here are the terms, their definitions, the obligation to register auxiliary materials, and here are the actual responsibilities, the grounds for the state registration and the responsibility - everything, four pages. There is no issue of packaging, of environmentality, and of the impact on quality and safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u79	Thank you. Vadim, you're a member of the committee, and you've obviously been involved in the preparations. I was hoping that the committee would share a common position. With regard to the rulings, I would like to inform you that, according to my commission, the committee has considered and both are here. You know, according to the Rules, I can put them to a vote at any time. I promise you, I promise you, we'll look at them, most likely even today or tomorrow. We will definitely consider them. The only question is that I'm waiting for the right moment, if you understand me correctly, when I see that there was mobilization in the room. They're both there as soon as there's a moment, I'll definitely put them in, there's no intrigue here. None of them are intrigued, they will be considered, the law will be signed by me and sent to the President. And this law, Euro-Integration, let's support at least because it's necessary for Euro-Integration, which for us will be another signal and a step that the Ukrainian Parliament is going that way. You say he's imperfect. Perhaps imperfect, but it will be a sign that will be important to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u80	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u81	Colleagues, and that's just on the ground, we can work on it, we can make it. I call on everyone, colleagues, I don't want to, I'm saying this right now to Fatherland, and to the Radical Party, I don't want it to look like Parliament's work is blocked because one faction left the hall. That would be wrong, too. That's why I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to come into the hall now. Are they still willing to act under this law? None. Then I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm asking the factions to invite deputies into the hall. Colleagues, look who's gone, and be in the workplace. I'm addressing the national MPs who are in bed, colleagues, so that I don't call them names, Mrs. Irina, Mrs. Olga, let's do it. There are no options, we've entered into the discussion, we have to finish the discussion. There are no other options. Mrs. Olga, do you support this law or not? No, right? So, colleagues, that's just the basis. We'll be able to work on it. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Requirements for Items and Materials that Contact Food (No. 4611) on the basis of the Committee's proposal. It's a Euro-Integration Law, colleagues. European integration is not a TV show, it's a job in the hall. And now I ask everyone to be in the hall and vote. Everyone, please take your seats and vote, support. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. On the ground, just on the ground. Please be supportive. [[12:57:48]] For 165 Two factions don't vote. Colleagues. Head of the committee, two factions don't vote. I'll put it on return, but two factions minus. Or would you like to support the committee for further work? To the committee for further work, will you? Let me put it, colleagues, once we get back to voting on the basis, if we don't, then I'll put it on the committee for work. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. First. Who supports the proposal to return to the vote on the basis of draft Law 4611. Please vote and please support. On the basis of that, return. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:59:04]] For-174 The next suggestion, colleagues, is to return to the committee for further work. Let's focus around it so that we don't collapse the Euro-Integration Law. Please come into the hall. I'm asking you to support everyone. Colleagues, the proposal is for a committee to work on. Perhaps it will be unifying. The very fact that we can break the law of Euro-integration will be a bad signal and a bad sign. This is a united proposal, I ask, colleagues, all around it to unite. Take your jobs, come into the hall. I am voting on the proposal that we have returned to the Committee for further work on the draft Law on Requirements for Items and Materials that Contact Food (4611). I'm asking you to vote, and I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Every voice. Voting, supporting. It's a compromise position. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. We vote, we support, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:00:35]] For 181 Colleagues, let's do this: I'm going to get the subject back on the legislative initiative. Colleagues, the next final proposal for us to draft Law 4611 is to direct the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. I ask you to vote and ask for my support: 4611 subjects of the legislative initiative for further development. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. [[13:01:18]] For 178. Insufficient number of votes. Unfortunately, draft Law 4611 I declare rejected. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be in the hall right now, and I'm going to run on the next two questions of the agrarian block of the rating vote, so we don't put them at risk. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. The next draft of the law, too, is a Euro-Integration, perhaps bringing the hall together. Colleagues, the next draft law that I'm going to put on the rating vote alone, we're not going to go into it, it's a project to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the identification and registration of animals (No. 9022). And I, my colleagues, will now place a rating vote. The bill is also a bill that is recommended as the primary agrarian committee and the Committee on European Integration. So I'm conducting a rating vote on the draft Law 9022. Please vote and please support, colleagues. The rating vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[13:02:42]] For 172 Next, colleagues, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law. Let's look at the factions first. Show me the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 69, People's Front – 55, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 1, Father's Party – 6, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 18. And the next draft of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Characteristics of Agricultural Insurance with State Support. It's just a rating vote. The committee shall, if there are no votes, move. 6355 and 6355-1. Colleagues, please vote. Please support, this is a rating vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[13:03:50]] For-164 The chairman of the committee asks that the consideration of agrarian politics be postponed to the next plenary week, which is a shame. We've done this twice or three times. Colleagues, pay attention! And I'm going to run another rating vote just to study the situation, just to study the situation. We've got the next one. Colleagues, pay attention! The next is a draft law, a draft law on the information block. This is the draft Law on Electronic Communications (3549-1, 3549-3 and 3549-4). I'm just going to run a rating vote so we can see how ready it is to go through it. And, colleagues, I'm asking you all to support me. Once again, this is one of the key issues not only for IT development, but for development and for the Ukrainian economy. And I ask you all to be concerned about this vote. I ask you to support us to see what the situation is. Colleagues, please unite all the factions in the hall. It's just a rating vote on the draft Electronic Communications Act. And yesterday, colleagues, they promised to support all the factions. So 3549-1, -3 and -4. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. [[13:05:32]] For-170. The situation in the hall is unstable, respectable colleagues. No, it's not. Colleagues, pay attention! Under the Rules, I have the right to make draft decisions at any stage. And since there was a requirement for national deputy Vadim Yvchenk to review without delay the decisions of the Supreme Council on the moratorium on land, and to meet the demands of the National Deputies to unlock the Council's work, I will proceed to the consideration of those rulings. And I hope that as soon as we look at them, the room will work effectively, effectively and we will be able to make a positive decision after lunch. And, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you'll be able to monitor the situation and see if we have a chance after lunch. So now I'm announcing the transition to consideration of two draft regulations. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 20 December 2018 on the adoption of the first reading on the basis and the whole of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of Chapter X of the Transitional Positions of the Ukrainian Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land 9355-P. And then we go to P1. And now I remind you that these projects are being considered by a reduced procedure without a separate vote. And now I invite the ideologist to cancel the moratorium and the great ideologist to be the market for the land in which I support him, the national deputy of Ukraine Musak Alexi Petrovich. Mr. Alexi, please welcome Mr. Alexi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u83	Thank you, thank you. That's enough, that's enough. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to welcome you all. And today we will consider the next question. It took 17 days, and the moratorium was not extended because he and his colleague Pinzenic had been blocked. And you know what. We can start talking about the Earth market now, but I'll start with another. In Ukraine, a large number of airports are built: Poltava, Mikolayev, Lviv, Herson, Vinitza, even, Uman, Chernivci. And I have a question: where are all these Arabs, the Chinese, well, Jews and other people who were supposed to buy our land? Why aren't they there? I have a question for Oleg Valeriovich. By the way, where is he? Why did they not come to Ukraine and buy our last treasure? Questions to Julia Volodymyrna. Where is she, too? Why, then, did the oligarchs not buy within the 17 - day period a single hectare of Ukrainian land? Well, how did that happen? And the answer is simple: because in fact, for the last 10 years, there was no need to continue the moratorium. All the voting, all the voting on the extension of the moratorium, it was only one thing to ban the Ukrainian from even thinking about what he was entitled to. For one simple reason. Because if a Ukrainian has a right, an economic right, he becomes rich. If he becomes rich and rightful, he does not need politicians who only trade social taxes and talk about the fact that when they come to power something changes for the better. Because if the Ukrainian is rich and entitled, he does not need you, the politicians of yesterday. Therefore, fellow believers, the death of a moratorium! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u85	Thank you. To the report. Your ruling is as follows. We're looking at them separately, Mr. Victor. Please read the Rules. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please, Mr. Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, my report refers to two draft decrees: both by the authority of the National MP Musak and by the authorship of the National Deputy Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. The Committee at its meeting on 16 January reviewed the draft decrees of the Supreme Council on the lifting of Parliament's decision of 20 December on the adoption of the first reading on the basis and the draft Act amending Chapter X of the Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land (registration No. 9355-5 of 04.12.2018) which were submitted by the National Deputies Musak Alexiy (registration 9355-P) and Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik (9355-P1) respectively. At the meeting of the committee, the author of the draft Decree for Registration 9355-P, National MP Alexius Musak drew attention to the facts of the non-personal vote of the National Deputies for the adoption of the draft law as a whole, as reflected in the video he proposed to the committee during the consideration of the matter. National MP Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, in an explanatory note to the draft decree, also explained the need to abolish the relevant decision of the Supreme Council by inpersonal voting of national deputies with reference to article 47 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. National committee members noted the Committee's earlier legal position regarding the impersonal voting of Ukrainian national deputies at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. This is regulated by the provisions of article 47 of the Rules. In the conclusions of his committee on draft decisions to repeal the decisions of the Supreme Council, he has repeatedly stated that the establishment of a non-personal vote by a national deputy is not considered by the committee, must be violated and exhausted directly during the consideration of drafts. In accordance with part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the Committee adopted a conclusion on the two draft regulations mentioned above and invites the Supreme Council to determine whether they should be adopted or rejected by a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u87	Please record statements from factions. Please, factions, please register actively. From the Self-Help faction. From the Self-Help faction? Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, I must continue what Alexi has just said. Besides the fact that there's really been no collapse, we still know very well that this whole moratorium is actually a big campaign. Because it is clearly recorded today in the earthly code that the earth’s market will be when a special law appears. And of course, everyone is saying that the earth market is ever needed, but somehow no government, no political power today, has become a flagman and has not proposed, but how it should be done. Why? But for one simple reason: If we open up the land market for the next 8 years, Ukraine will get and Ukraine will get $50 billion. And that means that the Ukrainian will actually become richer. Ukrainians, not oligarchs, not those holding agroholdings. We had a second question: Foreigners will come and buy up the land. And do you know that many agrohholdings are actually behind foreign companies? And nobody cares. Question three. What agroholdings do today is they rent this land for human money. This means that the ordinary Ukrainian is poorer and the agrohöldings are less expensive. Of course, they are not comfortable with the earth’s market, for once the earth’s market is established, they will have to pay a real price for the land. Therefore, in any case, who does not support the civilized introduction of the land market in Ukraine, he does not support the right of ownership of every Ukrainian, the freedom of every Ukrainian. Since the earth is our inalienable right, it is our freedom. And it does not support the wealth of every ordinary Ukrainian, but it supports the oligarchs and supports the agroholdings that destroy this land. They don't take care of her because it's not their land, they earned it today, they're gone tomorrow. And the Ukrainians need their land, their fair price, and their land market.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u89	Thank you. From the Barna Oleg Stepanovich faction of Peter Prashenko. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u90	Praise Jesus Christ! Now, I'm going to act out of faction, but from myself, everyone really thinks. But I want to talk to everyone. Before taking the moratorium on the earth, we must all at least agree and adopt the Law on the Expansion of the Earth. Why is the Law on the Expansion of the Earth not yet available, and we are already talking about the sale of the earth? And obviously it should be noted that the wealth of Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian villages should start not from selling land, but from developing small farms, middle agriculture, creating jobs. Yesterday was an interesting meeting with representatives of the World Bank. And their position on lending -- only in terms of land market, and large areas -- leads me to one thought, the idea that these world financial clans are not helping to carry out their economic functions, at least by helping Ukraine, and their goal is an exclusive set of land. And someone who starts to talk about that the land market will raise the value of the land, respectable, teach the economy, because you've been playing with the sales of agents of external influence, you're not working on Ukrainians. Because the cost of the land depends not on the market, but on the welfare of the population, how rich the population is in general. So obviously I want to say the following. Now we have to go to the idea that the land for Ukrainians is much more than the goods, much more. And if you compare it by buying cars, apartments, I'm not surprised that your moral values can go down to selling wives, children and LGBT and so on, which is what you're leading you to. So my position is just that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u91	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u92	That the land in Ukraine should serve for the well-being of ordinary, private Ukrainians, to whom it should give work and accordingly enrich the communities. The earth is a cradle of Ukraine, and the Ukrainian village must exist. As long as civilized ways of marketing the earth are not formed, there can be no question of selling. To Ukrainian land, to Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u93	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kirilenko of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, dear friends! The first words I'm going to say are the market of the earth. Absolutely. Sooner or later. The only condition, the only problem in the country today, is trust. In 25 years of reform, when we started it, we were in the 20th most developed countries in the world. Look at the statistics. We're now in our twenties, just in the second hundredth. What reform did we do to benefit people? We're on the market rails right now in our first years of independence and we've announced that we're breaking up with a command-administrative past, we're going to market routes. And the first thing to do is to privatize. Fathers. The parents of this reform, did they think it would turn out? With good intentions. continue to follow the text. Five sixths of national wealth were privatized, and 11 billion dollars were recovered. Is that a lot or a little bit? Creebrisstal showed the scale of the country's robbery. When it was essentially donated, and then Julia Timoshenko was reprivatized, the people looked at the scope of the reform. So multiply this number: in the economic potential of the Crimson Coastal, 0.7 percent, the raw material enterprise. Take, for the third class, the x problem. If we privatized like Creebrisstal, the country would get $500 billion, not 11. Does the people know that? He knows. More banks. They've reformed the banking system, over 200 banks have been created. Friends, in 15 years the bracelet fell 15 times. In Zimbabwe and Venezuela alone, the national currency collapsed. Because the Germans came and said, "Friends, you have a lot of banks, but you're not a banking country, because there's no bank money, there's no population money, and that's very risky." That's right. In 15 years, people lost 4 trillion dollars in purchasing power. People are good.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u95	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u96	There is yet another major reform to be completed. Friends, if it doesn't work out, let's ask the people, "National wealth," and what the people will say about it. And then we're going to do this reform. Let's have a referendum. My friends, and not with our happiness at all, because trust in us is very, very low, people very, very doubt that this is going to be fair. Let's build trust, we'll really adopt all the laws that unlock the market, and then we'll go to people with honesty. An honest position. The average price of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u97	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u98	The average price of land in Europe is how much? 7,000 euros. Let's set an indicative price of 7,000 euros. Please, and we'll start with that. And then it'll be honest and transparent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u99	Thank you. And I invite you to speak from the People's Front faction. Please, from the People's Front. Maxim Burbak. Who's it gonna be? Andrew Ivanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u100	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The People's Front faction won't support it when, on a serious issue like Ukrainian soil, it turns everything into something like this, you know, a funny story. You don't have to laugh! There must be a bill in the Ukrainian Parliament that will answer the country's market needs. And then there'll be a professional discussion in this room. This must be done either by the government of Ukraine, or I am addressing Mr. Alexi Musak and all the honourable members of the Committee of Agricultural Policy. Dear friends, it is your duty as experts in this matter: to learn international experience and adopt, to propose a joint committee bill, if the government fails, to us so that we can talk in the Ukrainian Parliament. The owner of the land, who could be Ukrainians or foreigners; the funds they took should prove the source or should not prove; which maximum bank of land should be concentrated in one hand and so on and so forth. But when we talk about the moratorium, we, whether we are against it, we are deceiving not only the Ukrainian society, but even each other, because we have nothing to say about what we are and what we are and what we are sharing, we are fighting. Let us, dear friends, introduce a law that will answer all these questions in a civilized way. The Polish model, German, doesn't matter to me, but in this room we're going to find most of it under one norm, and Ukrainians will be free to manage their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u101	Thank you. From the opposition block faction, please, National MP Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I am addressing the presiding officer, above all, with the suggestion that we return to the subject. This is not about the substance of the bill, my fellow Members, but about the fact that the bill now being put into motion, the decision to annul the rule of law in the adoption of the law is not about the provisions of the law, about its articles, about its contents. And today, it must be said that today, when the law was passed, once again, the Head of the Supreme Council violated the Supreme Council of Ukraine's regulations, as well as the adoption of such important laws as we are now considering. Because the law cannot be put to the vote on the basis and generally, when there are proposals by the Ukrainian national deputies, when there is a remark by the Ukrainian national deputies. - It's a direct rule of the rules. On the subject of substance, I would like to ask the Ukrainian national deputies to read the text of the bill too before speaking. The point is, both the right and the right and the right. And if you want to solve this question and you want the Latifundists to raise their hands too, let's adopt a law that will abolish all the rights that have been concluded before and start with a clean letter, and return to the original landowners their ownership rights and then you will see that it will be legal and understandable. Yesterday, when we had a committee meeting, I applied to the author of the legislative initiative. If this question is so important to him, if the coalition does not support it, it was perfectly logical for us to make a declaration of withdrawal from the coalition today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u103	Thank you. Two more performances, please, from the non-fractional. Please, National Deputy Kishkar. Out of place, please turn on the microphone. People's MP Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, the big discussion, and what Mr Papiev points out is that this is really a procedural issue, I think the ideology of not having a moratorium itself is not a formal side of the matter. Over a million people who own pies have already died without being able to use their right to sell or buy pie. I also pointed out on the committee that there are fields in Ukraine that are actually divided into two parts: one part is an oceanic land of 2 hectares is distributed and can be freely bought and sold; the other side of the field of the same is infused with people and cannot be the subject of a sales contract. Most importantly, the most cynical thing is that the earth market actually exists. Period. It's just that this price isn't a bit marketed and people are actually forced to go into a situation that's uncomfortable, for example, when people are sick, they have to sell pie that's 5.6 hectares, 7, 500-600 dollars. That's the truth of life. And it's been going on for more than a year. So let's, guys, take this issue in a complex way, consider a comprehensive bill that really needs to be worked out by a profile committee and put it in the hall. And there's a market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u105	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Levchenk. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u106	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Once again, we are discussing a very important issue for the country in absurd terms. It is not possible to consider this question for a few minutes. Now, when we voted in favour of the respective moratorium bills, this was going to be a full discussion, the Supreme Council was going to be doing it all day long, and preferably, for example, the British Parliament, which is considering a bill all week long. Because it's fundamental, one of the most important problems for the country. How can you play volleyball for a few minutes, someone saying one nonsense, and then this nonsense can't be corrected? Yeah? So I'm going to try the basics again. Indeed, even without a moratorium, the market for agricultural land would not have appeared in itself if there were no law. But why, personally, as a national MP, do I feel that a moratorium is still necessary in order for there to be no collegiates in legislation, because there is a certain conflict here, that, on the one hand, there is no prohibition, but, on the other hand, there is no mechanism to do so. And in principle, this allows especially our most humane, fairest courts in the world to do even more of the chastity they do. Thus, there is also a need for moratoriums from a legal point of view. But when we talk about the essence of the problem, the question here is divided: someone is saying that the market should be later, someone is saying that it should be now. I'm personally and "Freedom" we're talking about that the agricultural land market, the sale-purchase market, yes, it shouldn't be at all. There must be a market for land rentals for agricultural purposes. Renty! The land of agriculture is a strategic state resource that must be controlled by the entire nation. Someone's yelling from the hall that there's already a market. No, he's not here. There's an illegal quasi-martial, illegal quasi-rent, and any decisions in this illegal market can be overturned by normal power and normal femida, if we ever have one, I'm sure it will. So you can't say that. Please add, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u107	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u108	Therefore, by referring to the existence of this illegal market, we should not say that this is the case, so let’s keep it that way. The current situation is unacceptable, of course. It is unacceptable that a person cannot sell his pie to a state. We demand that a man be able to sell his pie to the state. It is unacceptable that there is no normal civilized lease market, a lease on agricultural land, when it is really possible to dispose of rent rights in unscrupulous renters when a state can control it when it is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u109	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u110	The owners had the opportunity, in fact, to get rid of the unscrupulous tenant. It's all unacceptable. But your proposals about the wild market for strategic state resources are also absolutely true.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u111	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Halasyuk, please, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u112	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. The Ukrainians, do they really believe that this will allow Ukrainians to realize their constitutional rights, to defend their national interests when there is military aggression against Ukraine, when 2 million temporarily displaced persons, displaced persons who do not have the necessary money, when more than 2 million Ukrainians have left the country in the past few years to earn money to feed their families, not to buy land? Well, look at it from an economic point of view. In the past seven years, grain exports have tripled in Ukraine. Three times! All world records are being broken. We're told you're going to feed the whole world. Would it be better for you to live in a village during this time, or would it be better to live with the common people? It was better to live with those who today concentrated huge banks of land resources and cultivated technical crops and turned Ukraine into a raw colony. And now because of the withdrawal of the moratorium, the so-called free market, they just want to buy this land in order to permanently record their property and property. The world’s leading economists say to Ukraine, they warn: You sell the land once, then you can’t buy the goods that are produced on this earth. Therefore, the Radical Party team advocates the development of agriculture, the protection of Ukrainian land rights through a fixation in the Constitution that the priority is agriculture, the one who lives and processes this land, ownership of the land. So it is in the Constitution of Poland. We're basically in favour of animal development and subsidies for each cow for at least 5,000 dollars for raw export taxes. An agrarian-cheese congregation that we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u113	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u114	An agrarian assembly, a bill that Oleg Lashk and I and our team introduced to Parliament. Tax takers from raw exporters, direct these funds to support farmers holding cows. In addition, more agro-processing in the countryside, adopt laws that will allow Ukraine not to be an agricultural exporter, but an exporter of food. This is a complex approach that will increase the welfare of the village, develop the Ukrainian agrosector. That's why it's not about the market today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u116	And, colleagues, now it's closed from the committee first, then it's a lineup. Please, from the committee, allow me to make a statement to the head of the Bakumenka Committee. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u117	I'm a few. I want to answer Andrew, my friend, yes, what he said about the committee, the market or the moratorium. The question is superserious, and I started it from the fact that we were three years old when the moratorium was renewed, over the past three years, we wrote: in the first half of the government of Ukraine to develop and submit to Parliament a draft Law on the Circumstances of Agricultural Assignments. Last year, on the basis of an agrarian committee, we created a powerful working group. This powerful working group included all associations representing from a small farmer to a large producer, all professionals in the market, 20 national deputies, members of the agrarian committee, scientists, representatives of the World Bank and all financial institutions. And on the basis of the committee, we are currently developing a draft Law on the Circumvention of Agricultural Assignments. And this law will give you a professional test. Who can buy it? Only Ukrainians living in a territory that is qualified and so forth. We have a professional discussion, not a political market. We will then give this bill to the communities, to the rural councils, to the united territorial communities, to all associations, to provide feedback and to give in the professional discussion that they see the market. It's a market. Ukraine cannot be in three countries without a market. But the question is, which market? The second question is the system of financing a small farmer, a medium-sized enterprise. Where can you get the money to buy land? That's us, too. And the third problem that needs to be solved is the institutional capacity that the state will have on behalf of the state. And we'll find these answers. And I'm counting, like, April months.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u118	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u119	This bill is based on an agrarian committee and will be put to professional discussion at the level of all communities, farmers' associations and all market participants. We're going to get feedback and we're going to put 80 to 100 people in Parliament, the right law on the circulation of agricultural land. From a political debate, let's move to a professional level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u120	Thank you. And I hope that this year we will be able to adopt the law and open the market for the earth. In one minute, the vote will take place. I ask everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote. Now for Musak, who was unwarrantedly insulted during the discussion. Please, Mushak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u121	I thank Mr. Andrew Ivanchuk for mentioning the professional discussion. I and my colleagues have already introduced two laws on the market for land in different forms. First. Ukrainian land has the right. I speak in principle for as much free market as possible and for foreigners to buy. Because it's obviously the right thing to do, no matter how much you can't get away from it. But, okay, let's compromise. First. Ukrainian land can only be purchased by Ukrainians, natural persons, and legal persons who are registered under Ukrainian law. Second position. There must be a minimum price, at least 30,000 dollars. When the market is opened, the estimate is that the Ukrainian hectare will cost $2,000 and above. Third position. There should be concentration limits at community level, at district level, and at state level. My position is that no more than 1 percent of state land can be concentrated in one hand. This includes large agroholdings. Four. The original right to a lease, to a land ransom, has a tenant. Fifth. If you want to talk about where to take money, for example, for the army, for everything else, we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u122	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u123	So if you want to take money to build a fleet, build an army, we have 300 hectares of polygons that are actually being processed. 300,000 hectares of military polygons that are actually being processed. There are no questions -- we can sell them on open auctions, that's $600 million, that's the figure that allows you to build a high-quality fleet, for example, to resist aggression on the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. We can do this differently. So it would be a desire to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u124	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of December 20, 18th, on the adoption of the First reading on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on the amendment of Chapter X of the Land Code on the continuation of the ban on the alienation of agricultural land (9355-P). Vote please, colleagues. I'd like to make up my mind. An important fundamental question. Vote! [[13:39:38]] For-81 The hall was divided, unfortunately. The decree is rejected. Next. Project Regulation 9355-P1. After that, I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. Please, Mr. Victor. Support, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u125	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, it is evident that not only have I been motivated by such regulatory procedures but I have been moved to draft a corresponding decision. Obviously the second is that there is no chance of a positive vote on this project in this crowded room. But I deliberately introduced this project to draw attention to a problem that has been a stumbling block for Ukraine for many years. It's going to be 20 to 30 years -- and our children and grandchildren won't believe that their parents for decades have forbidden citizens to use their property, to own their property. I understand if we had a discussion about whether or not we should be private property. But there is no such discussion. Today, the land has been transferred to our citizens almost 30 years ago. What should we do with it now? They left them the only right to surrender to the oligarchs, to rent land for big and big oligarchs. And, in fact, today is the only segment of society that is interested in the existence of an eternal moratorium on earth. Cancelling the moratorium or granting the land right is not the goal, selling the land, it's the goal of giving multivariate behavior. First option. The right to sell opens up the possibility of accessing money. This is something that does not allow people to process the land themselves, because the earth is a great tool for securing credit. Second, it changes the terms of the lease when people have a choice. And the third moment is important. And the right to sell. The right to sell land is also vital in terms of involvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u126	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u127	Involvement of investments in a sector that, even in today's conditions, is in difficult circumstances demonstrating good economic dynamics. I hear there are countries where there is no state property, I don't deny it. But I don't know any country that has private property and is not allowed to own it. I call on my colleague, I understand that voting neither "yes" nor "against" changes the status quo. I urge the legislature this year to address the issues that will open up the earth’s civil market.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u128	Thank you. There was a report from the committee. Pinzenic reported one by one and the other. And that's why we're going straight to the factions. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. The People's Front is Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich is invited to speak from the People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u129	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Mrs. Alexander Kugel! I am very grateful to the members of the agrarian committee for listening to the proposal of the People's Front faction and promising that they will work out a document that will regulate the land market. But what I'd like to say is that I didn't say in my previous speech. Besides, those who can own as much land as they can, there is a very big problem, respected friends. And I'm especially talking to Alexander Bakumenko. Ukraine does not process more than 30 percent of the fertile land today. In this law you will make, there must still be responsibility for these owners of this land. Ukraine on every patch of our country is obliged to sow, it's our export potential, it's our strong Ukrainian currency, it's our place in the global market, it's our competitive advantage. So we still have to get the Ukrainian land to be processed, the seismics to be made. And I'm talking to Mrs. Helen. Ms. Olena Sotnik, you're absolutely wrong when you say that agro-holdings, big agri-business is bad. It's the other way around, they're the only ones who're watching the erosion of the earth, the seismics, the introduction of modern agrarian technologies themselves, they're funding science, that's the future. Because such crops in Germany are in America, not everyone in Ukraine can reach them today. So the main thing is that the whole country is being processed, and how it's being processed, what would it produce, what would it produce, what would it give CPD. So note this in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u130	Thank you. I'll give you a line, but you listen to Andry Volodymyrovich. I'll give all the members, all the factions. From Fatherland, it's Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u131	Dear friends, he's got to be, and he's got to start with something. I'm surprised that the hall didn't even mention in a word that two powerful steps have been taken here to unlock the earth's market, two more powerful steps. We adopted a law in the first reading, where millions of hectares of land are passed on to united communities but first read. Why did they slow down the second? The second law we passed on the development of family farming. Two hectares free, plus five with a long-term ransom: 10, 15, 20 years. Friends who prevent us from accepting the second reading and unlocking the process, starting with something from the state lands, what do we do? And then we'll see what Ukraine is if we look to Poland's experience. Think of Poland’s first years of independence. There's nothing. It says, "Friends, I don't have fish, I have a widow, take the land, you won't be poor anymore." And they created 2.6 million family farms, 10 hectares. Friends, it's been a few years, Poland's been overrun by production all over Europe, and we're on our way. How many farms do we have? One, two, and hesitating, barely stomaching. What will communities do after receiving several million hectares of land? Inventory: Who, what, where and where money goes. After the inventory, what? An application from their peasants, from their citizens who went into slavery to earn money, went to Poland to do what? Agriculture in the form of a rental. But go home, take your land, do what the Poles do. Guys, let's start with this. We accepted each other in the first reading. We take it in the second -- and we give you freedom of choice, whether you hire a Pole to go, or agroholding, or on your land, at home. We accept in the second reading, and that's it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u132	From the Samohelp faction Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u133	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help faction. Now I'm not primarily talking to those who are in the audience, to the national MPs, because they understand very well what they're talking about, and I'm talking to those who are watching the broadcast and listening to it. Mr. Victor Pinzenik was absolutely right to report on the decision when he said it didn't matter that we were voting on it. Why? I quote "Transitional Positions" now in the Code of Earth: "Sales-Sales or other means of alienating land and land particles (pays) defined by sub-paragraphs "a" and "b" of this paragraph are introduced under the Act on the Circumvention of Agricultural Assignments, but not before 1 January 19th." So when we vote in favour of repealing the relevant bill for the continuation of the moratorium, the only button missing from the remote is purple. Because it's not in principle how we vote whether we cancel the results of the vote or not, the moratorium will be in place until the Land Circumstances Act is passed. So this is the primary problem. And a short tour of history. Where did a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land come from in the Ukrainian legal field? In 1993, when the government introduced the draft Earth Code to Parliament, Ukraine’s first Earth Code, the Communist Party, which was then a small majority, said that there would be no code if there was no moratorium for 30 years. The ivy, the deceased, who was the speaker at the time, said, "Let neither yours nor ours be 8 years." And in this way, since the year 93, with a break of one and a half years and a half, we've been continuing the communist trend of a moratorium on land sales.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u134	From Peter Dustock's Block, Doubenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u135	Colleagues, in our discussion, we are moving towards the fact that we are going to have to adopt the law. In April it will be, in May or any other time. But there are two things I want to say that they push us to connect. First of all, whoever's out here today is talking about the market: someone's talking about the rent market, someone's talking about the land market, someone's talking about the circulation. Colleagues, we need to understand that the market functions on the basis of objective economic laws, and objective means whatever our will, desire and desire. So neither circulation nor anything else, and if the market, we should consider this objectivity. And the second. The land market, whether the lease market, or whatever, colleagues, should always be the right market in all countries and the market should be the right market, the right to land. We can only talk about rights. Now what are we talking about the market for, and for what is the market for rights? Because we have a goal -- the market of rights, because if I'm right, I can set up and get a resource to process this land, it doesn't matter whether it's a family, a farm or someone else. So when we write, we have to understand that the market for land rights -- that might be what will help us in the future to build up this agri-industrial complex. Otherwise, it's all conjecture that's not about the market, and it's not just about the speech room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u136	From the Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Well, it's, you know, very interesting to hear when the parents of the biggest latifundists, when a man who is the father of the privatization of the 1990s, tells how it's right today to do free circulation of land and how it's in the interests of Ukrainian peasants, Ukrainian people. They've seen it, they've passed, they've been trained. Look, the Ukrainians are a little wider. What is the main economic problem in our country today? Why are we trapped in the scales of the International Monetary Fund and the actual external management regime, and the authorities are acting under the auspices of the International Monetary Fund? Why so? I'll tell you why, not just as a politician, but as an economic deputy of Oleg the Light, but as an economist. Because in Europe 68 percent of exports are industrial products, in Ukraine 80 percent of exports are raw raw materials or raw materials with an absolute minimum level of processing, it's mostly agross. Here's the answer to that question. Because Europe is a manufacturer, and Ukraine today has a different profession, and it's a raw resource donor to neighbouring successful countries that have developed their economies and are today stealing from us talented people, seducing themselves, buying raw materials for nothing, making ready goods for themselves, having economic development, and we have 10 times as much to sell them for this raw material, and offering us credits to make certain decisions. Therefore, the position of the Radical Party is the opposite: it is not to waste land today, nor to talk about the market today, but to turn the country from a raw resource supplement into a manufacturer and into an area where people can live their own honest lives, the people of Ukraine, not a dozen people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u138	Colleagues, too many willing to speak, are very hot. [[Noise Nodes]] I know. Attention, attention! I'll give you guys a minute. Now I'm going to list the exclusive list. No, it's no longer possible, colleagues, it's five minutes away, it's impossible. Krivenko, Ivchenko, Sotnik, Snotlout. It's been identified, the Muggle is identified. And then Pinzenic. All right, colleagues, this is an exclusive list, because we're not gonna make it. My colleagues, I give one at a time, but we're different. We've got five minutes left. I'm giving it to the faction, as requested by the faction's head. So, Krivenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u139	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, voted in favour of independence in 91, while Communist Kravchuk was elected president. Not Chernobyl, which was a market for land, but the Communist Kravczuk, who kept the communist majority in the Supreme Council, and colleague Sidorovich spoke about how they left the people further in slavery to land, which began to destroy the army and which included the Church of Moscow. If it wasn't for him, we'd have our own church before. That is why we have always stood up for the earth’s market. Only a Ukrainian can own the land. We need to limit the concentration. The National Movement of Ukraine is clearly opposed to Communist approaches when ownership is prohibited. The Ukrainian was always the owner of the land. The Communists came and took it away. And what happens in individual patriots in my head I can't understand. There was never such slavery. The tenants were allowed to sell, and so were they privatized. Imagine if there were a moratorium on the sale of apartments. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u140	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u141	Why do they collect signatures for a moratorium on land in cities and not in villages? Five million slaves. What are you doing? A million people have died without taking advantage of it. So I urge you, this manipulation, when this law was voted on, even though the code was in force, there was no need to vote, but there were 230 populist buttons in the room, because the elections started. Have a conscience!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u142	Yeah, now the lines. Olena Sotnik first, then Yvchenko. Please, in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The earth is truly a great treasure. Earth is an asset. When you forbid people to use their property, their assets, you actually make them nothing and nothing. And when you decide that people are stupid, because they will sell for nothing, it means that you think the people of Ukraine are absolutely nothing, and you have the right to decide for them what to do with their own land, property. So when a person tells me that the Captain is wrong, or "self-help" is wrong, I suggest people watch who says it, and be critical, and understand who protects people, and who protects specific assets of specific rich people and specific oligarchs. There is no country in which 450 people decide whether 30 million other people are stupid or not. Because the earth is a right, and this right must be given to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u144	Thank you. Yvchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u145	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, in the year 98 when Kuchma signed the President's Order on Land Disruption, other possibilities were not given to the people who received these lands. They didn’t have microcredit, they didn’t have equipment lysis, they didn’t have government support to make their own money. What changed in 27 years? Today, 2019, what has changed? Do we have ice cream? None. Do we have an agrarian insurance? None. Is State support available to these people? None. It is people who rent these land from the bottom of nowhere. And someone's accumulating them into large arrays. And whoever is running in the hall today is asking everyone to vote for the moratorium. So let me tell you. Yes, the law of circulation is necessary, but people have fears, fears that we're not going to make the right round here, because everyone's here with their plans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u146	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u147	Everyone here came with their plans, their ambitions, or their tasks. And to those who are so fiercely saving from a moratorium today, I advise you to go to the Majority District each of you, go and tell the people that you want to sell the land today, and try to get it to people so that they don't be afraid. Because even people who want to sell, they have fears, because a simple man, a simple man, a simple farmer can't buy. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u148	Thank you. Now, colleagues, I'm continuing the session until the conclusion of the debate on this issue, we're unfortunately not making it. Slippery, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, today we can argue in the throat about what we should do with the Ukrainian land. But I want to tell you that 33 million hectares of the most fertile land in the world belongs to Ukrainians. And there's enough space and work on this earth for all of us: singles and family farmers and large associations, land structures. There is one desire and one need today to allow those who now own this land to rule. I totally support both Ivan Grigorovovich Kirilenko, and I support Pinzenik, who said there was no country in the world that would give them ownership, and then we said, "We forbid you to use this property." Earth is all equal to goods. And that's why I want to ask you, let's not argue. Because even we're here, if we say right now, you're going to introduce a single bill from the national MPs -- it's not going to happen, because there's every faction of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u150	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u151	A few views. Even in our 33-man committee, there are several groups that see the problem differently. So we are deeply convinced that the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act must be submitted and prepared by the Ministry through the Cabinet of Ministers, submitted as a government bill, and we will then polish it, make proposals and consult with people, and give it to the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u152	Thank you. Colleagues, pay attention! I'll give it to you. I was approached by two other nonfractionals with a request per minute. I went on. I hope no one will deny it? After one minute, two non-fractional: Leuchenko, Rosenblatt, Pinzenic. And that's already exclusive. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Well, colleagues, there's half a room that wants to speak. It's just me. Okay. Yeah, come on, Rosenblatt is one minute. And Rudik and Rudik for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u153	Thank you, colleagues, for your assessment. Dear colleagues, as long as we argue with you that the moratorium will be extended, the moratorium will not be extended, our Ukrainians are going abroad. They are today creating opportunities for Poland, for Hungary, for other countries. Once, during the Civil War, the great American President Abraham Lincoln did a Gomstead act. He gave everyone the right to go to the West and have a piece of land — 165 acres [65 ha]. They created a great America. What are we doing with you? We make a big Poland, we make a big Hungary and other countries, and we make a poor Ukraine. And we're going to keep doing this while there's a moratorium. The land belongs to the Ukrainian people, and they have to manage how they want it, not how we dictate it to them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u154	Lechenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u155	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 district, city of Kiev It was here that a lot of very funny things were said from this rostrum. I'd like to at least try to correct one. It is said that there is private property and that it cannot be restricted to use: the land of agricultural destination. Excuse me, do you mind if the weapon, when it's privately owned by someone, is a limitation on the use of weapons, is it possible to buy free circulation? And the enriched uranium, when it's privately owned, is it possible to limit its sale or not? Don't lie, please, from this rostrum, that you can't limit the circulation of some private property, it's just a lie. All civilized countries have certain restrictions on certain groups of goods. That makes sense. And that should be the limit on agricultural land, because it's our strategic resource. And for those of you who say about the Ukrainian people that someone in Parliament is forbidding something, I'm going to refer to you as a referendum. Go to the Ukrainian people for a referendum, and let the Ukrainian people give their opinion on the matter, and do not speculate on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u156	Rudik. And let's move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u157	Thank you, Chairman, for giving the floor to the ex-Head of the Ukrainian State Land Agency. Dear colleagues, on May 25th, 17th, I re-registered a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the order of sale of land leases on agricultural land. Which is again, because the first bill, which was registered in 15th year, without consideration by the committee of profile, was just forgotten and withdrawn. Dear members of the profile committee, please find time in your tough schedule to consider this bill in two years! There are answers to most of the questions that are of interest to Ukrainians. It's not the land that needs to be sold, it's the right to a long-term lease on land. It's a living story that makes it possible to invest in business and not to sell Ukrainian land, including to foreigners. If you have to ask for extra milk for bravery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u158	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing act. No, there will be no more speeches, colleagues. Pinzenic, and we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. Everyone, please come into the hall and take your seats. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, it may seem that neither discussion nor voting today is an absolute waste of time. I don't think so. I often have to express myself harshly about the work of our Parliament. But in this case, I'm going to say that this discussion was very useful. What's more, I'll say a pleasant surprise for me. We haven't had our first discussion in this room about "stupid-stupid" being, or not being, for the first time, raised, with little exception, the professional questions that it takes to create a civilized market for the earth. And that's a little joyous. In conclusion, I would like to request the following, distinguished colleagues. Obviously, there are many problems. And I would suggest that we hold parliamentary hearings in this mode, where we discussed the key issues related to the land market. And then move on to the drafting of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u160	Thank you. My colleagues, I fully agree with Mr. Victor that our discussion was very right and very important for society. I think we should have a big social discussion. Unfortunately, the unkind billionaires, the rich in the peasants, take the land by fictitious documents as an inheritance for a penny. They are humiliated, and then they are told that, God forbid, you will be deprived of your right. They'll give you the right to land. And it's very often the object of manipulation. We have to explain to people. Free people have the right to free rulership and to sell the land. We need to do a great deal of explaining work so that those who have channels and funds cannot fool the common people so that they know the truth and know justice about their rights, their responsibilities, and their responsibilities. So, colleagues, we understand that there has to be some kind of legislative basis, so I'm going to hold on personally until there's no legislative basis. We'll wait for her, we'll take her. And now I'm voting on the Bill 9355-P1. Whoever supports it, please vote. Vote. [[14:08:03]] For-65 Decree 9355 has been rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, I said I held back because there's got to be a legislative basis, because I'm waiting for the legislative base that the committee head was talking about. Fellows, keep your distance, we have another good news. Three minutes from two factions. Do you remember that negative emotion that we had called for the Polish Parliament to vote when the term "Ukrainian Nationalists" was introduced in the law? The President of Poland submitted to the Constitutional Court. And today the Constitutional Court has decided to remove the standards that apply to Ukrainian nationalists from this law. I am sure that this is a great sign of solidarity and friendship between our peoples and our parliaments. And now, at the request of two factions, I give the floor to the Prince and Oksani Jurinec, but Mikola Knieżicki will be speaking. Colleagues, let's listen to this and this moment together, together, let's do it in solidarity. Please, Mikola Knieżicki, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, my colleague Oksana Jurinec and I are co-chaired by a group of interparliamentary relations with the Republic of Poland. I want to thank all the members of the group who have worked actively all this time and have made every effort to stop the language of hatred and hysteria that they were trying to sow between the Ukrainian and Polish people. We welcome the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of the Republic of Poland. We welcome the decisions of Polish politicians who have always maintained good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and Poland. We want to point out that Poland is now going through an unforgivable time. We are in solidarity with the Polish people in their fight against the hatred that the outside forces are trying to spread in Polish society. This led to the death of the Polish mayor of Gdansk, Mr. Adamovich. What is happening in Polish society? Extremely bad things, because both the authorities and the opposition now want to develop a common relationship with Ukraine, they want to develop a relationship with the European Union. But there are forces that want to continue to radicalize Polish society and not allow this movement to engage in civilized cooperation with neighbors. That is why we thank the Polish Constitutional Tribunal, Polish society and express solidarity in these difficult times for the Polish people. No, hate in societies! No, hatred among the nations!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m0.u162	Thank you. Colleagues, for centuries one country, the Russian Empire, was a threat to both Ukraine and Poland. Our task is to be solidarity and, along with the free world, to shoulder the common enemy. And so this step is to increase solidarity between Ukraine and Poland, the Ukrainian and Polish people. Hello, colleagues, we've been waiting a long time. I said in my own time that I would not leave until that decision was made. Now, colleagues, I'd like to inform you that the national deputy of Krivoshia is asking to announce that his vote was in favour of Bill 9122, but the card didn't work. I'm making this public. And the Deputy Mantis also wants to emphasize that her voice was "for" and the Bill 4128-d, and 9122. And I declare her political position. And now I'm forced to announce a break in our dynamic work. We held a very powerful morning meeting, but unfortunately I have to announce now that the morning session is closed. I'm waiting for everyone at 4:00. Unfortunately, at 4:00 a.m. with new forces, we will move on to the continuation of our work. So at 4:00 a.m., I invite everyone into the hall. Thank you. I'll see you later.
