ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, dear colleagues, distinguished media representatives, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please take your seats, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? I remind you that registration takes place by clicking on the "for" button, the green button, yes, as indicated by colleagues, the green button, or the first on the left, as indicated by the distinguished Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. The owner proposes to make changes to the Rules. We look forward to this bill by Sergio Volodymyrovich. Please register, distinguished national MPs. [[10:03:37]] There are 300 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, our colleague of the national deputy of Negulewski Igor Petrovich's birthday. Welcome to the festival! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the day of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. [[Applause]] It's really a holiday, but it's a holiday with a bitter flavor. I'd like to thank both of you and, I'm sure, from the entire MP Corps to our Armed Forces, our soldiers who are serving today in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are protecting us on the front, allowing us to live peacefully in the cities and villages of most of our country. And this is an invaluable effort that we should honor with you. I wish I could have health. I would like to wish that I could return from the front as soon as possible to my loved ones, my loved ones, alive and well. Unfortunately, though, not all today will be able to return from the front and this is indeed the tragedy of the Ukrainian people. So I think it would be right if we respected the memory of the dead and those who did not return from war for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u2	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, a word. Dear colleagues, on December 5, 2019, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected to the election of Ukraine's national deputies on July 21, 2019 in the state-wide multi-mandatory constituency of Mandija Sergio Volodymirovic, who was included in the election list of the "Slut of the People" political party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a Ukrainian national deputy takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mandji Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u3	Good afternoon. I, Sergey Mandy, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u4	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Welcome. In accordance with part three of article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mandiya Sergey Volodymyrovich, into the political party's deputy faction "Serve of the People". In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report on the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ninth Call of the Deputy Group "Trust", made up of 17 Ukrainian National Deputies. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Ivanovich, was elected head of the "Trust" group. Vice-President of the "Trust Group" of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Lunchenko Valeriyovich. [[Applause]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lesia Valentinovna Zabranna, is invited to attend. Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u5	Honorable Presidium, Honorable Colleagues, Ukrainians! Let me also join you in welcoming Motherland's Day, and remind you that this week is the work of Parliament on human rights. A number of measures have taken place in Parliament, called for the attention of parliamentarians to the importance of protecting the rights of all citizens. First of all, we would like to thank the UN-Women International for its cooperation and to announce that there will be a gender-based audit of its inclusiveness in Parliament, which will finally help to ensure that people with disabilities have access to the building. In addition, with the support of the United Nations Population Fund, we joined the UN World Action "16 Days Against Gender-based Violence". The campaign began on November 25 of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women and will continue until December 10 – Human Rights Day. Gender - based violence is, unfortunately, a global problem today. This phenomenon is widespread and systematic. 90 percent of women who have suffered from violence are women. So think about it, 1 out of 3 women, 33 percent have experienced physical and/or sexual violence during their lifetime. Ukraine’s economic losses from violence against women amount to $208 million a year. We urge all Ukrainians and Ukrainians who face this phenomenon not to be alone with it and to turn to the national hotline 116123. Amnesty International is also an international organization every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u6	Let me finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u7	to support people who have been oppressed by their rights. Among this year’s stories is the case of Oxana Mamchenko, the mother of 12 children who suffered prolonged physical, psychological, and economic violence by a man. We're talking to the Ukrainian government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u8	Lesya Valentine's Day, I'm sorry. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a "hour of questions to the Government" is held in a drunkard from 10 a.m. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Hello. The Conciliation Council defined the theme "hours of questions to the government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about Ukraine's debt policy, the results of 2019 and the 2020-2021 strategy. Dear colleagues, the next order is proposed to hold an hour of questions to the government. Ten minutes is given to the finance minister of Ukraine for a specific topic. The minister of finance answers questions from MPs and groups for up to 35 minutes. Questions from national deputies are answered by government members for up to 15 minutes. Give one minute each oral question and two minutes each to answer it. Is there no objection to this form of our work? None. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Sergiyovna Markarov, is invited to the podium. Dear colleagues, we've changed the rules of our work, so let's do it anyway, if anyone's interested, let's do it this way, no, let's go back to the form that was before. Either there's silence in the hall, and we're listening to the reporter, or it's going to be just like last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished intercessors, distinguished national MPs! Thank you very much for being able to briefly describe where we are now and what our plans are in Ukraine's debt policy. The presentation that I'm going to show you here today, along with my presentation, can also be sent to all of you electronically, and we're ready to answer all the questions. Each country always borrows to solve its development problems or to cover its deficit. There are countries that borrow twice as much, have debt from their GDP, there are countries that are more controlled, as we are now trying to do. If you look historically at Ukraine's sovereign and guaranteed debt on the first slide, you will see that various factors have influenced, but including the latest currency fluctuations in the post-crisis in 2013, 2014, 2015 led to our debt at one point to 80 percent of our GDP. This was, of course, a big problem that is now on the way to such a stable solution, and we have reduced the debt already this year to less than 60 percent, and we hope that next year, in our plans, we will reduce it to a figure that will be less than 50 percent. Notice that each time the Ministry of Finance, in passing the budget, gave a document along with it telling us how we would bring the debt to 60 percent because it was a gold standard. We don't have to do this this year, because we've already brought him in and we're going to keep lowering him. When we developed a debt strategy, we did a diagnostic on what was wrong with our debt. The cause of problem number one was the magnitude of our debt. And if you compare us to those analogue countries that are able to do it effectively, we've seen that our debt is too high for an economy like ours. Clearly, then, it had to be reduced. Reason number two, problem number two is the external component. We have seen once again that, compared with countries that are successful, our external debt is much higher, and the internal debt that in most of the stable countries, those who practice sovereign debt stability, is, as they are, precisely relying on internal sources and the placement of internal debt. Reason number three is the currency vulnerability of our debt. 60 percent of our debt for 2018, the end, was in the currency. That's why as soon as we have devaluation, our debt becomes insurmountable for our budget. So this is problem number three. Number four is the cost of service. If you look on the slide at the structure of our debt, the structure is about 22 percent, it's our official so-called creditors: it's the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the European Bank of Reconstruction -- those who put money into the budget, but it's long-term and very cheap. But we have an internal debt, which is both in the currency and in the bracelet, it's a pretty expensive debt because it depends on both the market situation and the refinancing rate, the Nutzbank account rate, and whether there's demand in the internal market, to give us cheaper these costs. And also the Eurobonds that we put outside, which primarily depend on rating, on our perception. And these ratings, unfortunately, we didn't have very good ratings for the last 10 years. The next causes of problems are short - term commitments. If we analyze our debt by 2016, we'll see that we have, and even in the 17th year, that we had such short term loans. And there's always been a risk of refinancing, so we always have to think that in three months, we have to borrow, in six months, and this is a big uncertainty, let's say, if we can't, it's going to depend on the budget. It's consistent with what we've set ourselves, what we've not only done, but we're pleased to tell you and the people of Ukraine that we've met these goals in the 19th year. First. We've made it very clear to ourselves, coming out of these problems, that the marginal amount of government debt to GDP has to be reduced, and it's reduced dramatically. In the 18th year, 52.3 percent (this is a government debt, not a state debt, but a government debt guaranteed) at 19th, 50th in 20th, 45th in 24th and should be at least 40 percent. As we planned to do so in order to solve other problems. First. To increase the share of the debt in the national currency is in the bracelet. The other one. To increase, to make the graph more even, by extending the terms so that we can borrow 3, 4, 5 years, and preferably by 10 years, and then by 30 years, and then by 30 years. So that we don't have to solve the debt refinancing problem every month. And the third. It's the development of strong relationships with investors, their information, and their constant support of information about what's going on with the budget, how the budget is being implemented. We're in the IMF program, the IMF program is being implemented. And when we get out of it and we don't need IMF support anymore, then our long-term three-year budgets will be the basis for investors, and we'll see that, it'll be reflected in the rating. What did we achieve in the 19th year? First. We opened an international depository network in the 15th year, a link with them, the Clearstream link, and this allowed us to place the DDP's internal bracelets, where foreign investors began to enter. We launched our auctions to Wloomberg through the site, which means not only our auctions. Now it's a matter of transparency and the use of an international platform. It's been possible since October. For the first time in ten years of this summer, in July, we released Eurobonds into the euro, because our payments are increasingly and more clear going into the euro, we're more integrated into the economy of Ukraine, and we put them under 6.75 percent. And that's only the beginning of our history of posting in the euro. We also succeeded in the internal market because we brought non-residents here for the first time to put six-year paper, and for the first time, investors invested in bracelet paper for six years. And we put it at about $1.4 billion, which will also allow it to be included in the indices. So a much wider circle of investors is going to be able to invest. We've certainly expanded our cooperation with the IFF, and we already see the result is that the credit ratings -- three agencies this year have either raised the ratings themselves and raised the outlook for the future, or without raising the ratings like Moody's, have raised the forecast from stable to positive. And they also received a series of rewards for our position both in openness and in transparency in terms of debt management. As you can see, our bracelet debt on the slide, we're dealing with the issue of mostly bracelet debt. What's more, if we look at the terms of this debt on the next slide, it's going to be long. We're sure to place two-, three-, four- and even six-year papers on the local market. Well, most of all. A rapid downturn in debt. You remember the beginning of this year, when we had very limited demand, when there was a politically volatile situation before the elections, when even domestic local banks were not very happy to invest, and the rates came to 20, 19 percent in the bracelet. We've managed through all of these actions -- opening up the market, opening up information and all of the infrastructure points -- to reduce debt very quickly. And for the first time, in fact, last week, we put the bonds below 3.88 percent, it's really very low, it's actually the lowest rate that was in Ukraine, and the three-year bond bracelets out of those almost 20 percent down to 12.4 percent last week. And that's not the limit. We're going to keep extending the terms, we're going to keep lowering the bets. If you look at the next slide about how many of these non-residents that we hear so much about have gone into our system, or whether there are many or few of these four billion dollars that we've been able to get into in the 19th year, you'll see that, compared to most of the analogue countries, 13 percent of our debt is in the hands of these international investors, and especially considering that it's mainly concentrated in long-term papers 3, 4 and 5 years, it's not really a threat to the domestic financial system of Ukraine, and it's very modest. a fraction compared to any country starting with the Czech Republic, with Poland, with Russia, with Romania, with those countries that are in our comparison group. What our goals are for the 20th year are very short. First of all, you can see this in our debt management strategy, which is a public debt that we all update. And at the beginning of the 20th year, it will be updated again with the budget declaration for a longer period. But first, we're going to work on lowering the cost of debt service, less than 10 percent of the expenditure in the 24th year should go to debt service. We're going to extend the average term, we're going to increase the bracelet part of our debt, and it's going to have to be more than 50 percent to make the risk of any currency fluctuations less likely to be in debt. We're going to increase the amount of credit we have: the amount of credit we have not only in the budget, but also the amount of credit we have in the infrastructure projects, which is very important in order to support economic growth. And we are certainly going to reduce the ratio of government debt to GDP. Less than forty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u10	Thank you. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u11	Less than 40 percent by the end of the 24th year is our goal. In this way, debt policy will move from the question that we are discussing as a risky or problematic issue to a normal discussion of the funds to finance Ukraine's further growth. Thank you. I am ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u12	Thank you, Oksana Sergey. Let us turn to questions to the minister of finance from the MP factions and groups. Please register the MP factions and groups for questioning. Comer Natalia Igorovna. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u13	Madam Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you first of all about the strategy of the amount of State and State-guaranteed debt in foreign currency. We hear from you all the time different programs, strategies for the service of government debt, but we see an increase in the amount of government and state-guaranteed debt. Even from the beginning of the year, it has increased from 78 billion to almost 82 billion dollars, which is significant. And the second moment. Of course, it's kind of manipulative about the significant weight of the holding in GDP, because we understand that even nominal growth in gross domestic product does not always show a real decline in the holding. And in closing, I would also like to ask you how you're going to reduce the share of the Ukrainian budget, because you know, not to tell you, 365 billion dollars or, there, one third of the budget revenue is new borrowing. At what time will we give up the total amount? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u14	Thank you so much for asking. Actually, this question requires the answer, not about the debt, but about the other part. The main reason we have this debt, that it's created, and that we're going to refinance it now is because we've always had a deficit budget. When we have a deficit budget, it means that we spend more than we do as a country. That's why fiscal consolidation, simply spending as much as we earn, is our strategy, which we are very clearly implementing, and from almost 10 percent of the total deficit that was, there, a state of 13 years, we have now reached 2.3, and for the next year, a budget that we are very grateful for, in time, the Supreme Council, our budget is set at 2 percent of the total deficit. That's why with the economy growing, the economy is growing more, the deficit we're reducing, properly borrowing, because the old debt we have to pay back, we're going to be less. So if you look at it, the increase in the total debt, it's going to go much lower than the growth of our economy. When can we completely give up on this and just go to the market, when do we need it for development projects? It's when we have the laws that we've adopted here, when we're completely overcoming the government budget deficit. That means we're going to be privatized, concessions are going to be made, and we're going to have an increase in revenue without raising taxes. And that's when we're going to be able to move on to a reduction in total borrowing. But when we get to 40 percent, and it's absolutely realistic, not just a strategy, we have a clear plan underneath it, and we're already doing it, by that time you'll see that no more than 10 percent will go into the budget to actually handle debt issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u15	Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevna. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u16	Dear Oksana Sergiyevna, we are grateful for the partial disclosure of 500 Social Development Orders. But I want to tell you what's going on with those objects. These are not all objects that are registered in the treasury after work has been done. I am approached by many colleagues as a member of the budget committee and are told that both Winnitzka and Hmělničina and Lvivščina, and other objects registered in the treasury, but unfortunately no payment was made for 500 Orders. In addition, acts of work already done on infrastructure objects are still registered in the treasury. And I'm going to have to ask you to disprove 500 of the decrees that have already been registered. And take into account those acts of treasury that will now be registered in November and December of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. People's Deputy. I'll take that as a parliamentary request. By the end of the day, we will have all the information and provide, and we will inform, both on the specific objects that you said and on the whole, that the funding will be fully secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u18	Sergey Vladislavovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u19	Sobolje, Fatherland. I've got a proseic question that's easy to run on all the numbers. The rate of the bracelet has been strengthened in terms of the dollar. Global fall in gas and oil prices And in the 20th year budget, you're not putting down tariffs, you're putting down subsidies. Please explain this policy, and what is it based on economic reasons? The second question is about your report. It's about the sums that came from the sale for a lot of money. on very convenient terms of the GDP, they're actually laying down on our external borrowings, which we're still going to have to pay off. Please tell me, how is this taken into account in the totals of our debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u20	On the first question. You answered the questions yourself. I mean, together with the fact that we have a lower price for gas, and together with the stronger rate, it's obvious that the price that people are going to pay is going to be lower. Accordingly, the funds that were put in place in the 20th year of the grant programme, according to the accounts of the Ministry of Social Policy of the relevant services, will fully provide all the citizens who meet the criteria and need this support, with full support for this heating season. So here we have to say that everyone is totally calm, everyone is going to be given a subsidy, the criteria for this season for receiving subsidies are not changing. So on this issue, how about the funds that you voted for in the 20th year budget for subsidies are enough. As far as our bond issue is concerned, we are issuing bonds in the national currency, because all countries that have done so successfully, and we are putting more emphasis on this, even when they are placed in the internal market, they are being redeemed by non-residents -- it still does not increase instability, more loyally, improve the sustainability of debt policy. Because when they're placed in long-term items and they're placed in bracelets, they're not the equivalent of external borrowing, and that's the development, including the internal market, and these papers don't fall into currency risks. So this strategy will continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u21	Motovlover Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u22	First of all, I welcome the government and the minister with the latest loans. They're pretty low. Congratulations, you've done a very good job. I have a question. I remain optimistic about GDP growth. We have a direct dependence on GDP growth and the restructuring of Natalia Jaresko. Please tell me, what is Minfin's strategy for debt service and restructuring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u23	Thank you very much. Today, given the macro-predict that we have, we see that we have the so-called trigger that doesn't start these payments yet, and that's obviously, that is, these papers for today, potentially, let's say, paper is not part of our debt, and so today the conditions that make them so are not. Of course, we're all working to boost the growth of the economy. And at the same time, of course, we're looking at working to keep the economy completely under control, including the additional risks that this could pose. We have, you know, the first three years that we have pay restrictions. Even if there comes a moment like this about how in our strategy we plan to deal with this, this issue is being actively discussed by both the ministry and the government. We will be ready to share our work as soon as they are ready to talk to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u24	Pippa Natalia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u26	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u27	Vasilchenko Galini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u28	Vasilchenko Galina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u29	Thank you very much. Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction. Mrs. Oksana, from your presentation, it seems that the need for a debt service budget is decreasing significantly, which can reduce the tax burden on business. In this context, and given other economic indicators, we think it's useful to talk about looking at the increase in turnover limits for the first, second and third groups of entrepreneurs. They have been taking protests for several months now, claiming to be unheard of. And in particular, we want to hear what the Ministry of Finance thinks about this, because it's already registered, and including our faction, a few bills in the Supreme Council that are actually designed to raise these limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u30	Thank you. I'll give you a two-part answer. First. In Ukraine’s budget, expenditure can only be spent on income. And we all know that funding, part of it, is not income financing. What we're borrowing from debt and what we're getting from privatization can only be used in the budget to pay off other people's deficits or finance deficits. So in order for us to have more than our expenses, we need to have more income. Or in order to reduce income, you also need to have some other income. At this point, the budget that was approved for the 20th year is balanced by income and expenditure, but so far, even if we cut our borrowing very significantly, it will hardly directly affect direct income and expenditure. As far as the individuals of entrepreneurs are concerned, not only do we hear them, we now have a group on a weekly basis, as well as a group of Coordination Councils organized in the Ministry of Economic Policy, but we also have a group working with the State Tax Service and the Ministry of Finance, on how to solve the two major problems that are in real small FOPs, not those that use this system to tax evasion in large companies. The real little FOPs are worried about two questions about how active we are right now. The first is how transparent, free and easy the system of these electronic RROs works and we're working on this right now, we're going to have a few clarifications of Minfin, and we have a year to do that. And secondly, they're afraid of their future relationship with Tax. So we're about to go out with the Tax Service, including the Presidential Decree, which refers to how Tax will not be a risk factor and will not be a negative factor for those real FOP entrepreneurs that we respect and are absolutely committed to creating the right conditions for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u31	Friz Irina Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u32	Please give the floor to my colleague Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u33	One more time, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u34	Mikhailo Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u35	Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Mrs. Oksana, I'm going to have to ask you this. In view of the fact that coal mines are now being killed in the country, miners do not have their own resources to pay their wages. By the end of the year, we're going to have to change our budget again for the 19th year to pay them their salary. Against the background of the fact that the income part of the budget is not running, I'd like to hear from you how this can be implemented. I'm ready to introduce a bill, only I'd like to hear from you the sources of the bill's fulfillment to pay off the debt to miners by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u37	Thank you very much, Your Honor. In fact, I'll probably leave the answer to the minister of profile. And I'd like to talk to the department of profile that's in charge of this policy. From the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, when there was a question, and the government as a whole responded actively, and the national MPs quickly adopted the decision to allocate another billion dollars, which was literally sent to all the mines where the wages were owed. There is another point to be made here that the question is not just debt, the question of coal is structural, and it's not the first year. And so, really, on the first question that we have to do, which is first of all honest to the miners themselves, the people who are working absolutely hard, in very difficult conditions, it's to figure out which mines we might have are profitable, can be at least callous, and support, invest in these mines. And to figure out where in those mines that are deeply damaged and perhaps still have no prospect of doing anything to protect people as much as possible, to provide them with alternatives, to provide them with full social support and security to solve these issues. But I think it's a matter of more extensive discussion, including involving a profile minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to sign up again for a statement from the MP factions and groups, it's still time. And about the work in the hall. Honorable colleagues, even calling from the regions, say that disqualification occurs when a minister speaks and national MPs walk and, in other words, behave not as government officials. Because if people can see that, I hope that you will understand that, too, your respectable colleagues from different factions and groups. Andrew Andryovich, Nestor Ivanovich. I wasn't just looking. Now it's been written that a person from Luhansk County has called, asked the Head of the Supreme Council to contact the National Deputies to treat their colleagues from the ministries differently. Thank you. Motovlover Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u39	That's my question. The program of our party is the adoption of the Law of Ukraine on outstretched capital. We realize that its adoption can have a profound impact on the budget. According to your projections, when can we return to discuss this issue and implement the Party's "Serve of the People" program? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u40	Thank you very much. In fact, in order to execute the party program, we've been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers and you've approved our Government Action Programme. In the Government's Programme of Action, the Ministry of Finance set up a comprehensive tax reform for 2020. In particular, this is a question we're discussing with all of our experts right now. What are we going to do about it? Starting at the beginning of the year, we're going to run a pretty quick diagnostic of our tax system. In fact, we haven't had this complex diagnostic system in a very long time, and in the last few years many changes have been made, including you're already discussing many bills, and some of the bills that have already been passed that we've decided yesterday have been comparing, very many questions from that bill on taxes on capital output, but it wasn't only about the capital outsourced that was discussed a few years ago. So our plan, in fact, which I hope, and we'll be together with a committee of profile, but I think that all the MPs will be pleased to join, as of January, with a fairly quick, a few months, diagnostics and parallel work by the government along with the parliamentary committee as a result of this diagnostic of the proposal for comprehensive tax reform. Accordingly, we plan to do this in a responsible way next year in order for business to take part in this too, in order for business to understand what awaits them. And if we come together to the common goal, what exactly do we have to do, what reform to get it approved in time, so that we have at least 6 months in business, and maybe more than 6 months in business, and maybe more than 6 months in business. And in this, completely coordinated way, a way to improve the tax system, starting in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u41	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u42	Thank you. I have a question for you. We had a field meeting last week with the Transport Committee at Borispol Airport. All of Ukraine’s domestic airlines and the state of development were listening. You've taken nearly 90 percent of Boryspilla airport's investment in dividends in the last year and basically stopped airport development because there's no financing for platform construction, development, parking, airport services, and so on. In fact, the airport has stopped in development today, and we don't see it. The other one. The domestic airlines are now uncompetitive because there is an additional tax of 94 euros from a ton of excise duty on aviation fuel, an internal VAT on inland flights, on airline tickets. And the third. It's us flying around Russia, and because of that airline, Ukrainians are uncompetitive to others. Are you prepared to lift all these restrictions and allow Ukrainian aviation to stand on its feet and be competitive, to lose their tickets? And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u43	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u44	And the second part of the question. What's happening today with the dollar rate? See how manufacturers, industrialists, and exporters suffer, in fact, lost 20 percent of their profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I'll answer you, I'll start with a piece of net profit and dividend policy. Because perhaps the question that you've pointed out to the second, it requires more discussion on the very profile minister and the issues that relate to the development of the sector, the development strategy, it's less about the financial part that's secondary here actually. With regard to dividend policy and the policy of part of net profit, this is actually a decision that is made every year in the State budget of Ukraine. And this is part of the net profit and dividends that are part of the revenue that, once put into the state budget, the Cabinet of Ministers should assign exactly the percentages that will ensure that this policy is implemented. At the same time, this is in no way limiting the development of companies, because, first of all, by some companies that show better results, by which we see that there is a need to direct a portion of the company's net profit or financial result to development, it is possible to settle it through discussion and approval by the Cabinet of Ministers of Enterprise Financial Plans. Regrettably, many businesses are either mishandling them, or they are not very good - quality in their design. So we're going to pay attention to what you're looking at right now, and we're going to send you more extensive information about what the reasons are and what the problems there are for the development of the airport, which the government has always been going to meet in the agreement plan and the international projects that were being carried out at Borispol Airport, and the internal projects that Borispold Airport has submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, we will be able to provide detailed information. As far as development is concerned, the general system is concerned. Once again, the Ministry of Finance is ready to participate from a financial point of view in such strategies, but let's leave this to the profile minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we don't have a debate right now. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u47	Dear Mrs. Oksano, the fact that international financial institutions give Ukraine non-commercial loans of 1.5-2 percent, evidence of lack of reform and increased corruption risks. Experts associate this with, among other things, the situation around Private Bank, the pressure on NBA, and other Cologne activities in the banking system. What government sees measures to overcome the negative impact of these factors on Ukraine’s investment and credit attractiveness? Do you think this is the responsibility of the government or the president?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u48	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to tell you that our international financial partners, in fact, are very supportive of Ukraine, for which we are very grateful. This year, in just 10 months of the 19th year, the EBRD invested 1 billion euros in the economy, in various projects in Ukraine. This year the European Investment Bank has also significantly increased its portfolio. This year, an international financial corporation announced that they had approved on the Board of Directors of their investment in Ukrgazbank, one of the state banks in which we achieved the results that allowed our partners to be involved. This year, the International Monetary Fund responded quite quickly to the proposal after a new government was formed, to the proposal to consider a new long-term programme that we are working very actively with them right now. So I want to say that maybe if you compare us again with the analogue countries, and we did this in our study, the cost of international financial partners in our part is pretty high, now it's almost 25 percent, which shows a high level of confidence in Ukraine. Do we have problems that need to be solved? Absolutely. And you all know that. And the demonization of the economy that we're working on with you, here is even the first palm in Parliament, and the concessions that you've approved, and we're finally going to be able to run a normal transparent business on a lot of objects that are now in the hands of no one. And the Privatization Act, which will hold up a lot of objects, which, you can see, Timothy Milovanov is now practically visiting these businesses every week, and it is evident that many of them have nothing to do with an efficient enterprise. So there's a lot more we need to do to transform our economy, but that's exactly what we're doing. The ratings are improving, if you and I are successful here, the trust of international partners will be even higher for our economy and for our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u49	Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u50	I give the word of Volodymyr the Cabal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u51	Cabal Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u52	Oksana Sergiyevna, I've seen that, in fact, the cost of serving the debt of 145 billion in the 20th year is a good achievement of the Ministry of Finance. But that figure came to my mind. 155, about the same amount, 155 billion was spent by the state to save Private Bank, which means every Ukrainian spent 4,000 dollars to save the bank, well, somewhere, he gave up that money, everyone dropped out, gave it to a former shareholder. And the total amount of non-performing loans in this bank is 200 billion, and in all of the holdings are about 400 billion, that is, 10 billion dollars each of the Ukrainians has been thrown down by the former shareholders of all the banks. That's an appropriate question. What is the Ministry of Finance doing now? What is the situation in solving this problem? And where are we now, and when can we recover these funds, so that instead of collecting the debt, we can finance the deficit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u53	Thank you very much. That's a very good question. First. These are the funds that the state has invested, you could say they were forced to decapitize Private Bank as well as several other banks. Let's also remember that Private Bank, unfortunately, is not the first bank that the state has to save when it's in this situation. So this money that the government has invested, it's not just the money that we've invested, it's also the interest that we have on these papers that are now in the portfolios of virtually all state banks. That's why we have each bank, and Private Bank here is not an exception, it's a very clear strategy, but under Private Bank, this strategy is not only the Ministry of Finance, but also the strategy of the bank itself, the Supervisory Board and all the bodies that were involved in the nationalization of Private Bank. The strategy is very clear, which aims at minimization as a minimum, but also at the return of part or all of the funds that the state has invested. We have a strategy for the development of state banks, which, including this issue, is enlightened, and it's public on the Ministry of Finance's website. We're willing to discuss in very detail each bank, including Private Bank, which and how we do in order to minimize and recover taxpayers' costs. As far as the rest of the banks are concerned, so is the case. Because 70 billion dollars is a debt from the Deposit Guarantee Fund to the government, to the budget, which means to taxpayers. These guarantees can only be reimbursed by the Guarantee Fund if it collects these funds from those banks, over a hundred that have gone to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. And here it's a joint effort not only, perhaps, not as much as the Ministry of Finance as the Deposit Guarantee Fund, but also the entire law enforcement system. And you know, there's a special group set up in the Attorney General's Office that coordinates all these issues from the Attorney General's Office. And we're already seeing pretty actively those cases that were being investigated for what the result is. So I think any additional involvement of the national MPs will just be welcome. We are ready to disclose and show all the information, including in our State Bank strategy on the Ministry of Finance website.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u54	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u55	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear Mrs. Oksana, with great respect for your work and understanding how difficult it is for you, I want to have a little argument with you. You pointed out that your ministry doesn't affect the development of industrial policy. And yes, and no, because you're responsible for the fiscal part and the formation of the tax portion that applies to industries in Ukraine. Mrs. Oksana, we can sell our assets, privatize them, and we really need to privatize some. We can sell land, we can engage even more external debt, but there's another way to fight deficits -- that's to build up our own industrial potential. Please tell me, do you think Bill 1210 will contribute to the development of industry in Ukraine or will it produce some industrial assets abroad? I'm very concerned that some of the BEPS steps can trigger an alarm in Ukraine, and this will lead to a further decline in the revenue of the state treasury. Please comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u56	Thank you very much. In fact, Ukraine's involvement, the implementation of the first 4ths, not all 13ths, but only 4 BEPS steps is to prevent tax evasion and tax evasion, which are in Bill 1210, it contains other norms, but the basis is BEPS's steps, these are actually the first, first steps in real de-offshoring, which Parliament, together with the government, I hope, will do in this year and we will be able to implement them further. In fact, we should speak honestly to all of our citizens -- BEPS, these are the first four steps, and even more -- other countries of the European Union, where we are going, have implemented long ago, so when we implement them in Ukraine, what does that mean for Ukrainian companies? This means that those companies that have structured themselves, where the Ukrainian owners are, where there are Ukrainian assets in Ukraine, but they are structured as some non-residents who don't understand offshore offshore offshore, and that's where they leave their profits, and that's where they sell to each other these companies, and the Ukrainian budget, the Ukrainian taxpayers who pay taxes here honestly, don't have this opportunity to just run multimillion-dollar, and sometimes multi-billion-billion-dollar operations without taxes in Ukraine, it's a direct negative impact on Ukraine's budget. So the BEPS part in 1210 doesn't have any negative effects on industrial policy, it's equalizing the rules of the game. She says that all companies in Ukraine should pay their taxes fairly. Because a person who is registered in Ukraine does not use offshores and pays taxes honestly in Ukraine today does not have fair rules. And whoever structured them somewhere without having the right to do so actually gets an uncompetitive advantage. Therefore, it is in the BEPS section that the Ministry of Finance is supporting Bill 1210. And we think that's equalizing the rules of the game in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u57	Mikola Leonidovich, I don't see. Is he in the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u58	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u59	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u60	Dear Oksana Sergiyevna, distinguished members of the government! This may be a question, not to Oxana Sergiyivna, but to a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I would like to know what the situation is with the acquisition of special funds for the State Service in emergency situations? The fact is that the tragedy in Odessa demonstrated the complete absence of the State Service from the extraordinary situations of modern - day means of protecting and saving people. And there are no modern ladders, no trampolines, and so on. I've heard that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is buying screwdrivers and so on. Are there plans to buy modern remedies for our people? And according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, who's supposed to do this? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u61	Good afternoon! In fact, there was a great tragedy in Odessa, where a large number of people died. To date, rescue workers have begun to work 24 hours a day. The media are reporting this. And you can see that our rescue workers are working together and efficiently. We spend every year buying new fire protection equipment to ensure that our rescue workers do not need anything. We'll see what kind of fire extinguishers were missing that day in this place. And let's answer your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, there are three minutes left. Please sign up for factions. There will be one question: one answer. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Oksano Sergiyevno, two questions. As for the International Monetary Fund, what are our prospects? And the second question. With regard to the absolutely faithful policy of replacing OGCs in currency with bracelets, but don't you think they're still too expensive for our state, and maybe cut the stake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u64	Thank you very much. I'll start with the second question. First. Borrowing in any currency, of course, should always lead to a common denominator. So when we talked about the bracelet that we borrowed under there 18 -- almost 20 percent -- it's definitely very expensive. That's why we never borrowed a bracelet like that for long term terms. These were extremely short papers, most of which had already been repaid because we understood that this was an exceptional situation of the inability to otherwise finance the budget and the inability to meet the commitments that Ukraine should perform in the first months, especially when years were coming and we should do so to spend socially important expenses. But now we've reached 12.4 by the bracelet. We still think we can borrow cheaper. And you see, our policy is constantly focused on limiting and lowering rates, too. That's why we hope it's not a limit yet, and our positive development and economic development, and the reforms that we're doing, and the increased trust will increase demand, which means we'll be able to lower the stakes further. Can they be replaced by, for example, $3.88, which seems to be much cheaper for the average person? Of course, the rule here is very simple: we need to borrow dollars for the purposes in which we pay in dollars. Borrowing in dollars to make a dollar payment, even if it seems to be cheaper, and it's also advice to all citizens not to take credit like that, it's actually taking on a currency risk that, in the case of God, devaluation makes debt impossible to repay. That's what all those who took foreign exchange loans know without having any foreign currency. So we're trying to cut interest on all of the absolute currencies. We'll do it as fast as we can, at the same time, by doing part of the borrowing budget. About the International Monetary Fund. We're actively working with our partners. Once again, I want to remind you that this is a long-term three-year program. That means we have to agree on our entire plan of action for three years now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u65	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u66	So it's clear that such programs can't be discussed in a week, yes, they require some agreement once again so that we can actually discuss with you the program that we are planning to do, which is in our plans, which is with realistic terms. Because this time the IMF program should not just start and stop, as it has been so many times, or start and give up. We have to do it, get out of it and have Ukraine's economy in three years' time in a state that we will not need a lender of our last hope, but we will be able to work on an equal footing with our international financial partners to develop our economy further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u67	Thank you, Oksana Sergiyevna. Dear colleagues, there is a request to sign up now for a question before. Yes, take your place. Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] There is a request to enroll from the national deputies questions to the government as a whole, please. Please, National Deputy Placheva Tetjana Mikhailovna, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u68	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u69	Natalia Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, a respected government! We all expect very much from you not intent, not considering fantastic programs today. We expect specific decisions from you. And the first decision you're going to make today is the whole country's tariff policy. We've all heard from the President that in 2021 people will receive lower tariffs. Dear Prime Minister, by 2021 many people will not live with these tariffs. That's why we're offering you a meeting. We're ready to tell you how to lower tariffs this year, this winter, and that's why we insist on this decision. And also about social standards. We're ready to offer you a program to get out of the pension crisis. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u71	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u72	That promotion is now retired and social standards. We can show you where to take the money today and so we insist: let's create one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u73	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u74	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. First of all, I want to thank you for the fruitful work that you are demonstrating today, this week. You're very cool. You've done a lot of the right things for the country. With respect to tariffs. We are doing everything we can to make as many people as possible in the winter. We're working on it right now. But the president was talking about what a significant decline is possible when we bring our actual communal economy into order, our networks. Because the rate of loss in these networks in individual cities is more than 50 percent, we're just burning up space. We're ready in the government to meet with you, with the national MPs, who have some ideas how to do this faster. Thank you always for your constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexei Valeriovich. Please give the floor to National Deputy Calchenk Sergey Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u76	Please give the floor to my colleague Alexander Zavávněvich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u77	Give the word to Alexander Zavávnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, I have been approached by a working group of the branch of the Center for the Management of Crossroads and Directors of Careers. This branch’s careers are capable of producing billions of dollars in produce. Until recently, the branch was profitable, this is 2018. But in the last year, after the appointment of the so-called "watchers" of the Crucifixions, there was damage. In just 9 months of this year, minus 130 million dollars. At a time when all of us in our national budget are counting every penny, we are looking for additional articles of revenue, and the state branch is deliberately bankrupt. Production, which can make a great deal of competition for private companies, is being destroyed. Career leaders are under pressure. So I'm asking you, the Ministry of Infrastructure, to look into this situation and provide it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u79	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u80	So I'd like you to take a look at this situation and give your professional evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u82	Thank you for asking, it's very important. I've publicly expressed my position on the state of affairs at the Railroad. I think it's a very difficult situation. And you're absolutely right, there's a lot of corruption. We come from the fact that corruption continues there on a case-by-case basis. However, we need to take into account that there is an independent supervisory board in the Crossroads that affects management directly. As a government, we have already appealed to the Supervisory Board to review the effectiveness of the operations of the Crossroads management and to make appropriate personnel decisions. We insist as a government that corruption in the Cruise Station be stopped immediately in this important state company. And we're doing everything we can to make it happen as quickly as possible. I expect that by the end of this year the situation in this company will change seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u84	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group. I have a question for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy. I would like to remind you, in December, very soon, that we will be marking the Day of the Liquidator in Ukraine and talking about the problems associated with the consequences of the disaster at the Chernobyl nuclear station. To remind you, until now, the issue of the social protection of Chernobyl, including liquidators, remains extremely complex and unresolved. It is said that a new draft law on the support of Chernobyl is being developed. But from what we've heard, it can be about worsening social protection. I want to shed some light on whether, in fact, a new basic law is being prepared, and how the budget for the following year provides for a reduction in the funding of Chernobyl programs, as planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u85	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u86	My answer will not only apply to Chernobyl, but we have a lot of people in Ukraine who need social protection and support. The Ministry of Social Policy is indeed now conducting a comprehensive evaluation of the effectiveness of these programs. We come from the fact that many of these costs are inefficiently spent, that part of these funds go to dead souls, that part of these funds are wrongly accounted for, people don't get what they need. In general, the reform of the social assistance and support system now, we think, requires a very careful attitude, first of all through verification, we want to bring together the data of the various State registers now in order to make sure that it is those who need it or who actually deserve it because of their status. We don't have any individual initiatives on Chernobyl right now, don't believe the rumors. But we really have a job going on to look at the whole system of social assistance and support, and offer Parliament a decision that we think will lead people who really need social assistance and support, get it, and people who have, for example, a house 500 meters, drive to Porsche Cayenne and so on, and so on, and so on, and apply for state support, won't get a chance to spin the state any further. Thank you for paying attention to this important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is given by Coltunovich Aleksandro Sergiyovich. Please, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u88	Mr. Prime Minister, I have a question for you. As of November 1, 2019, we had a debt to pay off wages that has set a historical maximum of 3 billion 438 million dollars. It's already happening with you, and it's increasing at a record rate of debt from payout. 41 million dollars is a December month for the movers, and this is a question of the deficit from the Social Insurance Fund. Minus 5 percent is the decline in industrial production. And I can count these numbers long and boring. Do you think the country is moving in the wrong direction? What steps will you take to stimulate economic growth, not in nominal terms, but in real ones? And most of all. What are you going to do with your debt to pay your salary, which has gone up to a record mark? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u89	Thank you for asking, it's important again. You remember that from your participation, thanks to you for this, we have paid off a considerable debt to miners. I know it's going to accumulate again, and we're doing everything we can to keep it at a minimum, so that the pay that can be paid is paid on time. We are now looking for an opportunity to calculate the debt by the end of the year in order to solve this issue as soon as possible. With regard to the salaries of teachers, physicians, debts that were created in the areas through, in particular places, the errors of redeployment, in certain places because the structure and education system, and in medicine were optimized there, in fact, because of the wrong decisions on the sites, the government conducted an analysis of all these situations and last week we decided to redistribute more than 500 million dollars in such a way that most of these debts would be repaid to teachers and doctors. Of course, we realize that there are still problems in some cases, and now we are dealing with individual cases with each governor individually and analyzing how the debt occurred. For the sake of industrial decline. We see real numbers. Regrettably, the world’s markets are not conducive to our individual businesses. Now, under my orders, the Ministry of Economics is visiting a particular area. For example, this week, there was a visit to Kharkiv, where there are meetings with the directors of the largest businesses, and yesterday I met with the Ukrainian Employers' Federation, and together we are looking for the right solutions that, on the one hand, are not capable of creating corruption, on the other hand, to support our entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Ustinsky Alexander Yurievny, the political party "The Voice."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u91	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini, "The Voice"
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u92	Good afternoon! I have a question to ask the Prime Minister of Ukraine about one of the most successful reforms in Ukraine: health reform. As we know, since April 1, the most important stage of this reform must begin. And I would like to ask you, Mr. Alexia, about the personnel policy of the Ministry of Health. Because you can make whatever decisions you want, but they have to be implemented by people. On Wednesday, you resigned Oleg Petrenko, head of the National Health Service. Instead, we see that the Ministry has today captured the footage of the old Raisa Bogatyrov's team, such as Mr. Tolstanov, also a pharmaceutical business – Mr. Chumak, who here threatened us to reject "gods" directly in Parliament. Will these people today implement health reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. For us, medical reform next year is one of the priorities. Our government in the state budget, when it was set up and proposed to Parliament, made it clear that since April 1, we intend to change the secondary funding system, which is the basis for the continuation of medical reform. Last week, the Cabinet of Ministers approved all necessary regulations for this reform to take place. In terms of personnel policy. I am convinced that Mrs. Zorjan Skalecki’s Minister of Health has sufficient wisdom and professionalism to select a team on his own, because it is the person responsible for political reform who has the right to form a team. We ensure that people who have a corrupt past, a bad reputation, do not have any positions in government. Therefore, if you show me in the Ministry of Health in the official positions of people who are corrupt, we are ready to make human resources decisions. About Mr. Oleg Petrenko. Slavery is forbidden in Ukraine. The man wrote a statement of his own accord. What's more, he had a time, if it was an emotional decision, a review, an application to withdraw, it wasn't done. A person has made a conscious decision to stop working in the Ministry of Health system in this team. We do not need demoted people who do not believe in reform to increase the risk of implementing this complex reform. At the same time, I ask you to note that the entire NZU team is professional people who have been recruited, formed by Oleg himself, stayed and worked side by side for the reform to take place and the Ukrainians to feel its effect in the following year. Thank you for your attention to this reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u94	Rudik Kira Alexandrovna, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u95	I give the word to Galini Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u96	Vasilchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u97	Galina Vasilchenko, Voice faction, 118 constituency. My question will be to Minister Alona Babak, Minister of Community Development and Territory. Obviously, we support the reform of decentralization and transfer of resources, authority to places, particularly to the community. But in formulating forward-looking plans, we clearly stress that the government should take into account all the constructive proposals made by the communities. For example, in the territory of Lviv, these are proposals made by Sokołniki, Styrtsa, Obroshino. In particular, a decision was made yesterday at the session of the Lviv District Council with proposals to the government to take into account the wishes and voluntary unification of these communities. And the question is, what is the perspective?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u98	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u99	The question is whether the Ministry and the government will take into account, in particular, the decisions that have been taken to take forward-looking proposals into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Who Answers? Babak Alona Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, the government does not make decisions about the formation of united territorial communities. These decisions are taken by the district government authorities, which make proposals to the district councils, and actually this is what happened in the Lviv region. You yesterday, honourable members of the people, supported Bill 2189, and we thank you very much for this, where you removed the district councils from the process of approving the proposals on the way forward. But what happened in Lviv was already under way, and all the questions related to someone disagreed and so on, they had to be accepted at the district level with the participation of those communities that I understood were against such an association with the Lviv community. I think it's only after looking at the city's Sokol community initiative that you can look at. Regrettably, the government cannot do that. So I very much ask you to go through the local initiative again, gather enough votes from this community and immediately transfer this decision to the district administration for review. But this is a local initiative — a voluntary principle of unification. So, Your Honor, I'm going to speak to my colleagues again. But please mobilize the community's urban initiative to review this lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u102	Thank you. The "hours of questioning to the government" are over. I thank the Prime Minister, thank you to the honourable government. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to make inquiries. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u103	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We've received 241 requests. These are three questions from the people's deputies to the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is in the open name vote that supports the request of National Deputy Igor Guza to the President of Ukraine for a solution to urgent problems in the coal sector of the Volin region. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:21:04]] For-147 Regrettably, the request for a previous number of ballots was made. Next. Please pay attention to yourself and take up all your jobs. Colleagues, put forward a roll-call vote in support of the request of National Deputy Michael Cimbaluk to the President of Ukraine for the procedure for the payment of allowances for Ukrainian theatre staff and for the unwarranted release of actors. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:21:57]] For 237 There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:22:26]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote in support of the request of National Deputy Alexia Kovalova to the President of Ukraine for the proper investigation and investigation of criminal conduct. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote. [[11:23:04]] For 229 Thank you, colleagues. There is a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:28]] For 234
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u104	Request has been put to the vote. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to reading the rest of the questions from the national MPs. Veacheslava Rublov to the Minister for Community and Regional Development of Ukraine to provide information on the results of the evaluation of projects of the State Regional Development Fund in the Volin Region. Alexander Bakumova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the execution of court decisions regarding the recalculation and payment of pension payments to pensioners of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Mikoli Lušnjak to the head of the High Council of Justice on the provision of all legal aid, ensuring an objective review of the appeal of the resident of Ternopil to establish the justice of decisions while protecting the constitutional right to housing. Mikoli Lušnjak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of comprehensive legal assistance and an objective review of the request of the resident of Ternopil for the restoration of the constitutional right to housing. Oksana Savchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of the educational complex of the public education school No. 6 in the micro-district of the town of Ivano-Frankivsk in the social finance programme. Dmitry Nalotova to the executive duty of the head of the Poltava City Council to provide documents for the reconstruction of underground crossings in Poltava on the 33rd Street of the Assembly, as well as at the intersection of the streets of Europe and Shevchenka. Sergey Litvinenka to head the Ravenna District State Administration for the construction of external power lines for electricity supply in the village of Odrinka in the streets: Zaraczna, Lisova, Poliska, Baryakova, Tkakov’s horn, Shortka, Korostska Rural Council of the Rhine region. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information on the non-admission of illegal subscription payments to disabled persons I and II groups for electrical services. Marina Bardinau to the Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the restoration of the house at the address: Kiev, Pirogova Street, 2 as a result of the fire. Natalia Pippa to the deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the production and approval of technical documentation by the Gorich's Guy Park in Lviv. Galina Yanchenko, head of the National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes concerning the Possible Illegal Seizure of Lands in the Odessa Region, which belonged to the international company Auchan. Natalia Pippa to the Lviv City Head for the establishment and approval of the clear boundaries of St. John Paul II’s park in Lviv. Vladimir Gevak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on personal control over the investigation of criminal conduct No.420170000001976 from 20 June 2017. Dmitry Supérieure to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper implementation of procedural guidance in the criminal conduct of the staff of the Kyiv-Svétoshin Regional Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region. Dmitry Schenzev to the executive responsibility of the head of the Shareholders Association for the purpose of clarifying the arrival of the city's rent for the use of nadrama. Dmitry Schenzev to the head of the board of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine regarding the non-closure of the AT "Savedbink" branch in the village of Malinovka of the Chuguyiv region of Kharkiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Sternichuka, Rublova and others) A total of 28 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the "ministerial experiment" in 2020. Anna Wheeler to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Kharkiv City Head, on the provision of information on the budget costs foreseen and spent on the work of the branch of the cultural park and the rest of the Youth Council of Kharkiv. Anna Wheeler to the head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine on providing information on the State Customs Action Plan for the implementation of the provisions of the SOT Trade Facilitation Agreement. Sergey of Sweden to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on criminal conduct in the area of illegal logging in the villages of the Žitomir Region. Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Public Development and the Areas of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, the State Audit Service of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration, the City Council of Odessa in the area of dealing with the urgent social issues of the inhabitants of Tatarbular, Kili and Bilgograd-Dnistrov region. Mr. Mikhail Kryachka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the Investigation of Crimes committed by the Ukrainian National Deputy Alexander Ponomarov. Michael Kryachka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of offences committed by the former head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration. Ivan Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health Insurance, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of effective measures to ensure funding for educational and health institutions. Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the State Bureau of Investigation, the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of improper and long-term criminal investigation. Aleksa Arsenyuk to the Cherkasian City Head to check for city conditions and develop engineering and social infrastructure on the streets of the Academy of Sciences of the Royal City of Cherkasa. Oleg Arsenyuk to the Department of Architecture and the construction of the Cerkas City Council on the implementation of the powers of the control body to verify compliance with urban conditions; and the development of engineering and social infrastructure in the streets of the Royal City of Cherkasa. Eugenia Shevchenka to the director of the Zaporozhymservis Municipal Council of Zaporozhye Town Council for the submission of documents for the transfer of House No.25 on the central boulevard, the city of Zaporozhye, from the municipal company Zaporizemservis to a limited-liability company, the Management Company Hope. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the interim head of the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Energy Conservation of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities to check the validity of the increase in heat tariffs for the needs of the population and to take measures to reduce their territorial community of the city of Mirgorod. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase funding for the subproject "Implementing the Innovation Model of the Hypertonia System in the Poltava Region". Maxima Berezin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the repair of roads in the Poltav region. Antonina Slavicka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect and develop Ukrainian printed information space. Antonini Slavický to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of introducing changes in the education system, as foreseen by the draft command "On the approval of the Regulations on the Order of Accounting, the Interruption of Education, the Renewal and the Transfer of Persons Learning in Higher Education Institutions, and the granting of them academic leave. Michael Laby to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the number of vehicles of a specialized and special purpose imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as humanitarian aid to the authorities of Ukraine's local self-government, which have undergone customs clearance in accordance with established legislation. Alexander Horobac to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine for the improper performance of duties by the management and co-workers of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine and its territorial authorities. Alexander Sparrow to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of measures aimed at bringing the perpetrators to justice and eliminating the consequences of the offences. Solomonia Bobrowski to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the implementation of State financial control over the activities of the Dermano-Ostria National Park. Solomonia Bobrowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Director of Derman-Ostrich National Park. Irina Freez to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the purpose of clarifying the question of the classification of combat losses. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of targeted funds for projects: “The construction of horizontal drainage”, “The reconstruction of the water supply system”, “The construction of a sports hall for the Mikolai educational complex “The foundation of general secondary education of the I-II degree – the preschool education facility” in the village of the Great Lepetich of the Herson region. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the absence of a heating system in the Novorontsov Public Education School No. 2. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for a fair increase in pensions for women. Victoria Kinsburg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the under-satisfaction of wage payments at the Kharkiv Heat Network utility in recent years and possible ways to address this situation. Alexander Kunicki to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the conduct of a service inspection of officials of law enforcement authorities on the grounds of their inaction and the obstacles to the management of business activities by entrepreneurs in the area of trading venues near the station of Akademic Barabasov, Kharkova, and officials of the public shareholders association "Concern AVEK and Ko" on the establishment of facts of criminal offences committed in relation to entrepreneurs who carry out their business activities in the area of trading venues located near the station of Akademic Barabasova, Kharkova. Alexander Kunickýk to the Kyiv City State Administration to ensure the proper operation of the Shulyava transport route. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Pavlánka, and others) Only 6 deputies) to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from human rights regarding the use of measures for the protection and protection of the rights of minors of detained shareholders of the Ukreximbank Association. Ladies Bullach to the head of the Zaporozhye District Council on the implementation of the concept of public health and the activities of municipal nonprofit institutions in Zaporozhye region. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Gorvati and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the award of additional awards for 2020 to the Zacarpathian Government for the payment of employees in the discharge. Groups of National Deputies (Peterovka, Gorvati and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to change the status of roads and to include them in the list of roads of general use of state importance. Sergey Kuzminy to the head of the Provincial District Administration for information regarding the reconstruction of the reception ward of the district clinic. Michael Bondar to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine for providing former employees of the Global Business Department of the Polaron State Production Association with the necessary information on the collection of wages. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the funds of the medical subsidy for KNP "Radehova Central District Hospital" and KNP "Lopatina District Hospital" in the Radehov region of Lviv. Alexander Danuci to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the provision of the Kropivnitsky City Department for State Registration of Civil Status Acts in a renovated building on the street of Dvortsov, 6/7, which is conveniently located on the ground, has a convenient access and parking area. Groups of National Deputies (Saladuhy, Belenuka and others - only 6 deputies) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice for the lifting of Joint Order No.5232/1746 of 27 December 2017 on the approval of the Regulations on the provision of physical health and sports, the establishment of physical culture and sports, the Ministry of Health and the development of a new "Memolodysport and MoH" and the development of a new "Mediculation of physical health and sporting measures". Maria Ionova and Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the extension of the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No. 708 from 5 August 2019 to members of the military and civil administrations. The Sofias of the Federation to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, on the supply of raw material for metallurgical production in Ukraine's temporarily uncontrollable territory. The Sofias of the Federation to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Broadcasting, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Communications and Information, the Ukrainian Security Service for the Low Level Coverage of Ukrainian Radiostations and the Television of Ukraine’s Controlling Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region. Groups of National Deputies (Dirdina, Copetina and others – only 8 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the order and extent of compensation for the purchase and installation of individual gas accounting devices for natural gas users (population). Groups of National Deputies (Dirdina, Copitin, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on legal grounds, on the order of accounting for the ratio of natural gas to standard conditions, and so on. Veacheslava Rublov to the head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the need for repairing the roadways of the territorial importance of the Volin region. Valery Kolucha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the legality of State funding of foreign private companies by paying for access to English-speaking science bases Scopus and Web of Science. Eugenia Bragara to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration by officials of the State Enterprise of the Generator plant and the executive authorities of the request of a citizen of Yuri Ohrimac to provide copies of the archival documents relating to the applicant's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u105	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Request time is up. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, the list of issues proposed for consideration today is given to you. I understand that we will not all go through, but there are a few important issues that the Supreme Council of Ukraine needs to consider, as I think, that I am confident that most of our colleagues will agree with me. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I've been approached by a group of national deputies with a proposal not to take a break from 12 to 12:30 because we're spending the south. I understand that maybe we're not spending the formulation very well, but we're talking about government issues, and then we're going to make inquiries, but actually we haven't done our professional work to the end of the day. I suggest we cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. Thank you for your support, I hope. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and let us go to the vote for the offer that has just been made. Please prepare for the vote. We need to vote on this proposal or. Yeah, yeah, okay. No, let's vote so there's no questions later. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the motion to cancel the recess at the morning plenary meeting today from 12 to 12:30. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:42:18]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's get to the point. Show the factions, please. The "Serve of the People" faction – 204, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 19, "European Solidarity" – 1, "The Fatherland" – 7, "For the Future" – 9, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 14. Thank you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (Registration No. 2260). Reported to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on the organization of government, local self - government, regional development, and the construction of Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u106	Thank you. The President-in-chief, honourable national deputies, at the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development on 4 December, reviewed the comments and suggestions that came to prepare for the second reading of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine (Registration No. 2260), adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 November 2019 on the first reading on the basis. As a result of the committee’s work, a comparative table containing 302 amendments and proposals from 29 legal entities, of which 88 are included, 30 are partially taken into account, 50 are edited, and 134 are rejected. At the same time, in view of the comments made by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office for the second reading of the bill yesterday, December 5, the committee reviewed the individual provisions of the bill and prepared an additional comparative table containing 10 amendments and proposals, and this table was also given to you today. Thus, as a result of the Committee's re-examination, it was approved to reject previous amendments Nos. 27, 10, 172 and 287, to take fully into account amendment 168, 171 with the aim of avoiding a series of norms with the recently adopted Law on the Effectiveness of the Institutional Mechanism for the Prevention of Corruption and the Preparation of Changes in Anti-Monopoly Legislation. In addition, the committee took into account the amended editorial regulation 275, additional 36 prime 1, 284 prime. and partially accounted for 284 with a view to resolving individual issues of the conduct of the public service in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and eliminating internal disagreements in the text of the bill. In the light of the foregoing, the Committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine under registration number 2260 as a result of the second reading of the adoption of a second reading and in general. If a bill is adopted as a result of a second reading, and in general, we propose that a committee be appointed when preparing the relevant law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to undertake, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, its technical and legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u107	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Edit number 3, Knjazević. Don't insist. Amendment number 4. Seven, Knyazevich. Are you insisting? Ruslan Petrovich, please tell me, maybe we will. Can I step back and see the National MP?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u108	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! The thing is, where there are serious things like me, the fundamental character, I'm going to insist. Because this law is very unforgivable. It also complicates our problem by creating an additional table that somewhat, well, contradicts the table that is there. And now we're trying to understand its contents from two tables. So I'd ask where we're going to ask, at least that. If it continues to be purely technical, we will not insist. And where the language goes, where the principled things go, we insist. As for the first amendment, well, first of all, I thank the committee for changing the title of the bill. Because such a bill cannot be passed. Can you imagine a bill without a name? Just about making changes to the law, dot. Well, that's the point. My amendment relates to what the committee now proposes in writing, both in writing and in electronic form, in this part, but further down at the end of the law, it divides these forms and says that these are different forms. He continues to talk about how one should apply to another. So in this part, the law of change conflicts with other parts, including what was adopted tonight.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u109	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u110	So I'd like to request my permission to put it to a vote. But anyway, if it's not even supported, I'm asking the technical and legal committee to pay attention to that. You'll see it's going to be serious later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u111	It's number seven, right? Again. Three? Okay. I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the People's Deputy Knazević. Please identify and vote. The committee didn't support her. [[11:47:34]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. But I'm going to the committee to look at the possibility of technical law and then work on it. Thank you. Amendment number 7, Knjazević. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u112	I'm not asking you to put it to a vote. I thank the committee for correcting a series of unconstitutional matters, including the appointment of the head of the Security Service. But again, I'm asking you to keep looking at the text, because some things about the Antimonopoly, the Security Service have been corrected and some things haven't been corrected. And this, frankly, is what happens throughout the body of the law. Be very careful when you work on this law so that it does not get ugly when we have standards that are contrary to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u113	Don't insist. Thank you. 10 lashes, Puziyczuk. Don't insist. 11th, Cimbaluk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u114	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I want to thank the head of the committee for the fact that some of the fundamental rights are included. This applies to the appointment and authority of the head of the Security Service, the head of the Security Service and the head of the district administrations, but in another text it is almost identical, so I do not insist on voting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u115	Mikhail Mikhailovich, will you insist on your work in the future? Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u116	I'll do some. I'll tell you then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u117	Maybe you'll give me the numbers. I'll just give you my word after that. Thank you. 16th, Knazevitch. 17th, Knazevitch. 20th, Yvchenko. 22nd, Yvchenko. Doesn't Yvchenko insist? Thank you. 23rd, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u118	I insist on voting. But I'm paying attention, this is the same unconstitutional norm that is partially corrected here and then not corrected on the body again. Just so I don't pay any further attention to the other revisions, I'm paying attention right now and I'm asking the committee to fix it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u119	I will, with your permission, contact the committee and the administrations to then consider these within the scope of technical law. Can I not give you a word about the rights? Thank you. I can. Thank you. Cymbaluk, number 26. Mikhail Mikhailovich, tell us what adjustments you will insist on. Please turn on the Zimbaluku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u120	I'd like, Your Honor, to file an application for number 33 concerning the powers of head of the Antimonopoly Committee for appointment and dismissal. It applies to the Antimonopoly Committee and its managers, the headmaster of the apparatus for headship. Please place it on confirmation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u121	The position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u122	Everything about the Antimonopoly Committee, we are the agreed position between the Committee, it seems, from economic policy, yes, or Buymester Ludmila, and the Antimonopoly Committee. They are now writing their Antimonopoly Committee Act, which is large and systemic. They asked us not to regulate our law right now, because they will take it into account in their law. And the authority regarding the public service as well. So there was a proposal that everything about the Antimonopoly Committee should be governed by a separate legislation that would now be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u123	Is that what you're insisting on? Thank you. And you don't insist on the papers either, Mikhail Mikhailovich? And if you don't mind, give me some paper. I'll just give you a word from those lines. Isn't Cornia insisting on her work? Lozinski, 39 revisions. Aren't you going to insist on law enforcement? Princess, 40 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u124	Knazevitch, 41st. Oh, I'm sorry, Knyazevich, 40 tickets, I'm sorry. Krassilian, 43rd. Batenko, 57th. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u125	I can see it now. Edited. Are you insisting? Forty-six axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u126	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'm going to insist on very few amendments, but I'm going to ask you to give me my word. I want to explain in this box because there were a lot of questions about this amendment and this chapter. I will not insist on voting on this amendment, I want to explain that the committee has decided. I really thank the committee for making the right decision. See, we're translating the entire form into electronic form, so we're actually doing electronic document processing and we're talking about what will be considered a written form now and an electronic form using the so-called electronic signature. But this does not apply to citizens’ requests for public information to public authorities or to national MPs. And that's exactly what I did, and it's taken into account editorially, and the following revisions also regulate it. So I want the Ukrainians to hear us first of all. The appeal of citizens to national MPs, to public authorities, they will not necessarily be made using electronic signatures, they can be made by e - mail, as usual, simply by common signature, from whom it is addressed by e - mail. So that's exactly what you've taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u127	Everything? Thank you. Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u128	Thanks, guys. So this amendment we've taken into account editorially in order to remove the need for an electronic digital signature to turn citizens to public authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the 57th, Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u130	Dmitri Alexanderovich, give me two minutes so I don't take a word and generalize the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u131	Give me two minutes, Father, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u132	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich! Dear reporter, Mr. Alexander! First of all, I want to thank you for the many positive points that are included in this bill. But there are a number of our objections and observations to this bill that have been ignored. First of all, I want to say that this is the case where, before the second reading, the substance of the bill's body is substantially changed, which we saw in the first reading. And we also see that in many of the articles that are literally given to us today, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, we've seen, in fact, that the country in the smartphone has moved forward and people are staying behind. I speak in the case of citizens. First of all, we see that citizens' calls are not registered unless the cell phone number is given. I understand that all of us are present in iPhones and not only, but our Ukrainian citizens can't afford it. But there are strong calls from citizens, and they may not register. The director’s responsibility for dealing with citizens’ appeals also falls. Because citizens’ appeals can be considered, not by leaders, but only by authorized individuals. Friends, speaking of "country in smartphones," we're going to video conferences of government meetings, I can still understand that. But when the government's decision is taken through a simple survey, we lose the notion of a collegiate body of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I don't think you can let that happen. We also see and I want Mr. Alexander to comment that in this bill, in the body of the bill, we see such a novelty if an e-declaration is delayed for the entire patronage service for a year. Including for the President's Office, are we putting that off? My friends, we are, in fact, making this bill worse at many times for the protection of civil servants, and in a number of provisions of this bill, they are not in conformity with constitutional law, the rule of law, they are not cleared to the end, they are far from clean.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u133	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u134	In view of these circumstances, our parliamentary group will abstain from voting in the final version of the second reading. We're going to insist on getting him back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u135	Thank you. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u136	As for the mobile phone, I think even now, even those who don't know how to use it have a mobile number, that is, any grandmother, grandparents, and so on. As for the declaration. We're only performing the patronage service, which includes the National MPs' assistants, the consulting assistants. We had a problem with that. The office of the President is declared in full scope and management of the Office, in particular. As for the modern form of the Kabmin meeting. There is a situation that may occur in special cases, in some emergency situations, and so forth. So when we have to make a decision about Kabmin, for example, we have a flood on Zakarpatta, part of the ministers there, part of Kiev, not to be gathered, we can have the Skype of this conference and so on. As far as guarantees are concerned, government officials are concerned. In principle, most of the clauses that might be considered to be dangerous to civil servants refer to category "A" of the so-called category, which refers to 150 people who, according to the union itself, as we learned from the committee, are not active members of the trade union at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u137	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Amendment number 59. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u138	Mr. Head, if you please, 59th and 65th, because they are essentially the same. What are we talking about? It's about unique cases where the head of the government or the local government is referred to by the heroes of the Soviet Union as a socialist work, and I would ask the committee to take Hero of Ukraine into account. And we're refusing the possibility that the head of the self-government would personally accept such people? Such people in the self - government body are one, or perhaps not at all. And these people get the last benefit, have direct contact, and we want to take them back. On the contrary, you have to add a hero to Ukraine here and leave this norm, it'll be human at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u139	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u140	As far as I know, in another law in terms of references, the Hero of Ukraine is likened to the Hero of the Soviet Union, a socialist work, that is, it works. Yeah, and there's already a comparison of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u141	Let's technically try to count it then. So it's not the principle of some story, it's. Let's support the vote then, this is not a principled story completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u142	Colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. No. 59 of the National Deputies of Batenka, Lozinski, Knazevitch. The committee doesn't take them into account before, but the state of the matter in the committee room doesn't deny it, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u143	Yeah, this is 59, 65.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u144	Wait, I can't put two edits, you know that. There is a proposal from the National Deputies to support this amendment 59. Ready to vote? Please vote and vote. [[12:00:39]] For 313 Decision taken. Edit included
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u145	And 65th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u146	What else did you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u147	65.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u148	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u149	This is similar, just in another article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u150	Please take a closer look at the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u151	Yeah, that's the same thing, it was just about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u152	Do we have to vote then?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u153	It's in another article, there in one, we've just voted, it's complaints, it's two different forms of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u154	Okay. So you don't mind, either?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u155	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the number 65 of Batenka’s national deputies, Lozinski, Knazević was not included in the committee’s consideration of the bill, but there is a proposal to support it in the hall. Please support and vote. [[12:01:45]] For 310 Decision taken. Edit number 65 counted. Maybe you won't insist on the rest. Okay. Thank you. 75 lashes, Minko. Two minutes of Tsimbaluku, and you don't insist on editing. Two minutes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u157	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter, Honorable Fellows! Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. In fact, from the very beginning, we thank the authors: the Alona Shkrum faction colleagues, today's rapporteur, Mr. Kornyenka, and all those authors who have taken such legislative initiative in changing legislation. But for the second reading, we understand that we really need to prepare new bills, especially the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which will meet today's realities and the requirements that the government needs to deal with today. Next. We need to prepare a new Law on Central Executive Authorities, because we see, for example, the Ministry of Economics today takes over both agriculture and agriculture, and work, depriving the Minsocpolitics of those powers, which is why we need to prepare this bill immediately. When we talk about changes and additions, we've seen that the committee's sessions have resulted in standards that in general bring about so-called changes. And my amendments applied, by the way, positively to Mr. Knazevitch's support room, because they were almost identical, but we have to create conditions for local authorities of state executive power and local self-government to respect the acceptance of citizens. This bill, unfortunately, dishonors people's respect for power. Because when certain categories of citizens have earned their jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u158	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u159	that even if they were to be heard and put under control, the consideration of this matter shall be inexorable from what they may receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u160	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Ruslan. 73 clearance for confirmation. Princeovich, one minute. And please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u161	Mr. Head, I'm not willing to bet on confirmation if a representative of the committee can explain it to me. That's the whole point of this bill, so there's two forms of conversion and answers -- it's written and it's electronic. And here comes the right hand, which says there can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u162	He's ready to answer now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u163	Other alternatives, why should the law be written if all the law is null and void? If there's an answer, I'm ready to take it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u164	Now, maybe you've heard that, too, there's this idea of establishing a government call center, but that it's not just working as a telephone node that takes these calls, but that it's a formal call when a person on the phone calls, there's now no way to make it official. And then it's about chat boots, because a lot of people are already using different messaging machines -- the Telegram there, the Facebook there, and so on -- that's a completely normal story, the ways of communication are going to increase. The point here is that if there's a new way of communicating, we don't have to adopt the law, and the government can sort it out, well, it's a normal story absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u165	We can't bet, right? Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich, are you all right? Thank you. 75th, Minko. Don't insist. Which one will you insist on, Knyazevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u166	81st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u167	81st, Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Golovo, I and a representative of the committee, having discussed the matter beforehand, agreed that the Secretary of the PNB has no authority under the Constitution. And to predict that he is exercising the powers provided for in the Constitution legally would be contrary to the Constitution. I ask in technical law that you withdraw the reference to the Constitution. This will then be in line with the Constitution itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u169	I think you can count on that. Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich? Royal, two minutes. And after that, they take off their changes. Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u170	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. It's a very important bill, but unfortunately there's a lot of conflicting rules. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" does not support it for second reading. But we want to emphasize our main work. These include changes to pension reform, the criminal pension reform of Groisman, when people who have worked their entire lives in the civil service have been deprived of their guaranteed pension. People who worked their entire lives in local self - government have been deprived of their legal pension. People who worked their entire lives as scientists have been deprived of their legal pension. People who have spent their lives working with journalists from the state or public media have been deprived of their pensions. Dear colleagues, this anti-constitutional norm was adopted by the reform of Groisman. And we've won dozens of courts since 2017. These are thousands of people who have worked with you for the rest of their lives, and they are now subject to a discriminatory norm not to a pension indexation. And we're asking the committee to prepare a joint bill separately and to consider it urgently so that we can get those anti-constitutional rules of the Dusty-Groysman regime cleaned up, removed from Ukrainian legislation and gave our pensioners social protection guarantees. And those who were deprived of their rights in general were granted the right to an indexation. And also from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" I want to welcome with the Local Self-Government Day all the people who perform the function of the State throughout our country today. With a holiday! And we're committed to accepting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u171	Thank you, Your Honor. 30 seconds, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u172	Yeah, just so there's no later insinuation that we're against, there, fair pensions and so on. This whole story, it's not supported by calculations at all, so Minfin and I couldn't figure out what the numbers are here. There are categories like former media journalists and so on, well, this could all come up at a very serious cost. So let's do the math and then we'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevich, would you please give me information on the orders you will insist on? Or will we still be united so that we do not waste time? Important laws today, and ohmatdit is. Please turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u174	The point is, Mr. Head, there are a number of things I want to put on confirmation. They're more important to me than anything else. We're with a representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u175	Let's end up with confirmation. You tell me what you're insisting on, what you're doing. Then we'll end up on confirmation and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u176	It's your turn. Well, I've got 141, 143 so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u177	141 will be confirmed. More?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u178	143rd, 157th, 158th, 161st, 162nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u179	The 151st? Can't you come if it's okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u180	Let me write them all out and give them to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u181	Yes, thank you. Aren't you going to make your adjustments? Then give information that you insist on. Lozinski does not insist on his writings. Minko, 95th. Knyazevich, 96th. Krasnosilski, 105th. There's no mint in the hall? Babi, 115th. Don't insist. You're breaking up. Don't insist. 121st, Krasnosilski. Redsoil won't, will it, insist? 130th, Knyazevich. Don't insist. Lopushinski, 136th. Don't insist. 141th. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u182	Yes, there's a proposal for confirmation. Let's put it on confirmation. Yeah, let's put 141 on confirmation, they caused social resonance in the hall. I think as the author of the amendment, let's try to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u183	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Edit 141, National Deputy of Cornienne. It was considered by the committee, but the author does not insist on taking it into account. Therefore, there is a proposal for voting, voting, and determining. Please vote. [[12:12:46]] For-22. Sadly, the correction was rejected, Alexander Sergiyovich. 149th, Minko. We'll end up putting everyone on the stand. 149th, Minko. It'll be faster if you give me a list. 150th, Knyazevich. 153rd, Knazevitch. Next? I can't hear you, Ruslan. 173rd, Puziychuk. Don't insist. Ustinova, 179th. Don't insist. Thank you. 185th, Knazevitch. Don't insist. Alana Ivanovna Skrum, please tell me 157th and 161st, is that what you wanted to confirm? Okay. 213, Schkrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u184	Colleagues, Mr. Head, it's 157th or 114th, or 214th, after which you give me your word, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u185	I'll give you 213. 157th, 161st, I understand that you're putting them on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u186	Look, after 157, I'm not going to demand a vote. I want to explain again what 157 revisions are. Look, 157-way seats in the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to hold the Cabinet of Ministers in video conference mode, right? And I just want to explain to the Ukrainian citizens that it is proposed that the Prime Minister himself be able to determine that some minister is not going to be at the Cabinet of Ministers, but will be included on Skype, on Telegram, on videoconference, on other media access. Well, first of all, it seems to me that such changes should be made to a separate Cabinet Act and the Central Executive Authority. And we have to have a strategy how Kabmin wants to work. Secondly, I'm not sure that's right in terms of state secrets, protecting information. How will this be ensured? Thirdly, "Cubmin in smartphone," I don't think that's the responsibility that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u187	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u188	I don't think "Kabmin in smartphones" corresponds to the levels of threat and responsibility in a warring country that citizens are expecting today. But I won't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u189	Thank you. Alana Ivanovna, will you still insist on your work? I'm sorry. 114th. Is that you for confirmation or what? 214th, I'm sorry. For confirmation. Dunda, 222. Knazevitch, 219th. Please turn on the Knyazevich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u190	Mr. Head, I'm going to take my papers off in exchange for you finally giving me the opportunity to confirm that I've got 5 or 6 of them there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u191	Okay. So I'm not going back to your right now, and at the end of the day, we're going to put a couple of rights to confirm, I get it? Thank you. I suggest we return to the House of Commons, because we will soon proceed to the vote, as far as I understand. Who else among the national deputies insists on law enforcement? Lozinski and Shkrum. Schrummy, what are the adjustments? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u192	Colleagues, I'd like to ask for confirmation. I'd like to take my 271 and give me my word for amendment 214. And so far, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u193	271. I'm giving you the opportunity to speak on it. 214th prim for confirmation, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u194	Thank you. Please give me your word. But the other way around is 214, give my word, 271, I'd like to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u195	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u196	Colleagues, 214. Over. Well, first of all, I'm really grateful to the committee and the subcommittee for working together. A lot of things we've taken into account, and we've corrected, and we've reached consensus and agreement, and we've cleared up those dangerous changes that were left in the bill. So in principle, I think that the text has improved significantly to the second reading. But some of the repairs do give me a warning. For example, the amendment is 214 prime. She's talking about the so-called High Commission of the State Service Corps, and she's saying that a member of the commission's commission's mandate is independent of any illegal pressure, interference, not obliged to give a statement about the reasons for the decisions taken by the commission, and the substance of the matters that he has become aware of in connection with the exercise of authority. Colleagues, you see, the independence of the members of the commission should be ensured by the appointment of independent persons who are respectful in society. Not by what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u197	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u198	It's not that they're provided with any responsibility in the court of law about their points they're putting in. I think the commission needs a lot of reformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u199	Thank you. I can't hear you, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u200	I can't hear you. I'm sorry. Lozinski, on which side do you insist? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u201	Dear Mr. Head, I have from 220 to 273 rights about 15 of our rights. I'm asking you to give three minutes during the 264th review to unify them, to express your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u202	I'll give you three minutes. And without a vote, do I get it right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u203	In the end. And now we're going to hand over some more changes that we're going to put in there for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u204	Okay. Come on. Three minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u205	Not now. Then. In the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u206	Who else insists on what they do? Well, then it's over. The national MP of Lozinski. Please turn on the microphone. And then there'll be confirmation papers. I'm waiting for a letter from. If possible, pass it on in paper so I don't miss anything. Please turn on your password for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u207	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, despite a number of positive changes made by this bill, amendments to many laws governing the work and the executive central authorities and anti-corruption bodies that have been taken into account. Even though it's one of the model bills that we've passed, where many important moments we've been able to hear and consider before the last day, we have a very big warning about those norms that regulate the specific work of the Cabinet of Ministers, and specifically their interaction with the central executive authorities. These amendments, which we are about to submit for confirmation, should be regulated by a separate law on the Cabinet of Ministers and a separate law on central executives. Only when we see all the logic and all the ideologies of work and the interaction of the central executives will we be able to properly evaluate it, to remove a number of issues that we now have that seem to be threatening to us, and then, with a clear conscience, to support such changes. At the moment, a number of things that regulate and change the work of the central executive authorities and their interaction in Kabmin, too. When ministers and specific ministries take up a number of powers and a number of ways to determine their strategy, they are directed to the central secretariat of the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, it turns out that two people are going to define this as the Prime Minister and this is the Minister of the Cabinet. A number of powers and opportunities are being removed from ministers and ministries. In our view, this poses a threat, especially when we accept point changes. These things need to be regulated by a separate Cabinet of Ministers Act, a separate Law on Central Executive Authorities. And I want to emphasize to all my colleagues who may not have been avoiding it. That these changes that are being made in the Cabinet of Ministers are, in fact, only possible in terms of majority. When there is no need for interfractional dialogue and understanding in Parliament, in a coalition government. Only in this case will the Minister and Prime Minister and the Minister of the Cabinet be able to make a single decision, on the condition of a majority. If we have a coalition government tomorrow, then there will be chaos, and essentially the ministry's work will be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u208	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have eleven rights that are proposed for confirmation. Please prepare for the vote. Amendment No. 43 of the Kornienka People's Deputies. Do you insist on your right hand, Alexander Sergiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u209	What's the 43rd?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u210	143rd
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u211	143rd? Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u212	Knazevitch. Or we can be explained in all manner of ways.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u213	I can, it'll be a long time, I just wanted to take turns. Here's the thing if he can explain to the committee representative. It is predicted that there are cases where the authority of the Ministry Secretariat will be exercised by another ministry or other central executive authority. I don't even know what that is. Can you tell me what this is? Do you have any idea what this could lead to?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u214	Once again, there's this reform, it's being developed, it's being proposed to centralize some of the functions that are shared in many ministries and bring them out. This is about the authorization of the Ministry Secretariat, for example, for accounting, for example, for lawyers. It's about creating a single body for all ministries, such an outsource that there aren't many accountants in every ministry, but there were fewer accountants in one ministry, the Ministry of the Cabinet of Ministers, who will serve many ministries. And it's widely written so that it can be done between different ministries. It's a normal business reform, I think the government has already waited for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u215	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, are you insisting on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u216	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote to 143 people's deputies of Kornienka, it's taken into account by the committee, the author insists on it. Please prepare for the vote. Edit is confirmed, I repeat. Prepare for the vote, please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:25:41]] For 241 Edited. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 218, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 1, "Fathership" - 1, "For the Future" - 8, "Voice" - 0, "non-fractional" - 13. Thank you. 144 requisitions. It's based on Cornian's permission, the author insists it was counted by the committee. Do I get it right? Can I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote of 144. Please support and vote. [[12:26:30]] For 246 Edit included. 246, I'm sorry. The amendment of 145 of the Kornienka People’s Deputy is also taken into account by the committee. It is proposed to be put on the stand. Please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote of 145. Please support and vote. [[12:27:01]] For 246 Decision taken. Edit is counted, is counted. Edit 147 Cornish, edited. The author insists on her? He insists. I'm betting on a vote of 147, People's Deputy Korneyenka, please support and vote. I'm betting on confirmation, please support and vote. 147th. [[12:27:38]] For the 250. Decision taken. Edited as proposed by the committee. Edit 148 People’s Deputies of Kornienka She was taken into account by the committee, and the committee insisted on her. Sorry, the author insists. Please support and vote. [[12:28:12]] For the 250. 148 requisitions included, 250 in favour. 157 of Cornienne's right. Yes, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u218	Alona Shkrum was already trying to explain. Friends, we introduce the concept of holding a meeting as a video conference of the Cabinet of Ministers. Right now, if we don't have a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, we have his deputy, but he doesn't have the right to vote. He is simply present and provides information to his leadership, and Kabin is working in that quorum that is present as a fact. Now we have videos and video conferences and they're going to participate and vote. God knows where. Let's do for the Supreme Council, for any national collective body, for the committees. Guys, this is how we're going to lead to absurdity, and we're going to destroy this concept in general. I'm asking you not to let it happen. It's not possible to hold them at all after the cabinet meeting was closed. The cabinet will be held in the Prime Minister's office in the video connection. It's an unacceptable thing, there's no such thing anywhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u219	The author of the amendment and the representative of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u220	Let's ignore the modern-day achievements of civilization, because they are making it difficult for us to live properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u221	No, there's no video conference here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u222	Then make such a law. Bring it in. Make some changes to the Rules, and we'll support the "scape" for the MPs. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u223	Alexander Sergiyovich, are you insisting on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u224	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u225	No, there will be no remote voting. We're not the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear colleagues, I am voting for the order of 157 People’s Deputies of Kornienka. She was counted by the committee. The author insists. Please support and vote. [[12:30:27]] For 221 Edit rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment 158. Let's move on. 158 root line is edited. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u226	I'm just for the transcript so we can understand what we're doing -- we're shutting down the Secretary of the Cabinet. So imagine, all of the secretariat's organs, all the units, all the people after that decision will be eliminated. A government body will be created to ensure the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and, in fact, to rewrite half of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in this law. Well, let's say I haven't seen a way to change legislation in a long time. Dear reporter, let's delete, let's make some changes that are complex for the Cabinet of Ministers Act, we prepare and weigh, we prepare all the adjustments correctly. And now killing this organ, and thousands of people tomorrow will be, super professionals, on the street, well, it's a crime in front of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u227	Alexander Sergiyovich, are you insisting on your right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u228	Yes, we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u229	158 revisions were taken into account by the committee, and the author insists. Please support and vote, 158 for confirmation, please support. [[12:32:09]] For 228 Decision taken. Edited as proposed by the committee. Let's see the factions. The next amendment is 161, Cornea. Considered by the committee. 161. Yes, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u230	Well, after we made our decision on video, I'd like to ask you to make another decision. It is predicted that the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers will not be adopted in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, silence in the hall, because you have not heard from a colleague, please. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u232	Not by making a decision at the Kabmin meeting, but by interviewing, by interviewing. A draft act is sent out and every minister just sees it, puts it on a stick, it's all coming together and then in the end it's all considered an act of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, guys, come on, let's not get into this anymore. This practice was at Mikol Janovich’s, but it ended very quickly because a number of ministers then went to the law enforcement authorities and explained their signatures. Since these are collective decisions, let us not impose a minister or kill the Cabinet of Ministers as a collective body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u233	I'll give you the next right, Jaroslav Romanovich. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u234	We insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u235	The author insists on the right. 161 revisions, it was taken into account by the committee, the author insists on it. Please support and vote. [[12:34:17]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Edit 161 is out of the question. Edit 162, Cornienne. Edited. Let me do it. Tell me, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u236	Dear Mr. Head, thank you very much for your position, too. We're going after the amendment to the Law on the Cleaning of Power, we're going to get out of the Office of the President, we're going to write about the constantly functioning auxiliary organs. Permanently active, in general we have an organ that is constantly active, in the Constitution is the Council of National Security and Defence. We told the committee that any organ that is now, it's not always working. We had the Administration, now we have the Office, the President's decree tomorrow will be another. So please, if we have the Administration in the previous edition, it's okay if we write the Office now. If such an organ is no longer available, it will be changed in the future. We're going to make some changes, but there has to be a clear definition of the wording in this law. It's very clear matter and you don't have to hide people by definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u237	Alexander Sergiyovich, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u238	He's not getting anywhere. The President's orders are all settled, constantly auxiliary organs, now the President's Office is called. It's so that we don't change the law every time the President's Administration is renamed, because we have every President named. This tradition, all the previous presidents have also been renamed. No one gets out of a declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u239	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a vote to 162 people's deputies of Cornianka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u240	The head of the Anti-Corruption Committee says no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u241	I'll give you my word. One minute, for the sake of objectivity, I will give my word to the head of the Anticorruption Policy Committee. Okay? Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u242	Colleagues, terminology is brought into conformity by all laws, including the Anti-Corruption Act. This is similar to how we don't write in every law, "Ministry of Economics," but we write "central authority of executive power responsible for shaping and implementing policies in the economic sphere." All of it. I, with all due respect, just can't see the betrayal here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u243	It's a match.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, do I understand that no one is getting anywhere, everyone is staying where they should be?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u245	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u246	I'm betting on confirmation of the order of 162 People's Deputies of Korneyenka. Please support and vote. [[12:37:22]] For 282 Decision taken. The amendment is counted as proposed by the committee. Regulation 271. Let's see the factions. 271, national deputy Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u247	Colleagues, I may ask you to give me three minutes, please, I will no longer insist on any of my amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u248	No, that's how we agreed to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u249	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u250	No, it's not. No, no, no. Alana Ivanovna, this is manipulation, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u251	Okay. Then please give me time at least. Give me time first, please, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u252	I'm going to add 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u253	Thank you. Colleagues, look, this amendment refers to the fact that people can be released after the new Cabinet of Ministers when the new Cabinet of Ministers comes, politically without any basis, for four months, not six. This is the amendment we agreed on, and unfortunately, Kabmin has been at and, unfortunately, has been in power long enough, they haven't been able to release just 157 people who have the right to be released from category "A." So I ask you to consider this amendment. And then, colleagues, you and I have worked very hard on the law, but look at the fact that only the amendments that apply to the Kabmen and TKOV Act apply in the hall. It was my position on the committee that this law should be passed by a separate law and require the Kabmin to pass this law separately, not to turn the Supreme Council into an important bill now in terms of how it should work or whether it should not work for the Kabmin. We're expecting a Kabmin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u254	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u255	We expect the Cabinet's strategy for reforming the public service and the reform strategy of the Cabinet of Ministers. You don't have to make it into other laws, you put it in your law, you put the law in the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u256	Thank you. A representative of the committee is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u257	When these 170 people were released, it turns out that half of them are in the decree, sick, not here, not there, and they can't be found where they are at all to be released. Yeah, human rights, yeah, yeah, human rights. So it's time for Kabmin to continue the clearance of power that we started, and we're going to finish it, Alono Ivanovna, and you know it. And the competition commission that we defend in this law will also take out the honest new leaders of the central executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u258	Thank you. Are you insisting on this? The committee turned her down. Order of 271 People's Deputies Shkrum. The committee rejected her. Please identify and vote. [[12:40:04]] For 135 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. The last amendment that was submitted for confirmation. What about Sergei Volodymyrovich Vlasenko? Please turn on the Vlasenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u259	Mr. Head, I'd like to place 214 bearing 1 for confirmation. And if I have a minute, I'll explain why. In fact, it is proposed that the members of the commission from the higher body of the public service do not have to explain the reasons for the decisions taken by the commission, as well as the substance of the matters that have become known to them in connection with the performance of their duties. Guys, this is better than the MP's touch. He's being summoned to the D.A.'s office for committing a crime, and he says, "Yes, and I shouldn't, I may not be giving an explanation for my vote. So let's put that in for the MPs. By the way, I'd like to test every piece of legislation in Parliament. If colleagues are talking about remote voting, let's do it for Parliament if the majority of the people are already offering to do it for Kabmin. If polls offer to vote on laws, let the polls vote on laws. Let's do the polls. Because if it looks like schizophrenic in Parliament, why should it look different in Kabmin? And 214. 213.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u260	Dear colleagues, the author's position. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u261	Look, we have a commission, it takes out the officials. This commission conducts interviews in such general skills as leadership, communication there, and strategic thinking. Then they come to us, for example, from the film community, and they say, "Why didn't you ask them how to make a movie?" And we're the commission that asks about leadership, right? And then the representatives of the film community come to my house and start pushing me like a member of the commission. I agree here to formulate, perhaps, an explanation, a demonstration and so forth. But we must protect the ability of people to make decisions impartially.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u262	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. I'll bet you a vote on the approval number 214 prime. People's Deputy Korneyenka. She was counted by the committee. Please support and vote. [[12:42:47]] For 223 The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. 284 law, Knyazevitch. This is the last amendment, and then we're going to vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u263	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, may I have your attention? It's a very important readjustment. The point is that since January 1st, 20th, we have a salary size and other wages will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers for all categories of workers, except for those working in other branches of government or independent bodies. There's a whole list here. But the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, appeals courts, local courts, and national deputies of Ukraine have somehow fallen out of this list. Well, it's completely unacceptable for the judicial authority and the legislative size of the salary to be established by the executive authority. It's impossible, it's wrong in terms of the Constitution. I'm asking you to add these categories that are provided for in the Constitution, and then this rule will be correct, then it will cover all categories of independent and authorities, and independent branches of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u264	Thank you. Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u265	It's about machines in general, not about organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u266	And members of the CBC. It's editorially simple. In addition to the Supreme Council's apparatus, there's a list of devices. It's all about the machines, except for the C.V.C.K. Except for the C.V.K. That's editorially what we're going to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u267	Dear colleagues, let us not scream. I'll bet you vote 284. What's wrong? Don't you insist? Is that possible, Alexander Sergiyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u268	No, we'll just write the C.V.C.A. right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u269	That's right about CBC. Technically, this can be fixed. Say it like that, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u270	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u271	We'll count.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u272	What will you count? Tell us what you'll consider to make us understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u273	We'll take the members of the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u274	It's not out of voice. It's technical law. Okay, then we don't. Thank you, Ivana Orestovna. Could it be technical law or not? He can't. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, two won't report from one question. Dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirmation of what it is. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. What's wrong? Well, respectable colleagues. Wait a minute. While the heads of the factions are asking to invite the national deputies who have separated if they have separated, because I can see that the hall is almost complete. Now we're going to vote in favour of the law as a whole. After that, it's a question of funding OHMATDIT. Dear colleagues, the position of committee representatives, to leave in the order in which they are. I'm betting on the confirmation of the 284th National MP, Korneyenka. It's your turn, isn't it, Alexander Sergiyovich? Please support and vote. Wait. Take your seats, national deputies, please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:48:54]] For 229 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. Just like the committee suggested. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to voting for the law. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I hope there will be support in the hall. Because both the committee and the national deputies worked hard, and many rights were taken into account. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (registration No. 2260). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:49:51]] For 255 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Please show the factions. The "Serve of the People" party – 231, "Paternal" – 1, "For the Future" – 12, "non-factional" – 11. Other political forces are 0. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a bill amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian National Budget 2019 Act on the construction of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT (Registration No. 2505). Offered. We need support to include this issue in the agenda of the plenary. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:56]] For 337 Six, held up. And please show me the factions. Okay. Define the bill as urgent and shorten the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills in accordance with article 50 of Part Three. Please support and vote. It's funding a children's hospital, respected colleagues. No, I do. No, no, we'll go through the procedure and we can vote right now. Please support and vote. [[12:51:44]] For 350. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[12:52:07]] For 352 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there was an offer, I understand, from almost all political forces, to vote without discussion. Ready? I'll bet you a vote. Irina Volodymyrna, come on, what do you always say? All for it, it's a children's hospital. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis, and the committee recommends and in general, the next vote will be put to the vote. On the basis of the draft Act on Amendments to Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine 2019 on the Construction of the Medical and Diagnostic Complex of the National Children's Hospital OHMATDIT (Registration No. 2505). Please support and vote. [[12:53:09]] For 353 He's holding on to one. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the National Budget for Ukraine for 2019 on the construction of the National Children's Hospital specialization complex OHMATDIT (Registration No. 2505). Please support and vote. [[12:53:48]] For three hundred Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 30, "European Solidarity" – 24, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 13, "Voice" – 17, "non-factional" – 24. Thanks again. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds Received by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction (registration number 2179). Reports a member of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u275	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Income from legalization. Someone's listening, isn't it? Revenues from illegal activities obtained in Ukraine may move from Ukraine via offshore to the bank of London as soon as I finish my talk. Millions of dollars travel thousands of miles in 50 milliseconds, rapid changes and globalization of the economy provide broad opportunities for criminals who generate significant flows of income obtained by crime, some of which are of Ukrainian origin. The total amount of funds in suspicious financial transactions taken into account by the holdingfinmonitoring for 15 years amounted to 58 trillion dollars in equivalent. Laundering technologies are getting better every time, and our job is to keep moving forward from the protagonists. The new Law on Combating Legalization (Laundering) of Income gives us that chance. The bill proposed for your consideration is called upon to adapt national legislation to the current FATF recommendation and the position of the fourth EU Directive. This directive has already been introduced in all EU member countries and is mandatory for countries that intend to join the EU. The bill sets out new and more effective approaches to financial monitoring that will simplify the reporting process, including by increasing the threshold financial transactions from $150,000 to 400,000. The bill defined the position of applying a risk-oriented approach to reporting subjects, moving to case reporting on suspicious activities of its clients, and making use of the results of a proper test carried out by another subject. The bill establishes fair and proportionate sanctions for those entities involved in professional money - laundering, creating prerequisites for adequate crime prevention in all its manifestations. When we were working on the second reading, we first clarified the list of measures of influence that might be applied for the infringement; we introduced a measure of influence such as a treaty to address the consequences of the commission of law-enforcement in the field of prevention and opposition; and thirdly, we introduced a rule under which no more than one sanction could be applied for one infringement. We've cut the maximum fine twice or more. In total, more than 1,000 300 lines were given, of which 500 were approved and confirmed. Please pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u276	Yes, Vlasenko from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u277	Thank you, Mr. Head. With all due respect to all the colleagues in our session room, this law is mutual, and it has a huge number of rights. So why don't we consider canceling today, Mr. Head? And we're going to be looking at this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u278	I am very grateful for this offer, Sergey Volodymyrovich, and I think that, like most national MPs, important laws need to be passed and less spoken. There's an offer. We should also speak, and we will do so during the consideration of this bill, but in fact. Dear colleagues, there's been an offer to cancel the Vizne today and to consider this bill from the first to the second. Is there no objection? From 13 to 14. Is there no objection? We'll finish the job at two, yeah. Ready? Then we continue without a vote. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. Then let's vote, there's no need for motive. Procedural decisions can, Nestor Ivanovich, you know it's no worse than I do when we go into question, we vote 150, and that's the same thing. No, it's not. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. No, look, there's an offer, we put it -- we supported -- well, we didn't support -- let's move on, it's gonna be "Virgin." Please prepare for the vote, invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Ready. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. There's not a 13th. [[12:59:54]] For 216
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u279	Dear colleagues, this is a procedural decision, we can vote as much as we want. [[Applause]] What's wrong? I welcome you, too. Good afternoon. Dear colleagues, are we gathered? The Society is asked to support this proposal once again. I'm betting on the vote, maybe someone didn't hear. Please. No, it's okay. You don't have to go back. It's a procedural decision. Dear colleagues, the vote is based on the above decision. There is a proposal to support and vote. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u280	Nestor Ivanovich, we are already in the process. [[13:00:55]] For 216
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u281	It didn't work. Helen Costinovna, maybe you can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u282	No, it's not. 216. Helen Constantine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u283	God loves a trinity, let's do it again. Let us once again listen to the presidency of the Supreme Council and vote in favour of this procedural decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u284	Dear colleagues, you. All right, what's the woman's story now, and you're yelling? Is that okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u285	The Vice Speaker will report. Let us once again hear the proposal of the Supreme Council Presidency and vote in favour of that decision. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I can see that. Yes, please prepare for the vote. Vote. Who's in favour, please support. [[13:02:14]] For 234
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u286	Thank you, Helen Constantine. 234 in favor, decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u287	Listen to the vice-speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u288	Today, we work without the Miscellaneous. Let's move on to the law. Amendment number one, Zablock. Don't insist. No. 4, Timoshenko. Don't insist. Bondarev. Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, number four.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u289	Now it's going to be 16 lines that apply to terminology. This is a very important piece of legislation that is not in line with international standards. And so those definitions that are in this law will provide an opportunity for very substantial abuses. The revision now refers to a clear definition that is the subject of financial monitoring. My suggestion is to take into account international documents, where this is clearly defined and to record by law the word "object", to replace the word "financial monitoring object". And this is done throughout the text of the law, because the word "object" can be interpreted in any way. So I'm asked to follow international terminology and support my amendment and the amendment of many other deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u290	I can talk, yeah. Dear Mr. Sobolev, with great respect to you, we have taken a close look at all these adjustments. I can tell you that you can't call it, you have to call it a customer because it's in the FATF recommendations in the Fourth Directive, and it's completely in line with the Fourth Directive. The object is an operation, so unfortunately we have to reject it. The client is an international terminology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u291	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? Are you insisting on your right? You insist. Vote number 4 of the Soboljeva People's Deputy. The committee rejected the amendment. Request to vote and determine. [[13:05:00]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Next line is number 5, National Deputy Bondarev. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next line is number 6, National MP Zablotsky. Don't insist. Next line is number seven, national deputy of the Yuzanin. I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u292	Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor for this amendment only in order to address the entire community right now. A few minutes ago, 254 nationalists voted in favour of complete feudalism and fortification, for dismissal without taking into account the Labour Code, following the initiative of the subject of the appointment of all civil servants. No government has allowed this to happen. I don't know how amazing it was for you to press the green button, it's non-fractional, it's a group for the future. I think you just threw tens of thousands of people out on the street, tens of thousands. Therefore, be vigilant when voting and supporting in general. Thank you. Please don't bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u293	Thank you. Next line is number 8, National Deputy Timoshenko. None. Amendment number 10, national MP Zablotsky. Who? Sobolev, huh? Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u294	Again, I call for compliance with all international standards. It's just a warning, "person" is still able to interpret it in any way. Please. As it is in all of our legislative acts and international legislative acts, "physical or legal person" so that there is no choice. It's a request to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u295	Sergey Vladislavovich, I'm just not interfering with the substance of this amendment, but 24 articles of the Civil Code defines a person as a physical, legal person. Well, that's it. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u296	This is a general recommendation. We're rejecting this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u297	Thank you. There's an offer from National Deputy Sobolev, number eight. There's a committee position to reject. I'm betting on the vote number eight. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:38]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next line 10, Zablotsky. Don't insist. Edit 11, Eugene. Don't insist. Edit 12, Bondarev. Don't insist. Number 13, Timoshenko, Sobolev. Don't insist. Number 14, Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, why is a terminological apparatus so important? Because this law does not really affect just those who directly engage in terrorism. The wording of this law is defined in such a way that any person who once had or had some kind of financial inconstant relationship with a person who is objectively or objectively suspected of promoting terrorism can also fall under it. Regrettably, the termite device is poorly written, terms that are either unspecified, or can be interpreted in two or three ways. Well, let's say there's the term "activities that are derived from assets" or "bank shell" or "regulated financial group" etc. At the same time, there are terms used in other laws. That's why there was an offer of a term that was already used in other laws, just to remove from this bill and refer to other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u299	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u300	Dear Mr. Vlasenko, as far as you know, all terminology in this law is fully in line with the fourth directive, the FATF recommendations, the UN Radbez recommendations, and all the other conventions that we are implementing here. So everything is in full conformity, we're rejecting your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u301	Thank you. Put it on. It's just about the vote number 14, People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee proposes to reject it. Request to vote and determine. [[13:09:50]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Next amendment 17, People's Deputy Getmantsev. Don't insist. Next line is number 18, National Deputy of the South. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u302	Dear colleagues and my colleagues who have just made comments on terminology! I don't know how it works, but on our committee, they don't listen and now they're saying banal things that match the terminology of a directive that doesn't have a translation, an official directive that we can't fully implement in Ukrainian legislation, and we're doing it with you right now. So I'm not going to make my own amendments for confirmation, because I've worked very hard to make sure that the committee understands that. If the committee doesn't understand it, I can't really explain it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u303	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. I mean, I get it. You don't put down the right hand, do you? Thank you. Next line is number 19, National Deputy Bondarev. None. Don't insist. Amendment 20, National Deputy Timoshenko, National Deputy Sobolev. Don't insist. Amendment number 21, National Deputy Vlasenko. Don't insist. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u304	I insist on everything I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u305	You just waved like that, and I realized you were through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u306	Thank you. I'm going to wave so you know what I'm saying. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm going back to my point of view, because my 21 revisions apply to the same global issue. I'll point it out again. Unfortunately, the law is formulated in such a way that it can apply to anyone, the wording is very careless. I want to remind everyone that jurisprudence is terminology. Regrettably, I agree with the previous statement that the terminology of international acts is not properly used, it is not consistent with the Ukrainian realities. And if we write that we want to do something about the property of third parties, let us at least write that if a person knew that the property was connected to terrorism. Not that any property can be frozen in further, confiscation and so on. This is absolutely unacceptable, it affects all Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u307	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u308	Dear Mr. Sergey, you narrow it down a lot in the 21st direction and you enter a concept of purpose. Let me remind you that we are implementing international standards in the area of anti-money-laundering and terrorist financing. Regrettably, the remedy is being rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u309	Thank you. It's number 21, People's Deputy Vlasenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:12:51]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Next item is 22 of the Zablotsky People's Deputy. National MP Zablotsky, will you insist on your actions at all? Not yet. Thank you. You will? Okay, then tell me when. The Yuzanin National MP refused. Is National Deputy Bondarev going to insist? It won't. National MP. The next is 25, National Deputy Timoshenko, National Deputy Sobolev. Please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u310	Colleagues, this is one of the most important terminological lines. Because in our legislation, namely the Banking and Banking Act, the concept of a shell bank does not correspond to the terminology of an international FATF. That's why we're asking you to complete this so that there's a clear reference to the terminology of FATF. Because it will be impossible to continue to hold those who abuse the law or violate the law directly accountable. Because our definition of the Banking and Banking Act is different. So there's no ambiguity of interpretation, and that's what we do. Ask her to vote and support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u311	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u312	Dear Mr. Sobolev, the bank shell has different interpretations in the Banks and Banking Act and in the Fourth Directive. Our terminology is completely consistent with the Fourth Directive, because the shell bank is not just a bank, it can be another financial institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u313	Thank you. Are you insisting on the vote, Sergei Vladislavovich? Vote number 25 of National MP Timoshenko and Soboljeva, Skrum, Labunski, Nemiri. The committee suggests that the amendment be rejected. Please vote and determine. [[13:14:50]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next item is the 26th People's Deputies of Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u314	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I'm asking the session room to turn to what the reporter just said. The reporter said the right thing. That the definition that they propose in this law is different from the definition that is the Banking and Banking Act. So the same legal term, the shell bank, is now proposed to interpret differently in various legislative acts. So once again, let's unify the definition. We can't create in a country of chaos, we can't create dozens of definitions of the same things, the same things, the same things, the same things, and so on. So it creates legal chaos. You can't let that happen. I would like to emphasize once again that jurisprudence is the exact science of terms, of terms, and that's why we're discussing terms. And I have a request not to balance Ukrainian legislation, creating double and triple interpretations of the same events or the same phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u315	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u316	We're going to use the shell bank in this law just to carry out the tasks of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u317	Thank you. The position of the committee is dismissed. Amendment No. 26 of the People's Deputies of Vlasenko shall be made. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:26]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 27 of the national MP Vlasenka. Don't insist. Next line number 31, National Deputy Timoshenko, Sobolev. You will, won't you? Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u318	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to a clear definition of 62 articles of the Constitution regarding the presumption of innocence. The way it's in the draft law right now, it's blurry and it's not protecting a citizen. That is why our amendment refers to taking into account the whole of the aggregate factor that directly highlights the blameless business reputation. And that is how we propose to write it in this article. Requesting support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u319	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u320	This will force primary financial monitoring subjects to collect evidence, and this is not their function.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u321	Thank you. There is a vote of 31 national deputies, Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:17:54]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next item is 32 of the national MP Vlasenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u322	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, this law reflects a discussion that began after September 11 in the United States. What's more important is national security and monitoring or human rights? And if the United States tries to maintain balance, this law does not hold any balance in terms of human rights violations. This first testifies to the definition of the term "blameless reputation", which applies only to so-called individuals, i.e. every citizen of Ukraine. Because any Ukrainian citizen can be subject to this law. Regrettably, the committee’s proposal for an editorial is quite vague, incomprehensible. It is not clear who these criteria will be, who will determine, and who will do so. The idea offered by Yulia Timoshenko in the previous edition, and in my writing, the definition is completely more clear and much more protective of the rights of citizens who can prove their reputation to be irreprehensible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u323	Thank you. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u324	A committee and a subcommittee of law that deals with integrity of business also takes into account the interests of citizens and fully corresponds to the Fourth Directive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u325	Thank you. Vote number 32 of the national MP Vlasenka. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:19:41]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Next line is 42, National Deputy Horvath. Don't insist. Okay. Next line 46, National Deputy Timoshenko, Sobolev. Are you insisting? Please, Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u326	Dear colleagues, this is just as terminological. It introduces a terminology that refers to trusts and trusts. Our editors, in our opinion, fit absolutely and internationally, and the Ukrainian legislation, where we propose: "trustmaker" is a person who has the right to receive income from or under trust. Then such individuals will not be able to escape responsibility and to use the duality of interpretation of legislation in various laws. Our definition is clearly in line with the standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u327	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u328	In your definition, the term "personal category" is defined. In our definition, it is fully in line with the European directive and our legislation, which will work to protect and combat money laundering.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u329	Thank you. Are you insisting? Vote No. 46 of the People's Deputy Timoshenko. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:34]] For-83 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is the 50th People's Deputy Timoshenko. Sergey Vladislavovich, do you insist? Next. Don't insist. 54th National MP Timoshenko. Don't insist. Thank you. Next item. I'm sorry, it says here that Belkova's 61 revision will stand. 60? Please. People's MP, Yuzanin. But you're not the author of 61.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u330	Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the definition of terms. And I'm stressing again, just like my colleagues. This is crucial for the whole bill and its implementation. So please explain to me, Your Honor, and my colleague, why isn't 60 amended if the definition of terrorism-related organizations is consistent with the Anti-Terrorism Act in my amendment? Why do you give vague definitions if there is a definition for this, at least repeat it, as already implemented in Ukrainian legislation. Explain why you did not do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u331	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u332	Dear Nina Petrovna, our definition is entirely consistent with the risk-oriented approach that will be implemented by financial monitoring subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u333	Do you insist on voting, Nina Petrovna? The vote is number 60 of the national deputy of Jujanina, and the committee is proposing that she be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[13:23:57]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I've written: Law 61 by Bilkova, but this is author Zmerenecki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u334	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I have an elegant offer for you. Mr. Chairman, I have an elegant offer for you. I planned to place a series of rights that are related to each other, authors and content, for confirmation, these are the rights that apply to virtual assets. If you're going to give me three minutes to explain your motives, I'm not going to put 15 lines. Agreed?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u335	Agreed. And if it's for confirmation, I suggest we end up setting it up like we did. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u336	Better yet, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u337	Okay, give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u338	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to a very volatile issue. The point is that for the first time in Ukrainian legislation, the concept of "virtual assets" is actually introduced into civilian circulation. What is it? To date, even European legislation does not have a unified view of the legal community in how to define it. Yes, in the fourth directive referred to by the rapporteur, there is no reference to virtual assets; it appears only in the fifth and not virtual assets, but to virtual currency, or currency. There are no references to this asset in our legislation. What can be the result of the money that is in all these regulations? Before, in fact, the Financituring Act is like a criminal code in part of a financial agreement. And we're actually introducing the notion of virtual assets that primary financial monitoring entities are supposed to track down all contracts that may contain transactions with virtual assets. But no bank, no notary, no lawyer knows what it is, what it's eaten with. And if only for the implementation of FATF recommendations. And by the way, FATF started, FATCA started just as a recommendation for virtual currencies. Where it's very tightly described, what it is, where it's clearly and clearly said, that the virtual currency is not simulated by the National Bank, it's not guaranteed by the state in which it's released, who's engaged. We don't have that in our legislation. If it were just the Ministry and the terrorists and the money-laundering guys, I'd be quiet. But today we put all primary monitoring subjects at risk. But I honestly believe that every authority has a constitutional right to its mistakes. Accordingly, I now ask the authors of these rights, Mr. Zmerenecki, whom I respect and also want many innovations in this country, and Mr. Hetmanschev to take political responsibility for all these changes. If you really think you need to start with criminalizing, demonizing virtual assets, please, on your conscience. Four months from now, we're going to go back to that question, and you're going to see that I was right, I was wrong, I was wrong, I wasn't in law, I wasn't in law, I wasn't in law, I wasn't in law, And primary financial monitoring subjects will be guilty and will pay fines. I wish for success, and I grant you the right to ask for confirmation by the author of these rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u339	Olga Valentine's Day, I heard. I assure you, yes. No, I won't say a word, we don't have a discussion. I suggest you put these amendments in the end for confirmation, just like we did. Okay? But I have a request then to give you a list of the rights that will have to be placed on confirmation. Thank you. Amendment number 66. It's a Southern. Don't you insist? Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, who will insist on their work? I see. Fuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u340	National MP Vlasenko will insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u341	88 lashes, Vlasenko. It's the '80s.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u342	Thank you, Mr. Head. Eighty lashes. In fact, once again, we're still in the process of discussing amendments that relate to terminology that will be used throughout the law, and believe me, it will apply to everyone, because this bill touches any third person again. So any citizen of Ukraine, anyone can be subject to this law. So what we're offered is we're offered that in certain situations any citizen may be obliged to explain the source of his assets, but the definition that it's a source of wealth is so broad, so incomprehensible that. And plus, this definition obliges ordinary citizens to collect evidence about the history of their origins. That is, a completely inexplicable definition, totally incomprehensible, which, once again, has nothing to do with the duties of citizens today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u343	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u344	Dear Mr. Vlasenko, if you don't mind, I'm going to subject you a little bit, not every citizen, but only public figures. And your definition, yes, and your definition, it narrows it down more, and we expand it more. That's why we turned you down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u345	Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote No. 80 of the National MP Vlasenko, the committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:36]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Sobolev, 87 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u346	87 revisions, in fact, refer all information collected by a person in order to protect themselves to an appropriate 20 point where additional information is available. Since this is a comprehensive list of 17 items, I would like to add clearly, and the additional information given in 20 points. Then a person will have the right to appeal, for this is an exhaustive list; he cannot refer to it, even though another 20 points are referring to it. This is in harmony with what you do, but this gives you the opportunity to refer to the corresponding article of the same law if a person has already begun to gather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u347	Are you insisting on your right, Sergey Vladislavovich? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote 87 national deputies Timoshenko, Soboljeva, Skrum, Labunski, Nemiri. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:08]] For-86 The decision is not taken. 88 lacquers. Sergey Volodymyrovich, are you going to insist on all of this? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u348	For now, we'll see. No one promised to feed on the road. So, as we go back to our discussion with the honourable rapporteur, I want to say that the problem is that this law is not only distributed to public figures. This law is not limited to persons associated with terrorism. The problem is that from your definitions, the law is also extended to a large, wider circle of persons who, according to this law, may be connected — I emphasize, may be involved in financing terrorism in a variety of ways, when terrorists, in particular, transfer their property or persons suspected of terrorism, transfer their property to someone in charge, or some other person is in charge. That's why anyone in Ukraine can fall under this law. So when we're talking about that your definition is not valid, what's more about the concept of income and income.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u349	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u350	This position is fully in line with the 20th Article of the EU Directive, so we rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u351	Thank you. Are you insisting? Vote number 88 of the Vlasenka People's Deputy. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[13:33:59]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next line 91, National Deputy Timoshenko, National Deputy Sobolev. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Thank you. Next line is 95, Mamka's national deputy. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u352	Honorable national MPs, a very thorough, meaningful bill. I welcome you, if he is accepted, it will be a joy for all to live, and whoever commits terrorist acts is guilty, and whoever is a citizen of Ukraine. My point is that the actors who perform public functions in international organizations, officials are boundless in terms of checking them, controlling them, proving them, providing information on checks that will apply to each supervisor, deputy, and listing them. Please insert a term. Let's not say "all the time," but "for the last three years." Then it will be faithful to the institutions that will be subject to such tests. Thank you. Please support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u353	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u354	You're proposing three years, and we're offering 12 months, so we're treating Ukrainian citizens better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u355	Are you insisting, Gregory Mikolayovich? It's the vote number 95 of Mamka's national deputy. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:45]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Next issue is number 99, National Deputy Timoshenko, National Deputy Sobolev. Nope. I don't see the National Deputy Soboljev. Don't insist. Thank you. Next item. Dear colleagues, Danilo Alexandrovich, please! I don't see any subjects in the legislative initiative. Thank you. Next line 104, National Deputy Timoshenko, National Deputy Sobolev. Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is 109. Don't insist. 106? Yeah, okay, 106.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u356	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u357	Dear colleagues and the committee have also cooperated with primary financial monitoring subjects who have been working for several years. And they say that this legal uncertainty in terminology only damaged their work. And so it remains. Now we're making a law in a new edition, but somehow we didn't make an effort to clear this uncertainty. And my amendment has to do with income. Tell me, please, how can this be any benefit? As we talked to you on the committee that you can count on virtual benefit, it's a bonus or something that's done somewhere outside of even entrepreneurial activity, and the primary monitoring subject can't know about all the activities of the host subject to be classified as a benefit. You have to define the exact fact that it's not a benefit, it's any asset. We already have a terminological section on asset definitions. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u358	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u359	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u360	You had one minute. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u361	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u362	Nina Petrovna, there's not 30 seconds. There's one minute to put it in. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u363	Dear colleagues, the definition of "beneficiary" is not in the law. Think, please, of this concept now that will not be established by this law, which will be used, to whom. I don't know how.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u364	Thank you. It's the vote number 106, although it says here that it's essentially taken into account. The committee requests that the decision be left to the committee. So please identify and vote. [[13:38:35]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Next line is 109, right? Please, National Deputy Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u365	109 revision is a key amendment, because it determines the terminology, whether you can actually attract people who are terrorists, buy weapons. In the way that it is now in the committee's edit, even if it's fixed in comparison to the first reading, you're dropping a whole bunch of assets, including. Why just the currency? What if it's a national unit? Read, there is a clear definition here, which allows, in fact, to really draw on the responsibility of such individuals. So our position is this: 109 on the right is actually an absolute list, it has to be absolute. Then it will be impossible to add in any way, the more this is not found in other articles. The request is to consider it now. And then in the text, it's going to match all the standards that are there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u366	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u367	The editing doesn't take into account the medianity of the acquisition, so we've ruled it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u368	Thank you. Are you insisting, Sergey Vladislavovich? Vote No. 109 of the People's Deputy Timoshenko. The committee turned it down. Please identify and vote. [[13:40:16]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next line is 110 of the Vlasenka People's Deputy. Don't insist. He insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u369	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, it's a continuation of the discussion of purpose or purpose. I would like to emphasize once again when it comes to the so-called third parties you've included here who may be acting on suspicion that a person was somehow financially communicating with a person who is suspected of committing terrorism. So actually, once again, if this third person didn't realize that she was in contact with a terrorist, if she didn't know that she was taking the money that was derived from terrorist activity or financing terrorist activity, then she couldn't be held accountable, she couldn't be subject to any restrictions. Because such a person needs to apply the idea of receiving funds, so that she knew that she was taking funds from management or elsewhere, funds derived from the financing of terrorism or terrorist activities. This is a key and fundamental issue of protecting the rights of all citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u370	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u371	With PFM, there is no obligation to reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u372	Thank you. Are you insisting? It's the 110th People's Deputy Vlasenko vote. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:56]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 122, People's Deputy Timoshenko. Don't insist. And it says "accounted for essentially." It's taken into account essentially. That's not true. Please, 118th, Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u373	Mr. Chairman, once again, we are now entering the term "freezing assets." As it was formulated for the second reading, for the second reading, the freezing of assets, and I stress once again, it's not just the assets of terrorists, it's not just the officials. This refers to any assets called any third person who are suspected of terrorism on a reasonable or unreasonable basis in a financial relationship. Thus, according to the definition proposed by the committee, such assets may be frozen on the basis of decisions of the UN Security Council, decisions of foreign states and (to whom) the court. That is, two previous grounds are used in Ukraine without a court decision. That is, if there is a request from a foreign state, the freezing of an asset may take place without a court ruling, which is unacceptable and in this case violates the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. So you don't have to take 118 into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u374	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u375	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u376	I got it. Are you insisting? It's a vote of 118, the national deputy of Vlasenko. The committee took into account essentially, but the national deputy asked for full consideration. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:03]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Next item. 122nd -- we've already talked. Next item. Next issue is 124, the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u377	Dear colleague, please tell me the tables are now being handed out after the last meeting of the committee. You really cleaned up the Ukrainian Security Service decision. But this amendment was not yet on the committee. And when I pointed out that even if I included the decisions of the Ukrainian Security Service, they should be adopted exclusively and put into effect in accordance with the order set out in the Sanctions Act. Your decision is related to the exclusion of the Security Service when it took place? Who accepted it because it wasn't on the committee? And if you did that, write that the amendment is partially or essentially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u378	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u379	Nina Petrovna, I respect you very much. This was an amendment, so I don't have to add anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u380	Thank you. Are you insisting? Are you insisting, Nina Petrovna? Don't insist, thank you. Next issue, 128, is the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Society, I don't see the National Deputy of the South, please step away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u381	Arsenius Pusharenko. Arsenius Mikhailovich, you can write essays from another place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u382	128th. No, it's not. Thank you. 130th. Okay. I got it. 189th will be yours. Okay. Tell me then, you'll remember. 135th, yours, not either. 136th, Mama. You don't insist, do you? Thank you. 139th, Eugene. Yeah, I heard it, 179th. 146th, Timoshenko. Please turn on Hairy. Sobolev, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u383	Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u384	Dear colleagues, look here, you've set a lower limit of 10 percent, in stockholder society, to take this into account that this person is linked to terrorism. But now the law is in force, and I'm referring to it, Ukrainian Act 2210 of 2017, in which we've already reduced this bill to 5 percent, as it affects the activity of society. Why are we putting 10 percent and not 5 percent of us under terrorism? Put it right. Because in the law it's going to be an important activity, I've called the number of the law that works now. And in this law, we kind of raise this plank twice, up to 10 percent. Under whom is this done? The request to take into account this standard, which is clearly established by our legislation. International acts do not regulate this anywhere, nor does FATF, anywhere. And in our act, it's regulated that a significant impact is 5 percent. Then change that law Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u385	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u386	We worked in strict compliance with the Fourth Directive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u387	Thank you. Are you insisting on the vote, Sergei Vladislavovich? There is a vote of 146 people's deputies, Timoshenko. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:41]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 147, People's Deputy Vlasenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u388	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev, you know, it doesn't play any role, because they put it in the definition to whom and wrote that it's an opportunity, regardless of formal ownership, to have a significant influence on the direction or activity of a legal person. So even if you have one percent, they can prove that you have a significant influence. We've seen, including in this session room, we've seen documents from the prosecutor's office, where they say that a person at an unknown time in an unknown place has had a significant impact. That's what they're going to do. So this definition, I emphasize once again, applies to every citizen of Ukraine. It needs to be corrected and made normal and legally balanced. Because it's a question of asset arrest, it's a possible question of arresting people, it's a possible question at all when people are being broken down by life and fate, without any reason, and having such an entirely wide, inextricable definition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u389	Thank you. Please, you insist, right? A vote of 137 people’s deputies Vlasenko was taken, and the committee rejected it. Please identify and vote. [[13:49:15.]] For-83 The decision is not taken. 155th, Belkova. You will? Belkova, I'm sorry. No, you won't, thank you. 161th, Vlasenko. I didn't doubt it. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u390	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, give me five minutes, I've got about 100 lefts, I think we are. At least I'm not going to continue my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u391	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u392	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, a bill that regulates very, very important issues is a matter of combating terrorism. The faction of the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland has always supported the fight against terrorism and the restrictions on financing terrorism on the basis of international agreements, on the basis of the requirements of international organizations. Unfortunately, however, the bill that was proposed to us today, I reiterate, it does not apply only to terrorists. As it has been formulated, this bill refers to a large number of Ukrainian citizens who may be deliberately or accidentally subject to this law. And so it's very important that this law is absolutely balanced so that it's balanced so that it's clearly defined so that it doesn't have a double interpretation, so that these definitions are clear to law enforcement, so that these definitions are clear to the judicial authorities. Instead, we have completely different things. We have definitions that contain a huge number of subjective things when a person can be attracted to any, ordinary, non-terrorist, any person can be tied to terrorist activity. Suppose, 10 years ago, if you borrowed money from a person who is now recognized as a terrorist, then you automatically get under this law, all of those definitions, and you're left with each other with the weak law that we have. The other one. The low definitions contained in this law contradict those contained in other laws. And this creates certain coalitions when the court doesn't know what term to apply, the law enforcement authority doesn't know what term to apply, etc. At the same time, I'm focusing once again on the key, the key thing. A number of procedural actions are proposed, which by incorrect definition may take place without court decisions. And once again, that's true, it could apply to every citizen of Ukraine. I've already given an example of freezing assets. It turns out that at the request of a foreign state, without a court decision, your assets may be arrested. But again, it all depends on how this definition is interpreted by one investigator, one prosecutor or another. If there's a letter to freeze the assets of a terrorist that you borrowed money from 10 years ago, the prosecutor, believe me, will include you in the asset freeze procedure, knowing how the law enforcement system works. Thus, all of this speaks of one thing: that, like the prescribed law, the law is completely imperfect, the law is not vaguely and improperly written. This law violates, at least in the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, a series of articles of the Ukrainian Constitution, which I agree with, in relation to ordinary citizens, the rights of citizens are limited. Once again, in the debate on terrorism or the rights of citizens, I clearly stand in the position of the rights of Ukrainian citizens. Of course, we must fight terrorism, but without violating the rights of ordinary citizens of Ukraine. This law does not ensure this balance. To my profound conviction, the laws that touch such important things cannot be adopted in such a swift manner as they are proposed to be adopted now. We only got this huge table the other day, just the other day. Only the people who spent the night, the day, and another night were able to analyze it in depth, professionally. So once again, this is completely wrong. Moreover, this bill touches every citizen of Ukraine. And then I personally believe that this bill cannot be voted on. As a last resort, it could be re-readed with a very deep analysis, with a completely professional discussion. People, believe me, the issue of interference in the Criminal Code, the question of interference in the Criminal Procedure Code, in a law like this, as it was rightly called, is the Financial Criminal Code, all microsurgery, to which we should approach very and very well, which unfortunately did not take place during the discussion of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u393	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich, for the constructive position. Dear colleagues, who else insists on their work? Nina Petrovna, Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich and Mama Grigory Mikhailovich. How many, three minutes? Two. Thank you very much. Please turn on Mommy's microphone. Dear colleagues, I continue our meeting for 15 minutes or before we consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u394	Dear national deputies, in fact, do not work, do not follow the rules. But I want to focus your attention on the main points. First. Suspicious financial transactions are the subject of primary financial monitoring either suspect or has sufficient grounds to suspect. We're going to have funding to determine and make decisions. In this bill, we are already legalizing such a term as gambling, which is banned in Ukraine. And the main thing that's going to apply is the amendment of article 209 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Why has it been changed? In order to legally legalize something, it must be stolen, owned by another component of the crime. For the time being, we are instilling in third parties who are in no way obliged to know where the property came from. And we're saying, well, it's the kind of characterization that a person knew or should have known. What is "knowed" or "should have known"? At present, there is no mechanism in criminal law that can tell whether or not there was intention. All of them are involved: first or third parties, but to decipher the criteria, as I knew she should have known, are not there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u395	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich. Nina Petrovna, please tell me, would you mind if I asked you to take the floor instead of the right? Please turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u396	I want to say that for the last time, I agree to make all my adjustments and not talk to them in the hall, because I still think that maybe someone will listen professionally to what I'm saying. If he doesn't listen in the hall, he'll listen to business.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u397	But you can be quieter in the hall anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u398	And citizens, to whom this applies very much. Dear Mrs. Olga's reporter, please tell me, can we not now go back to reading again so that we can work out all the flaws that are very large and not adopting it today, this bill? While I understand your confidence, your laughter, because you know you're voting all the same, but the whole community will cry afterwards. All I want to do is repeat the words of those people who came to us at the committee meeting and went up and said that after that you were killing whole little sectors that were just beginning to develop in Ukraine. You realize that the primary monitoring subjects are now being added by this bill to those ordinary consultants who were not, the accountants, the lawyers who are now going to have to understand the whole point of this law, to organize all the work involved in monitoring, to have enough knowledge of it, and to have more money to organize it, to hire some individuals or consultants who are organizing it. Because the fines laid down by this law are so draconian that they can't stand them, they can't stand them unless they're banks. Even financial institutions have sent letters to other institutions, not banking financial institutions, that the fines imposed by this law are disproportionate, I'm not talking about audit firms anymore. And even though you've been thinking today that a fine may be 10 percent of the annual turnover of any company, but not more than 5 million euros and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u399	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u400	Listen, please, people, to what is now referred to in this law. How can a directive be implemented in such a way? You're saying that if we change the fines and make it more acceptable, taking into account the state of the economy and the state of our business subjects, it's not going to be an implementation of the directive. Learn, please, and you, with executive authority, with the Ministry of Finance, defend the interests of the state-owned Ukrainian business itself. Stop going to the fifth. I'm sure the adoption of this law, Madam Minister of Finance, will not add any value. People are starting to think after 1210, the adoption of a law that will follow this law. You're pushing the rest of the business out of Ukraine. I'm asking you to listen to all the thinking professional people we've had at the committee meeting. I understand that this law is necessary, but allow it to be further developed, please, because you haven't actually changed anything on fines. How will an auditor or accountant, whose 3 people who earn 200,000, pay 10 percent or 1 million euros? Or not more than 1 million euros and so on. With regard to all these questions, there is simply a big question mark. Please don't kill the Ukrainian business. "Serves of the people," please stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u401	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev. We can also make a performance. Please turn on the microphone. Two minutes, please give Soboljev. And get ready, we'll move on to the vote after that. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u402	Dear colleagues, the logic offered by the Fatherland faction, is in many ways consistent with other proposals. It was meant to provide a normative basis to provide a basis for existing legislation to provide a base of clear definitions and a terminology basis so that the law could then be applied. Unfortunately, all these adjustments have been rejected. None of them are counted. We're going to have a situation now that there's one terminology in some laws, another in this law, and sometimes even there's a contradiction within this legislation. But there is one positive thing we've just been given, two hours ago, that's your drafting of the law, where you threw out the non-convictional possibility of confiscation, freezing and all. Unfortunately, our 178 on 31 points, you didn't count. In the end, you took this into account, and at 31 points, you left behind the "condemned possibility of freezing assets." Please bring this into line with what you just gave us. It's called "transitional positions" and it's the same thing as 178 of our amendment. We're asking you to replace the terminology. So there's no more judgment. the possibility of freezing against the use or restriction of financial assets. And then that's going to be true because you gave it away this morning. Because you missed it in paragraph 31. Then we vote, I insist on this vote. And I'm taking off the other stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u403	I'm giving you a minute from the motive of the Minister of Finance of Markar Oksana Sergiyevna. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u404	Dear colleagues! I want to thank you for considering this bill, and I hope that we will support it today. Most of our neighbours around us who are going to the European Union have long implemented the Fourth Directive. Most of our countries around us have long struggled with such a shameful phenomenon as money laundering. This law actually improves conditions for conscientious business and conscientious citizens. Because instead of the 17 criteria that we're looking at right now, which we're checking with, it's just going to be 4. Instead of the 150,000 that every bank now checks for funding, it's going to be 400,000. So we're actually taking the little ones out of this law and we're going to focus very clearly on the risk-oriented ones who are actually doing money-absorbing and money-laundering by criminal means. That's why we're on the committee today. From the very morning on, the committee supported a further weakening for small-time professional participants, lowering some fines. And in this edition, which is here, compared to Poland, to the Baltic and to other countries, we also have an editorial that will allow, first of all, to implement the European directive exactly with the European definitions that are brought into our Ukrainian legislation and at the same time make it impossible, in fact, to launder or reduce it substantially by criminal means. So I ask you to support him today. And from myself, and from the government, I want to say that we will be very responsible to implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u405	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Voice of Motives, Bilkova, with the motive of a minute. One amendment, which, Sergey Vladislavovich? Please turn on the Soboljevo microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u406	I asked one single amendment 178, where it's about a non-convict arrest, in fact, to match what was handed out to the committee in the morning. Because in the Transitional Situations, this was recorded, namely, in the text of Law 31, to remove a non-convictional arrest, the request to bring it into line. You might even compare it to what you gave out in the morning. This is 178 revisions. Request to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u407	178. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u408	No, we can't put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u409	Explain. No, that's not the answer. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u410	It balances the bill, it's fully agreed, and we can't put it on the table right now. Breaks the structure of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u411	Who's with the Voice? Osadchuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u412	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head! I did not insist on my writings by merely trying to reach a constructive point, although the claims to the bill are extremely important. But I actually have a keynote address for you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. The bill was copied along and through the Criminal Code, which affected the procedural codes. And that's what the tax committee did. With all due respect to the tax committee, with all due respect to the reporter, they're not professional lawyers, they're not expert experts on these issues. I would like to ask you very much further when similar bills appear, to identify the Main Committee more correctly. I am deeply convinced that the Committee of Law-enforcement Policy should be the main committee for this bill. We made that mistake. But let us continue to be more careful about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u413	Thank you. Belkova's a minute's motive. Then we put 178 on confirmation. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u414	Thank you very much. Mr. Head, you asked me not to do my work. I agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u415	Yeah, which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u416	And now I'm paying attention to you. You want virtual assets, please take them. But then be consistent. In "The End Positions, the Transitions," you give an order that says that all regulators, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u417	In the microphone, if you please. You don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u418	The NBU, the Securities Commission, must prepare the appropriate ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u419	What's the readout number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u420	It's not a readout number. This is an additional table, page 5. We determine who should prepare the legal acts. In a delicate way, you've forgotten about the Ministry of Digitalization, or what it's now called.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u421	What's the readout? Number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u422	I don't have an update. Editablely, you have to join the Ministry here if you think that virtual assets should remain in law. Please confirm, Mr. Getmants, that I am right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u423	Is technical law going to be okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u424	Yeah. But under the transcript, it's a specific ministry. And let them prepare the documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u425	Is that right, committee head? Please tell me. Turn on the Gethman microphone. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u426	Yes, thank you. We're taking into account technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u427	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of number 178. To the vote, sorry. Timoshenko, Sobolev, Skrum, Labunska, Nemira. I'm betting on a vote to take into account the number 178 of the People's Deputies, Timoshenko. She was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. Then we go to voting for the law. [[14:10:21]] For 106 No decision taken, no correction counted. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. We vote for the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u428	And while colleagues are preparing, let's welcome our schoolchildren from the village of Kuchinovka, Montenegro. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u429	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Laundering of Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Distribution of Weapons of Mass Destruction (Registration No. 2179). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:11:43]] For 246 The decision is adopted, the law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. People's Servant – 225, Opposition Platform – Life – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherhood – 0, Future – 2, Voice – 13, non-fractional – 6. Thank you, all of you, dear colleagues. Announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u430	A small announcement. An interfractional parliamentary association has been created "Brand-State of Ukraine". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Voronov Vladimir Anatoliyovich, was elected head of this association. Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-06-m0.u431	Dear colleagues, let's be the first to set up a sport on Thursday. We'll make a deal right now. There were other questions, all of them agreed, because we're not voting in general right now, I get it. Would you like to vote on the Sports Act? Please return to the hall. Now. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sport (for the activities of the Ukrainian Student Association and the Ukrainian Student Sports Federation) (registration number 2077). It is suggested that we accept it without discussion. Take it as a base. Ready? We have two minutes. Ready. I'll bet you a vote for adoption on the basis of the bill. There's no minutes. We have a minute to pass the law. I'm betting on the vote for acceptance. Oh, no? Dear colleagues, we accept as a base. I would like to propose that the draft Law amending the Law on Physical Culture and Sports (Registration No. 2077) should be adopted on the basis of the vote. Please support and vote. [[14:14:23]] For 279 Decision taken. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading (registration 2077). Please support and vote. [[14:14:53]] For 254 Decision taken. 14:15. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you all very much.
