ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please prepare to register, we'll start our work. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Please register. [[10:08:22]] There are 313 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is our parliamentary day of birth. I welcome the birthday of Bardina Marina Olegovna and Aresonkova Vladimir Yuriovich. [[Applause]] I wish my best, my health, my family’s harmony, my achievements, and my successful projects. With a holiday! Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, statements, reports. Please sign up for factions. One minute, now we have an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Before we move on to the speeches of our national deputies, we invite the representatives of the Plast organization, who brought us the Beneficent Bethlehem Fire, if you don't mind. Let's invite these young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u3	Good afternoon, distinguished nationals. I, John Bratzen, am the head of Kiev’s Plastic. This burning lamp is called the Bethlehem Fire of Peace. We came here to share it with you, because Bethlehem's fire of peace is the light of the birth of Jesus Christ, which we share with those who celebrate Christmas outside the house. This initiative was launched in 1988 by an Austrian television company as a charity campaign, and was captured by Vienna’s scouts, as well as by everyone else, and later spread around the world. Since then, Bethlehem’s fire of peace has traveled the world as a light of warmth, harmony, and expectation, crossing borders and bringing people together on the eve of Christ’s Christmas. Today, this fire unites not only Ukraine but also Ukrainians around the world — from the Donetsk terikons to the Levite Carpathians, Australia, the United States, and Canada. The fire that unites us in the most difficult times of war and peace and reminds us that unity is our force, for it is this unity that has helped us to stop Russian aggression and help us to move, to develop our country in times of daily challenges. And when we sit at the table on Christmas Eve, we would also like to mention all those who gave their lives for this fire of peace, and the linens for more than 500 in 100 years. Let this fire become our light that will help us to move in the most difficult ways. With the coming Christmas celebrations of you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Let's move on to the performances. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, "Trust." Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, and I have a request: Heads of factions, please come in for two minutes so that we can negotiate while the performances are under way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u5	Good day, dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium. The Trust MP group is exclusively represented by major MPs. We keep talking to our constituents, so we're going to raise the problems that people are telling us. What concerns people most today? It's a housing-communal tariff problem. For the majority of the population, they're just insurmountable. The issue of medical care, the closure of district hospitals, the closure of whole compartments, and the closure of FAPs is a pressing issue. People are desperate and do not know where or how to treat them. The issue of education is that it's a problem of so-called small-scale schools, optimizing the school network. As a result, there is a problem with young professionals simply not going to education in rural medicine. Even so, the local authorities are willing to offer them housing. And a few of our group's positions on the resonant issue that we have today are a question of the land market. Unfortunately, in recent times we have moved away from a constructive discussion about what to be the land market in Ukraine, which will be the Ukrainian model. And we went to political speculation and we don't actually talk. The "Trust" MPs won't stand in the way of politicians who are changing their views from place to place. When you're in power, you have the same idea when you're in opposition. We are prepared to consider a bill on opening up the land market in fact, ready to consider it on a case-by-case basis. And we realize that today there is a shadow market for the earth. Long - term rents are sold, corporate rights are sold, land is sold for personal farming. And that's under the conditions of an active moratorium. We cannot continue the moratorium every year and say that we are not on time. Because people need to understand that they have the right to choose. But to do so requires key answers to key questions. Who can buy Ukrainian land — physicists, lawyers, or foreign companies? Because for the majority of the population, this is an unfavorable way. What will be the concentration of the earth in one hand: the region, the area, the state? How will the borrowing mechanism work? What will be the loans? What will be the interest rates? What will the State take on? But this must be done as part of a constructive discussion. We should hear both landowners and tenants. And once again, this should be considered as part of a constructive discussion, absolutely without political slogans. But the position of our "Trust" group is as follows. The only way to open up the land market is if the Ukrainian farmer and the Ukrainian farmer stand in the first place, and then it will all be balanced and people will understand us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u6	Thank you. A representative of the political party "European Solidarity", Alexi Honcharenko, please, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u7	Alexei Honcharenko "European Solidarity", north of Odščina. Dear friends, I'm paying attention to all of you this week, which is yesterday, a very important event has taken place: the text of the draft changes to the Greens Constitution, which is called "The Decentralization". Well, it's already Zelensky's habit of writing one thing, which means something completely different. We've seen many times of this when, under the name of Nuclear Energy Security, Russian electricity was being imported into Ukraine, when, under the name of the sole tax bill, entrepreneurs were moving their own pockets into the tobacco market, millions, millions, millions, and millions. And we have many, many examples like this. And again we saw a bill on decentralization, changes to the Constitution on decentralization. In fact, my friends, this is the bill on disinformation of the Ukrainian people and disorientation of our society. Why? Because this bill, aside from the usual attack on local self-government -- what we see from the very beginning of this turbulence and this power -- there are things that are totally unacceptable, there is an attempt to create a quiet opportunity for the federalization of Ukraine. I quote you in article 92, the changes Zelensky made: "The laws of Ukraine define the administrative and territorial system, the legal status of the administrative and territorial units." What does that mean? This means that tomorrow, without any more than 300 votes, the law of Ukraine, for example, on the special legal status of the Donetsk Region, the Luhansk Region, could be passed quietly by 226 votes. And tomorrow Putin will demand Harkovsky, Odessa, please. What is it? It's actually when we're told that the President has listened to society and felt these red lines that can't be crossed, that he just wants to pretend that he doesn't cross them, and actually he's doing things like I just told you. One thing I'm curious about is, is this the Green Car to Paris, or did you bring it from Paris? When he returned, literally for a few days, from his meeting with Putin and Gazprom, the show "Serve of the People" appeared, and then he was suspended, maybe waiting for this bill to be adopted, to be reopened? Dear friends, this bill cannot be accepted. Today thousands of people have gone to the market. This is the logical conclusion of this idea of Zelensky, when it will be possible not only to sell land but whole areas in bulk and fragments. No, Ukraine's federalization! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u8	Labunsky Angela Victorian. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, now thousands of small farmers, small and medium-sized farmers, have gathered near the Supreme Council. They have come from all over the country with their techniques, along with their teams, with their workers, and including those who have pies. They have a very clear idea today that Parliament, the President, can't hear them. And that's why they're addressing all of you people's deputies. They say that they have held numerous meetings with government, protests, roadblocks, and today about 14 central roads are blocked by agricultural technology. But the agrarians find that the national MPs don't hear them, and they say that if the Agricultural Land Sales Act is adopted in this room, it's essentially going to be a countdown, it's going to be a historic event that will start the process of eliminating Ukraine as an independent state, eliminating the remnants of our agriculture and essentially eliminating the security of our country, because today the situation in the world with fertile lands is essentially tragic. What do they say, and what does agriculture require? They say they won't give up so easily, they'll come here tens of thousands, look you in the eye and ask. When they gave you their votes, did they give you the right to sell the land without a referendum? No, it's not. What are their requirements? They demand that all the land sales projects be immediately withdrawn. These are the three bills that have already been voted on in the first reading. They demand that the Referendum Act be passed immediately, and that they hold a referendum, and ask people, are they ready to sell their agricultural land -- 72 percent of their territory? They also require, until a referendum is held and a proper agricultural arrangement is created, a farmer's arrangement, to start a referendum for three years, and a real referendum will be the answer, whether we have the right to do it or not. I ask all the deputies, if you represent the people, go to the agrarians, they're under the Supreme Council, talk to them and act in the interests of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u10	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u11	Good morning, dear fellows! For three months, we've been seeing the same picture: the government team is in a public hurry to declare its victories, and then it turns out that there are problems behind the slogans that are dangerous to the country. I'll give you just three examples, critical right now and right now. One: negotiations in Normandy format. The president and his team rushed to Paris and then actively reported on the success of the negotiations. The press conference was over, and then we read in the communiqué. What do we see in this communiqué? It's a direct commitment to implement the Steinmeier formula that people have taken to the streets. Moreover, the vote for the special status of Donbas is the vote passed by the red lines defined by society. To our surprise, this vote was supported by the forces that drew these red lines themselves. The second example is the public report of the Sheremet investigation. I'm not going to go into detail, the responsible politicians have no right to comment on the course of the investigation, but the pursuit of publicity has already created a problem. The form of bringing this case to society undermines trust, trust in law enforcement and judges, which is still lacking, but worse still, undermines trust in veterans and volunteers who have saved the country that Voice has supported and will sustain forever. We were in such a hurry not to see the country lose. All of this could have been avoided, not rushed to a press conference, investigated without a vowel, waiting for a final court decision. But I want a loud victory. And so I'm going to give you a third example. From this rostrum today, I want to warn my colleague of a similar mistake. For a press conference report, you're going to adopt a law with a great title: the integrity of the MPs. We've already voted against inviolability, we've changed the Constitution, and now you want the law to actually bring it back and give it the opportunity to start running by one person, the Attorney General of Ukraine, who we already know is a hundred percent president. And this law with the rights can be read in such a way that the MP does not bear legal responsibility — think about it! - in the exercise of parliamentary powers. So if you want to do that, you can do whatever you want. 24 hours a day for all five years of parliamentary authority. It's not the difference between inviolability, it's the strengthening of inviolability. So I urge you to stop, to listen to the Voice proposals, and to vote for the real one, not for the coolness of the people's MPs. To enjoy today, it's enough to have a loud piano company. To make history tomorrow, you need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u12	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u13	To get into history, you need to make a success that no one has ever achieved, not repeat the mistakes of your predecessors. Mr. President, my colleagues in monocoalysm, don't say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u14	Svslav Ivanovich, I added 10 seconds here, but we agreed on the Conciliation that we don't add either 10 or 20 or 30 anymore, because at the last meeting of Parliament, after the time was added to the People's MP, then two added time to the People's Deputy, we got in the information field what he had after that and turned off the microphone. So that there are no more such incidents, there is no provision for adding time, so we are moving within the limits set by each national MP. Thank you. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u15	With the coming New Year! First of all, I'm addressing you, the reverend Party of "Serves of the People." You've got something to say hello to. You went to Parliament, you have a majority, you have many, and you have already begun to change Ukraine. For example, Mr. Soros took the second step in the ranking of the most influential Ukrainians, which I welcome. I know. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know they're making presents by the New Year, so you want to sell Ukrainian land so that the IMF and Soros have a good mood for the New Year. And for Ukrainians who will no longer have their land after this law, you have already adopted, as you have noted, the urgent Law on Organ Transplantation. It's all locked up. And now another urgent Decentralization Act that you have, you can name the streets, the districts, the cities. Why are you guys embarrassed? Call us "Sorosia" by New Year's Eve, because that's all you do. Another New Year's, boys, gift to Mr. Soros is a buried peace in our country. By removing the Donbas status item from the Decentralization Act, you're hiding the Minsk Process. I understand that Soros needs a war in our country, and you put this war under his tree. A few days ago, in the Odessa region, there was a condemned man who was driving under a red flag in the village, on which it was written: Homeland War. He was given a year and a big fine. At the same time, no man in Ukraine was convicted of a Nazi flag or symbolism. And I understand that when the Prime Minister is your Prime Minister, he openly attends concerts of Nazi rock bands, and the SS division Galicina has become almost a model for young people, you find it difficult to condemn Nazism. Dear colleagues, everyone needs to choose whose servant he is — the people of Ukraine or foreign rulers. Everyone has to decide whether he works for Ukraine or he's just a servant. I address you because I believe that many of you will be with the people and will not uphold these laws. And before you, dear fellow countrymen, we no longer have industry, instead of missiles, we make pots, instead of ships, we supply honey. And all that's left is land, but they want to take it. I'll say one last thing: any good slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u16	Vadim Zinovovich! Vadim Zinovovich, I didn't turn off the microphone. So there won't be any talk later. Thank you. Janchenko Galina Igorovna Asking you to stick to the rules. You have a counter there that shows how much time you have left for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u17	Good morning, Your Honor's Presidium, Your Honor's colleagues. Today we have the opportunity to complete the entire era. An age characterized by the fact that there is a caste of Gentiles in our country who have exclusive rights to break the law. That is how you can briefly describe the amount of parliamentary immunity that exists. Year after year, in order to become a part of this, castes have spent millions of dollars, not on life, but on the right to a seat under a parliamentary dome. We had eight parliamentary appeals before us, but none of them dared to deprive themselves of this privileged status of inviolability. And it was only this Parliament that had the courage and political will to do so. To this end, we took a very important step in September and approved the changes to the Constitution, which will make the caste of impunity no longer exist on January 1, 2020. Today we have the task of bringing all other Ukrainian legislation into line with the new constitution. We're going to be looking at Bill No.2237, which will define a new rule of law and a procedure to bring the people's deputies to justice. The bill also establishes a new European form of identity, to which parliamentary political activity can take place not only in the Parliamentary Hall but also outside it. This Supreme Council has repeatedly destroyed old traditions and introduced new ones. One such tradition was following the electoral agenda and the rapid implementation of commitments and political promises. And here, I think you will agree with me that the abolition of parliamentary immunity is one of the main political promises this year, as in principle, for the last 20 years. It was given not only by us but also by practically every party in this Parliament. That is why I look forward to your political responsibility. I hope that we all go to the last one together, and today we will take the last step to ensure that there is no more parliamentary immunity. I also want to correct some of the myths that are spreading here to individual people's deputies about the complexity of the procedure of being held accountable. I want to remind them and ask them to read the Criminal Procedure Code carefully, namely article 214, under which the registration of criminal conduct in the GDR is not a privilege of the Attorney General, an investigator or any other person, but a duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u18	Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u19	Good afternoon, dear friends, distinguished colleagues, the venerable agrarians that stand under the walls of Parliament today! I want to say that Parliament is a reflection of society. The Ukrainian people gave us great confidence by voting for the ninth parliamentary call. And I think we should be proud of that trust. But it was often in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism that Parliament and society lived separate lives before the end of the cabinet. Because the parliamentarians did not feel the mood of the common people. Today, friends, and we'll keep reminding ourselves, all social surveys show that more than 70 percent of the population don't support opening up the land market. So we're talking about Parliament and society differing in their views today. I'm talking today about the monotonousness that will address the issue, and it's about the market of the earth. What we want to see and hear. We want to hear today a committee of profile of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been unable for a long time to consider amendments that today are large enough in the market for the earth. We want to see what are the safeguards for the sale of land set up by governments and parliamentarians so that people are not intimidated. Today it is impossible to walk the streets, it is impossible to walk through villages, populated areas, people in fear of the opening of the earth’s market. We realize today that the main resource left by humans is land, it's nadra and state-owned enterprises. And we just don't sell it that way, and people just won't. Dear friends, we're not setting any fuses. Therefore, we ask the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s profile committee to consider these amendments. And even if we don't get through them, that doesn't mean that this bill is supposed to be standing for today. We will not lose anything if we consider the earth’s market from the beginning of the following year. This does not mean that there will be no moratorium on the earth’s market. The moratorium is automatically prolonged. And there's no opening up the market for land unless we're prolonging it. Nineteen years later, they were prolonged. Because the land market has been entering since the adoption of the relevant Agricultural Land Circumstances Act. Dear friends, we demand that today we withdraw from the agenda these draft laws concerning the earth market to go and talk to the people. We demand today and now we ask the Speaker of the Parliament, Dmitry Alexanderovich Razumkov, to announce a recess, a half-hour break, so that the heads of factions, representatives of Parliament will go out to the people, go out to the small farmers, calm them down, hear their opinion and present this opinion, then stand in the walls of Parliament. Thank you. We listen to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u20	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions requesting a recess of 30 minutes from the Fatherland factions and the Future. But similarly, when we were meeting here with factions, there was a proposal to replace the break, the one that was about to take place, and the national MPs would go and talk to representatives of different social organizations and activists, cancel the break between 12 and 12:30. Please tell me, do we need to vote on this, or is there consensus in this room? Vote. Please prepare for the vote. It's 30 minutes till 11:10. I also didn't quite understand the proposal, because, on the one hand, it was said that they would go talk to the people of the factions, on the other hand, it was written that the request to gather the heads of factions into the Supreme Council. So there's a way to figure it out. Then come on, let's decide what to do. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues. Yeah. Batenko was just speaking and said that it was necessary for faction heads to go and communicate with people. In parallel with this, the statement says that it will be collected. I'll get it together, not a question, just figure it out with each other, please. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the motion to cancel the break from 12 to 12:30 due to the fact that a 30-minute recess will now be announced. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:41:11]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Thank you. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Please, heads of factions, come up, decide what we're doing, whether we're meeting or what we're doing, as we plan our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u21	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich is invited to attend. Here we go to a question that was not discussed at the previous Supreme Council of Ukraine registration number 2124: a draft Decision on the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the area of social protection. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm happy to welcome you back from this rostrum. I remember how much emotion you had started to consider this issue last Friday. Dear colleagues, the previous authorities have unfortunately succeeded in adopting several laws over the years 2014-2018, which have narrowed down, narrowed down or completely abolished the number of legal social guarantees, compensations and benefits for vulnerable population groups, including -- attention! Pensioners, Chernobylers, veterans and children of war, victims of Nazi persecution, people with disabilities, families with children, teachers, social workers and other categories of citizens. People's deputies -- your colleagues of the eighth vocation took advantage of their constitutional rights and appealed to the Constitutional Court, and by decisions, three decisions since 2018 and a decision of June this year, the Constitutional Court has repealed a number of laws that have limited social guarantees and payments to our citizens. We propose to you a draft ruling in which we require, firstly, that you assign the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take immediate action to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court. In this regard, the 2020 budget will be amended. You know, we demanded it from the previous government exactly a year ago, but their position was clear. We knew who they were serving, but you seem to be serving the people of Ukraine, you are "ministers of the people." And we're sad to say that in the budget for 2020, these decisions are made by constitutional courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u23	Thank you. No, Nestor Ivanovich, we agreed. Your people's deputies have been talking about someone turning off the microphone. Shuts down the "Race" system. I think you can bring this to your colleagues. Thank you. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Vendíkté Irina Valentinovni. Please invest in time, you have a timer in front of your eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. In fact, it's called a very beautiful decision, but if you read two sheets of that decision, you'll see that it's a completely populist decision. In accordance with article 151, marked 2 of the Constitution, decisions and conclusions approved by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are binding, final, and cannot be charged. In addition, the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine have direct effect and do not require confirmation from any public authority. Therefore, what is proposed in the ruling is: to submit to the Supreme Council, if necessary, changes to the 19th year budget, I apologize, and to adopt legislative acts that correspond to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, they do not correspond to those positions at all and are not relevant at this time, and do not in any way interfere with the direct effect of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Committee on Legal Policy therefore finds it inappropriate to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft Decision, since the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court does not in any way require additional security. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u25	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Dear colleagues, do you need a discussion? Sign up: two in, two in. And I didn't quite realize, if there's a Royal, why did I report Shufrich? Slavic Antonina Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u26	It's a royal one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u27	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u28	Honorable colleagues present during Ukraine's independence, each president and every authority proposes to change the Constitution, proposes to improve it. Unfortunately, however, no other president has become a guarantor of the Constitution and has failed to control its implementation. Well, what cynicism, when we won a year ago with representatives of Chernobyl, veterans, and pensioners, won four decisions by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We have proved that the Dusty regime and the past parliament violated the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court has taken a decision, but neither the previous government nor the new Government of Hončaruk has implemented the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Dear, well, it's criminal inaction. Well, how can Parliament look at this and not react in any way? And, excuse me, when the Committee on Legal Policy claims that the decision of the CSO is final and has direct action, we fully agree with you. Please ensure that the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is implemented. What are we doing now? We say, "Let someone do it." That's how we are Parliament of Ukraine. We need to ask the President to give clear instructions now to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and to bring to justice those persons who today do not comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and do not return the benefits and compensation to the black people, to the participants in the war, to persons who are subject to veteran law, to persons who have special merit before the Fatherland who have retired for years. We insist on execution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u29	Thank you, Natalia Yuriovna. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u30	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Indeed, there is an extremely social issue -- these are the various benefits that the state has in its time granted to the Chernobylites, Afghans, pensioners -- the issue of social security for the people in Ukraine, the issue of the provision of pensioners. Many of these decisions were made in their time by populist, non - populist, but they were and were and worked, and they were of great benefit to people. There have been past governments that have decided that these things can simply be rejected, failed to comply, failed to comply with laws, and forgotten these categories of people in general, and compared them with all. But then there was an application to the Constitutional Court -- and all of those decisions were overturned. Someone likes it or doesn't like it, but we have to get used to any decision from the District Court to all the other courts, including, first of all, the Constitutional Court must be executed, and they must be implemented first of all, whether the government likes it or not. You don't know how to do it, so you're freeing up, there's a team that's ready to do it. If you don't think there's enough money to do all this, let's make proposals on how to reform the budget, how to change legislation in a complex way. But not only did they cancel decisions and forget about them in general. It was the people who saved the country in their time from the Chernobyl disaster that carried out their mission in Afghanistan. They did not go there, their state sent them, and they carried out their duties. Therefore, the state should take care of them. We call for a decision by the Constitutional Court and a decision on how to further shape the social policy of the State. This has to be a comprehensive government proposal, a comprehensive provision for these categories of people. Thank you. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u31	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u32	Vladimir Aresonkov, Trust Group. Dear fellow MPs, I'm drawing your attention to what this decision is about. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the deputies do not create any new law, the national deputies do not require anything that goes beyond their competence from the Ukrainian government. By this decree, the Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the new Ukrainian government to fulfil its basic obligations, to comply with the decisions of the highest court of our State, the Constitutional Court, as has already been emphasized, whose direct rules are in force throughout the country and are binding on implementation. What are we talking about? That in previous years those social categories that have already been mentioned by my colleagues and teachers, and doctors, and Chernobyl, and pensioners, under certain circumstances, were limited in certain social benefits, supplements, and so forth. Today, the Constitutional Court and we demand the full restoration of social benefits and guarantees for our citizens. Yes, it is a financial problem today, but the government has to come with us in a dialogue. To make a program, let's say, for a number of years, where we figure out that we're going to make up for the debts owed to people who were and to refuse and reject is the last thing we can do. Therefore, the "Trust" group demands that we vote in favour of the decree, we support our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u34	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, Your Honor, your colleagues! In fact, the Constitution of Ukraine approves and establishes the right of citizens of the State to receive salaries, pensions, scholarships and other benefits provided for under the law. We have had a sad history of the succession of governments to legal nihilism. And we believe that the Constitutional Court, which obliged the State to pay all the payments provided for by law, performed and acted on behalf of the Ukrainian people. But why the previous governments and the present ones do not comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision, this should be regulated by valid legislation. And we propose that, in addition to Article 175 of the Criminal Code, which obliges to pay wages, scholarships and other payments, a separate article should be introduced on first category officials: heads of government, ministers for failure to act directly, and the highest law is the Constitution. When it comes to the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is sad, but it is he who did not specify any deadlines for the execution of the decision and some other things that he could indicate. We will vote in favour of this decree because it provides guarantees to citizens to receive these payments. And I would very much like to see, by political will, the very authority of the citizen and his guarantees. Please, deputy, support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u35	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? From "Trust" was a performer, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the rejecting committee of the draft Ordinance to ensure the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the area of social protection (register No. 2124). [[B in m in s a l in]] Ready to vote? Why not? For what reasons? Natalia Yuriovna, I'm sorry! No, that's right, I'm betting what the committee recommended. The committee's proposing a rejection. That's right. So let's vote first on the committee proposal. If it's not supported, if it's not 226, let's go to the other vote. Right? Is that what the Rules predict? No, Julia Volodymyrna. First, we put the committee's proposal to the vote. If it is supported by the hall, this decision will be rejected. If there's no 226, let's go to the other vote. That's what the Rules say. Thank you. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[11:38:12]] For 240 Decision taken. Order rejected. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" - 219, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 19, "Trust" - 0. The procedure is Kornienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u36	There are two suggestions. First offer to cancel the break at 12 o'clock. Second offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u37	One more microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u38	The second suggestion is to work until the issues of order are exhausted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! Wait a minute. Dear colleagues, on the first offer: cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. Wait, I'm not finished, colleagues. What's the rush? An agreement was reached with the faction leaders when we were going not to break today, but to hold a meeting from 12:30 p.m. to 12:30 p.m. So I suggest you don't put that question to the vote. And the second question is, how about we continue the meeting of the Supreme Council before we exhaust the entire agenda that is scheduled for today. Dear colleagues, I'm putting this motion to a vote, and I'm asking you to support it and vote. [[11:39:58]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Thank you. I'm sorry. Let's move on to the next question of order. Yuri Anatolyevich. Show the factions, please. 218 – "Serve of the People", "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "The Voice" – 5, "The Trust" – 0, "The Trust" – 2. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. [[B in m in s a l in]] Voice: 0, I'm sorry. Excuse me. Voice 0. [[B in m in s a l in]] About what, Yuri Anatolyovich? For reasons, that's when you're considering the question. Yuri Anatolyevich. Let's ask you a question, you'll have the opportunity to speak. Colleagues, we agreed on something else. But if you're breaking an agreement, there's no question. Yes, for reasons of what? What is the motive for the question? It's not a procedure. Dear colleagues, let's be kind to each other! Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Change in the Order of the Day of the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration number 2101-19). It is necessary to discuss whether we can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u40	There's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u41	Proposal, Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u42	There's an offer. And yet, as we said before, the question with plastic is to ask the first question. And that's what I'm going to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u43	I now propose to vote in favour of this agenda, which is proposed to you, and then to postpone the consideration of the issue, to change the order in which questions are being considered today, and to consider the question of Plastic. Note? Discussed. Sign up: two for, two for, two for, two for factions. Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Now, from the rostrum, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u44	Mr. Speaker, Your Honor, I'd like to remind you of what you just did today, I mean "Serve of the People." Because when a decision was made to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court, I personally had no doubt that Parliament, as a legislative body, should support the decision of the Supreme Court of our State, should support it. And what you've done, I'm not saying any more about all the niggers, the cripples, looking at you today, thinking, "Who did we choose?" You haven't done it yet. You haven't supported the Constitutional Court. And I don't understand. I actually understand that tomorrow or today, when a decision is passed and is sent to the Constitutional Court, what will you expect when you express such disrespect for the court and the people who elected you to Parliament to make life easier for them. Shame on you, "ministers of the people"!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u45	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u46	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u47	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, there are no opposition bills in the decision to form the agenda, and that is unfair. We insist that in the order of the day this week -- first, there be a statement of 2510 co-authorship of the Voice, the honourable Mrs. Bobrowski, and ours. This is a statement from the Supreme Council to Interpol calling on this venerable structure not to use the Russian Federation's Red Cards as a "dubina" against Ukrainian citizens. And last week there was another similar incident with our respectable colleague Chubarov. We have to respond to this, or we soon have no politicians, no statesman, no military will be able to go to any third country through Interpol cards. The second important issue raised by all opposition factions is the inadmissibility of the President's intervention in the work of the forces. The media has released the relevant films that record the D.B.I.’s management’s discussion with the President’s Office, where direct instructions are given as to what matters to order. And so it's very important, colleagues, that we create a temporary commission of inquiry on the inadmissibility of interference with the work of independent power organs and law enforcement structures of the authorities. We ask you to put this TSC to a vote, and we ask you to do it for several weeks now, and also to be more careful about the opposition bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u48	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. My fellow Members, I think that after your previous vote, which has just taken place with regard to the Constitutional Court's decisions, the next logical decision that you should make as a majority in Parliament is to cancel and terminate the Constitutional Court's activities in Ukraine at all. Why is it necessary if you do not make the decision? For what do we spend billions of dollars on it, hundreds of thousands of dollars we pay these judges if you allow yourself not to comply with the Constitutional Court rulings that are legally accepted? Why do you keep it, vote on the budget, and so forth? By the same logic, tomorrow you can vote and not execute any rulings of the Supreme Court, appeals agencies, district courts. What are they for, if there is a Supreme Council, if you can make your own decisions and do nothing? It's absurd, it's absurd, you don't want to make decisions about benefits for Afghans, for black people, for social security. So answer: How, then, did we make these decisions, why the Constitutional Court? Think about what you're doing. I don't want to continue to comment, you understand for yourself, turn your brains on at last. The solution is, they must be implemented. Let the government then think, sit down, redesign the budget, take all these decisions into account. And if we don't agree, we're voting, we're changing legislation, but we're doing it civilized, not like we did before. And the decisions must always be made, I repeat, the fifth time. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u50	Krulko Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u51	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Three short ones. Thesis first. Finally, the faction of the majority of the "Serial of the People" has come to realize that the less decisions that are made here that are not human-related, the better for the country, so they didn't continue voting after 18 hours, that's good. The second question relating to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. If we, as a parliament, are unable to take a decision to ensure that the decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to benefits for people who have been won by the courts are implemented in practice, then the question arises: Who does this Parliament represent? This Parliament represents the people of Ukraine, as stated in the Constitution, does this Parliament represent anyone’s private interests? So let's figure this out. So I don't understand why the obvious decision that each person had to make in this room wasn't voted by majority. And the third question I'd like to talk about. Let's, indeed, today, on the day that the Scouting Organisation, our national organization, spoke in this session hall, has traditionally brought the Bethlehem Beneficent Fire to the Sessional Hall, and the question of the bill concerning Plastic is now the last of the day. So, why don't we just move it over and look at it now, put together a room, vote on the decision that applies today, and show that Parliament is finally able not only to make the decisions that someone needs by the "hotel" but the decisions that Ukrainian youth, Ukrainian students, Ukrainian scouting movement and finally the Ukrainian people need? This is the order in which the Fatherland will vote, and we urge it to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u52	Thank you. The word is given to Venedic Irina Valentinovna. After that, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, and then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u53	Dear friends, the Servant of the People always represents the interests of the people, and you can be sure of that by the laws that are passed and by the budget. And if you open a decision that was proposed by the opposition platform for life, there's a change to the state budget for 2019, that's the first. Secondly, there are some general declaration rules: review of legislation. If the Constitutional Court’s decision is not being implemented, it is necessary to appeal to the court to comply with these decisions, and that is all. And to set standards for changes in 2019 two weeks before the end of the year is, sorry, speculation and manipulation, really, people's needs. Because we're with the Chernobylers, we meet every day, and we're trying to solve these issues in real terms, not in the way you're offering us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u54	Thank you. The word for motive is given by Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. [[B in m in s a l in]] You were speaking from the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life." No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u55	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u56	There was no "Serve of the People." No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we will vote in favour of this decree because it includes two important bills for us that make life easier for small entrepreneurs and increase the limits for FOPs. Once again, we urge the profile committee to consider the determination to use Interpol by the Russian Federation. And, of course, we will support the decision to transpose the Plastic Act so that we can vote on it as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u58	Thank you. "Trust," motivated by Shahov. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u59	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, a group of MPs called "Trust". Dear colleagues, indeed, when there is a court decision, it must be done. There were many court decisions that were not executed at local level, and no one paid attention. See how people today suffer. We're talking about immigrants today, not just pensioners. A million 700,000 people are begging. According to Lugansk, Donetsk, and Crimea, today the budget has saved 100 billion dollars from the previous Reva regime. We forgot about the children of war, who were also promised to pay for them. Forgotten for the Afghans: 100,000 Afghans left today. The blacksmiths, who worked, fell from the bones that saved not only Ukraine but the whole world. And today, honourable colleagues, I must, once again, make decisions with a cold head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft regulation amending the agenda for the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2101-19). Please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:54:22]] For 259. Decision taken. It's been decided. Let's go to. Dear colleagues, there was a suggestion to consider, to change the order of affairs in today's order, and to now move the question to Plastic. Is there a denial? I can't hear you. Can we vote? You're insisting on a change in 226, right? Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, right? Proposal to change the order of the agenda. Please support and vote. [[11:55:19]] For 324 Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Law. I'm sorry. The Ukrainian Act "On State Recognition and Support of the Plastic National Scout Organization of Ukraine" with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 03.09.2019 (worked) (registration number 0976). The word is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u61	Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, adopted by Parliament on 30 May 2019, the Act "On State Recognition and Support of Plastics – National Scouting Organization of Ukraine" was not signed by the President of Ukraine in the proposed edition. And the President made his proposals on this bill. In particular, they referred to the legal approach that provides for the creation of advantages and privileges for the operation of only one organization, resulting in the risk of preventing the creation of further activities by other scout organizations. Moreover, he did not partially comply with the Basic Law of Ukraine. And there are these wishes about the provisions of the law regarding the mechanisms of State support for Plastics, because they did not partially agree with part two of article 95 of the Constitution of Ukraine and did not take into account article 7 of the Ukrainian Budget Code the principle of the independence of Ukraine's budgetary system, which is guaranteed by the right of state authorities, the authorities of self-government in accordance with legislation to determine the direction of use of budgetary resources. Thus, the president returned to work. I understand the committee's been working on it. And I think that, given these proposals, this bill can be supported in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u62	Thank you. The word is given to the head of the committee of Kozemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u63	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! To implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to finalize the Ukrainian Law on State Recognition and Support of the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, a working group was set up on the committee, comprising representatives of the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports. Joint efforts by the members of the working group have been developed. The Law, which was supported by the Committee and is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is being elaborated. During the process, the title of the law was changed to a more unifying name: the recognition of plastic movement and the characteristics of the State policy of supporting plastic (scoutian) movement. Excluded standards that conflict with legislation and violate the principles of equality of public organizations. From now on, the law applies to both plastic and Girl Scouts. The question of recognition of the historical contribution of Plast is reflected in the preamble. Article 1 adds the definition of scouting, plastic, (scoutish) method, a plastic (scout) educational program. The law provides for the development of executive authorities and local self - government programs for children and young people, taking into account the offers of plastic (scoutish) public associations. It is also stipulated that executive authorities and local authorities provide material, financial, informational support for the activities of plastic (scoutish) public organizations. The approval of state and local budgets may include support costs for programs, projects aimed at achieving a (scoutish) educational program. The law is in agreement with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. The Committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a re-examination of the Ukrainian Act on State Recognition and Support of the Plastic National Scout Organization of Ukraine, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine (No. 0976) for a full re-entry into the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, all the paperwork has been taken into account, right? I propose to put it to a vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption after the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Law on State Recognition and Support of Plastics, the National Scout Organization of Ukraine, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 03.09.2019 (registration number 0976). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:00:58]] For 316 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 215, "Response Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 27, "Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 20, "Trust" – 16, "non-factional" – 9. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a 30-minute recess is announced, until 12:30. Please don't be late. Heads of factions, please gather in the office for a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-17-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, could I have your attention for a moment? Dear colleagues, we have a rather tense situation today within the walls of the Supreme Council, beyond it. There's an offer from all the factions and the MPs, and I think they'll agree with it now to hold an agrarian committee meeting. I ask the head and members of the committee to meet on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The meeting is attended by the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, invited to be chaired by factions, heads or co-heads, without additional colleagues wishing to participate, with all due respect. Because we're going to turn this from a work meeting back into chaotic phenomena. [[B in m in s a l in]] No amendments will be considered. There will be no revision. It's an organizational question. In this regard, I propose that the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be closed in half an hour. Does everyone have this format? Continued work at 4:00. Dear colleagues, please gather on the third floor, please.
