ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Colleagues, come into the hall. Let's show the members of the government that there are more of us. Ready, colleagues? I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:03:45]] 308 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Before we move on to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to report that a statement from two factions, "the opposition block" and "the rebirth" have come to the fore. They're replacing the break for the performance. I invite you to Igor Shurma's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u2	Good afternoon! Igor Šurma. I'm talking to the government: please stop your "decisions," stop it. I'm going to the government: stop your "decisions." I am addressing you because you have all taken responsibility for the Ministry of Health. And now, please, listen to the Ministry of Health. Stop making the decisions, please. I'm wasting my time. Listen up, listen up, listen up! On May 17, you voted in favour of the Transplant Act. All members of the various factions asked: Do not make a decision to introduce it on January 1, 2019, because 30 legal acts must be adopted. No, you decided to vote. They took responsibility for it, put it on the Cabinet of Ministers. The documents were prepared by the Ministry of Health. From May 1 to January 1, no legal act was prepared. Not one. This means that you are inactive and are irresponsible toward the Ukrainian people. Moreover, since January 1, this law has halted the operation of the old law, and the new law has not worked. No one's done anything for two months. Yesterday you and Kabmin did the following thing: in one minute you voted in favour of a new bill that continues to be due on January 1. You haven't seen the text and you don't know what it's about. There were nine changes to the law you voted for, so he was inequitable. Moreover, your mission to the Prime Minister's Office to have Rosenco present or someone from the Ministry sitting on the committee is not being carried out. We re-adopted since January 1st. And who will be responsible if this bill does not work again? It was entrusted to the person who gave you the electoral code: "This is cancer, they're all going to die." You'll all go to the polls with that slogan. So this man, the Prime Minister sent out, sent so far to those who were ill, that he didn't agree to any budget program. Today, 2,000 scientists working in health care do not receive wages. Mr. Reva, they don't get paid for two months! You should know that. What's more, you have to understand that yesterday, when you voted for those bills, there was a fake. There's Mr. Suhevich, he wasn't there, voted the one sitting next to him. And there were such people, both Mr. and Mr. Floodsky. They are not to blame, but they are to blame for those who voted alongside them. And this law is falsified. Questions. I'm asking you 10 more seconds. Andrew Volodymyrovich, 30 seconds. Another question I wanted to raise. It's not enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u4	Not only did Linchevski fail to work with the oncaughts, but he doesn't agree with the budget programs, he holds documents for a contract with the person who saves people's lives every day, Todurowa. Mr. Rosenko, you promised me in public, there's the answer, "I'll take control of your question." Do you know the answer to your question? You're not respected in the Ministry by zero. I was brought in yesterday, they answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u5	Thank you. The next statement came from the factions: from the Radical Party faction and the Fatherland -- they're also ready to take a break from the rostrum. And from two factions to a word, Oleg Lazko is invited. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We're calling on the government not to continue the contract to Naftogazu's head. Yesterday, the Naftogazu government signed a contract with him and doubled his salary. A country where millions of people count every penny to pay for a utility station, the head of Naftogazu Kobolev receives more than 5 million dollars each month. And then the bonuses for the Stockholm Arbitration decision, which has not yet become effective, that Ukraine has not yet received any money to the state budget, the Naftogazu management has already paid a bonus of 45 million euros. One billion 400 million dollars in exchange for the money. I am addressing President Prashenko, Prime Minister Groysman, to the government. Please tell me, what kind of world corporation pays off such cosmic bonuses and bonuses to hired managers? Give me an example in the world. Where is it issued that a government official hired by a government company write down billions of bonuses in a country where millions of poor people are living? We think it's the looting of Ukrainian funds. We're asking the government to meet immediately with one question: to commit Naftogazu leadership to return one and a half billion dollars of the prize they illegally wrote. We demand that Dusty, the government of conscience and responsibility. Perhaps you do not know how Ukrainians live? I'll tell you. People can barely make ends meet to pay for the utility. What do they pay the utility for? For Naftogazu's leadership to write out billions of prizes? And in order for the government to close their eyes and pretend that there's no such thing as stealing during total poverty. I appeal to your conscience, if it still exists, to all members of the government personally. Assemble to a government meeting today, after a parliamentary day, with one question: Kobolev, give back one and a half billion dollars of the prizes you illegally received. Put that money back in the budget. If you don't do that, we're going to go to the court and ask them to block the accounts of Kobolev and his deputies, because they've already taken those billions of dollars off-shore. One is a mother in Liechtenstein, the other is a woman in America. The money was stolen from the Ukrainians. Where's the naboo? Where are the anti-corruption workers? Why do you keep your eyes closed to the fact that billions are being taken off to the Ukrainians and taken off? That's what's real to you. whether there is a fight against corruption in Ukraine. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Neither of you went out and said that Kobolev was robbing the Ukrainians, neither of you went out or said that it was unfair, unfair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u7	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u8	Neither of you got up at a government meeting or raised that question. I'm addressing every member of the government: where is your conscience, where is your responsibility, where is your morale to the Ukrainians, where you're sitting in that bed? Either you make an order, or I'll put you all in jail for what you're doing right now. The spring will come. I'll plant them all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u9	So let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. I would like to welcome the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Welcome, colleagues. And I would like to report that today, from the Cabinet of Ministers, we are invited to speak with the Minister of Social Policy, Andriy Alexiyovich Reva. Please. Then questions from factions and questions from national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished colleagues members of the government, the honourable ones present! I hope, given the previous speech, that this is not my last word in this room before we're all going to be put down. For more than 20 years, housing subsidies have been the main mechanism for providing social protection to the population at the cost of housing services and which has proved effective in terms of price increases and tariffs. Subsidies have changed and improved on a number of occasions, taking into account time requirements. In 2018, substantial changes were made in the allocation of housing subsidies, including the criteria for providing this type of State support to increase efficiency and addressability. To date, housing subsidies are supporting households that are unable to pay services without the help of the State. Since July 1, 2018, an electronic register of recipients of subsidies has been introduced, making their assignment process more transparent and accessible to public control, and the Ministry of Justice has received a tool to analyse the characteristics of the subsidized households and to prepare the relevant changes and adjustments for the program. Since January last year, the funding mechanism has also been changed. For the first time in 25 years, clearing calculations between the budget and the utility companies were cut. Since then, benefits and subsidies have been granted to businesses -- housing and utility providers exclusively in cash form. Not an exception to 2019. It was since January 1st that the amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act have taken effect, which stated in article 11 that as of January 1, 2019 housing subsidies are paid to the consumer in cash in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So the housing subsidy mechanism has changed dramatically. If the budget had previously paid directly to businesses, these funds would now have to be paid to our citizens, consumers. In line with this decision, the introduction of a payment is made in a step by step. In particular, since January 1, 2019, subsidies have been provided in cash to those households who are seeking it for the first time. Since May 2019, grants will be made in cash to all households that will receive them during a non-smoking period. And it's also planned to start granting cash-based housing-communal benefits. So since October 19th, the money form will cover everyone without the exception of the recipients of the benefits and housing subsidies. Since the money subsidy is a housing-communal aid, it is important that citizens' money is directed to pay for these services. The government had therefore developed a mechanism for the purpose of using the budget for grants. It should be noted that the mechanism does not change the housing subsidies rules, the size of the aid is still dependent on only two factors: the size of expenditures on residential services and the income of citizens. Only the payout algorithm changes. Subsidies in cash-free form are funded at the central level. The amount of subsidies is credited directly to the personal accounts of the recipients of subsidies, from which the costs are directed towards the payment of housing and utility services, from which the costs of the bank are then paid. The bank reports the recalculated costs to the grant recipient by sending an SMS message. If the family used energy efficiently, it will be able to use the remainder of the cost of the saved housing subsidy, which was created on June 1st at the expense of its own judgment, that is to say, to monetaryize or transfer the card at any bank in the country. The administration of a rather complex mechanism will be carried out by Savings Bank, which has the experience of making other social payments and has a fairly complex network of offices -- about 4,000 and 35,000 employees -- and different ways of informing recipients. The mechanism's information relationship between the Stock Exchange and the housing grant recipient, apart from SMS messages, provides for the possibility of turning a citizen to the branch of the authorized bank, for the recipient of the housing grant to his personal office on the official site of the authorized bank, and for the provision of information and clarification services to the operators of the same bank's call centre. It's worth noting that SMS messages to the recipients of the housing grant are free of charge. For information on any issue related to the assignment of housing subsidies, recipients can still apply to structural units for social protection. For information on the services consumed, the sums charged, the size of the debt or overpayment, citizens will contact the managers of apartment buildings, the associations of the owners of the apartment building, and the public service providers. I note that such a mechanism will ensure the targeted use of housing and utility budget costs and will also contribute to efficient energy consumption, as it will encourage recipients to consume services economically in order to make use of the residual subsidies for their own needs. At the same time, the Government adopted Cabinet Regulation No.62 at its meeting on 6 February 2019, amending the Housing Grants Regulation and determining the arrangements for granting subsidies to the population for cash-based housing and utility services. The monetization of subsidies has become a logical continuation of systemic steps towards reforming housing, energy and the social sphere. Subsidies who formed the grant by January 2019 will receive cash for February already in March. Various ways of paying the citizens of these funds are foreseen, so the cost saved by efficient resource consumption will immediately remain with consumers. The cash form is applied to recipients who are assigned a subsidy for the current heating period, starting in October-December 2018. As of February 20th, 19th, attention! – the cash grant will be paid to 3 million 378 000 807 households, and already in March 2019 they will receive cash in the amount of the February grant they have been granted, on the average it will be 681 bracelets, and I'll point out that this is the average. The subsidies are individual in nature: from zero to 24,000, where we have subsidies that will get that amount in the Kharkiv region. So everyone gets an individual sum, and it's going to be different. They will receive similar payments by the end of the heating season: in April, in March and in May, in April 2019. Cash payments of housing subsidies will be made by the bodies of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to those who receive pensions, which is 2 million 323 thousand 78 households, or about 70 percent of all recipients. And it's going to be paid in the same way that pensions are paid: either the recalculation of pension funds in authorized banks, or the payment of pension funds. or payment through the post office, including delivery home. In doing so, grants will be made at the same time as pension payments to pensioners with different information. Persons who do not receive pensions, which is 1 million 55,000 729 households, will be able to obtain cash after 12 March of this year in any Savings department as a cash transfer through the internal state payment system, a system of urgent transfers of "Quick Money"; or current accounts in the Stock Exchange company at any convenient time. That means we don't all have to go to the Savings Department on March 12th. From March 12th to the end of the month, every day citizens can come to the station peacefully, present a passport and an identification number - lists in all the savings offices there are - and can quietly receive these costs. In total, 5 billion 663 million 211 thousand 195 dollars and 29 copies will be sent to secure the payment of grants by cash in March, and the Ministry of Social Policy will be responsible for the provision of 29 copies at the expense of a separate national programme, the main cost manager of which is the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. The housing subsidy mechanism provides that citizens have to control their own consumption of residential services and full-time payments, rather than the amount of compulsory payments that they have previously paid. That is, they receive the full bill, and they will have to pay for it at the expense of subsidies and their own, which were already compulsory. In order to inform each recipient of the innovation, a personal message is provided to each recipient to the postal address indicating the amount of the grant, as well as the way in which the pensioners are paid, or the need to contact the Savings Department for those who do not receive a pension. In addition, instructions will be given on the use of housing subsidies and on the need to pay for services in a timely manner, since the availability of debt will make it impossible to allocate a subsidy for the next period. In order to ensure the implementation of the relevant order, an information relationship has been established between the structural units of social protection, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the Savings Association in electronic form. Thus, during March, April and May of this year, two systems of monetary subsidies to the population, namely, cash-free and cash, will function in parallel, allowing for an objective assessment of the effectiveness of each of them in order to make an informed decision on the further use of the listed social support mechanisms in the future. In particular, I would like to inform and inform the people's deputies that, on 1 March, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's October 2017 Retirement Act, i.e. the pension reform, the first system census begins according to the rules of this law. A total of 10 million pension accounts out of the 11.4 million pension accounts in Ukraine are counted. Among those who are not eligible are military pensioners who have been promoted since 1 January 2019. It is not possible to calculate the pension that has been assigned in the last two years, where the basic salary calculation is higher than the one from which the revaluations are made. Everyone else gets counted. The recalculation will be done again by the formula approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It provides for two coefficients: the inflation rate of the previous year and the wage growth rate of the previous year as well. 50 percent of these figures get confused and output the rate at which the pension is to be recalculated. Over the past year, inflation in Ukraine has been 9.8 per cent, half will be 4.9 per cent, and 24 per cent of Ukraine's average wage increase in the previous year is 12.25 per cent. When we put these coefficients together and bring them to an integer, we're going to get a $1.17 coefficient to calculate pensions. This means that the whole pension will be raised by 17 percent. Is that a lot or a lot? In October 17th, the pension bill gave an average of 561 bracelets. That doesn't mean that every person gets 561 bracelets, that's the average, because each person gets a personal allowance according to their own salary and insurance. This year, the estimate will provide about 255 dollars of the allowance for each pension. But once again, it's going to depend on individual indicators. In total, a 17 - percent pension may increase the pension to 8 million 100,000 pensioners. About 2 million of those who receive a pension today have a basic pension rate below the subsistence minimum. And among these 2 million 800,000 are those who have full insurance, that is, 30 years old women and 35 years old men, by the age of 11, 20 years and 25, but those who have very low wages during work. That's how people are going to be paid once in March/April in the amount of $2,410, because at the age of 15-16, these people were frozen. If we take the index of consumer prices, the coefficient of 1.61, and multiply by their base pension of 1 thousand 497, we're going to get this exact figure of 2 thousand 410. The cost of this payment is the over-planned revenue from the blurry of "eurons."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u11	Please, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u12	I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for his initiative in the State Budget Act, and I would like to say that the cost of blurring the Eurobonds goes to pension indexation. And I want to thank the Supreme Council for the laws that have been passed regarding the blurry of "eurobes." It is through this resource that people receive these funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to questions to the government. And I'm asking you to sign up for MP groups and factions first. And then we will have the opportunity to ask questions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Please, Victor Halasyuk, your question. Oleg Laszko is given the right to ask questions. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for Mr. Reva's Minister of Social Policy. You just told me how much government and the President are doing to provide subsidies. Please give an answer to the inhabitants of the town of Vyshgrad, Valentina Aleksivni, invalidity and group, the widow of the Chernobylites. She's got a pension of 2,000 bucks. She was paid for a utility bill of 4,500. How will she get paid for this payment? Please give an answer to the resident of Vishgrad: Ludmila Vasilovna Dove, the widow of the Chernobylites. She's got an apartment of 52 square feet. She was paid 4,500 for a utility. And Mrs. Dolinsky has 53 square feet of apartment. Both of these widows have two-bedroom apartments. When they retired, they received four and a half thousand dollars per utility. Give them an answer, how will they pay them where to find them to pay these space tariffs, where do they get the money?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u15	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, I ask you very much to give me these materials, and then I will give you and these women an answer on how to pay for these tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we now have questions for the government, questions, not the exchange of pins. Please, now from the People's Front the question is asked by the Bondar People's Deputy. Please, Mr. Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u17	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. I have a very big request for representatives of the Ministry of Defense. Brochure. They've set up a 48-bedroom building, already, as far as I can tell, an out-of-the-board boiler room that's covered in flesh, and it's not working at the moment. I'm asking you to take control, really in the 19th year, to start and complete the construction of this 48-bedroom house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u18	Please respond to the Deputy Defence Minister
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. Today's proper procedures are the winning firm, the contracts and the jobs, in principle, started, the boiler is out. And we're going to take control of this issue, and we're going to inform you quarterly about the state of construction of this building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. And I would like to ask you a question right now. We've got questions coming out of place. We have questions from around here. Thank you very much. And please turn on Mr. Dudenkov's microphone and give us the right to ask questions from the Opposition Block. Thank you all very much for meeting the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u21	Thank you. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy because he spent 15 minutes of his speech on subsidies. But before I ask you a question, I'd like to say to the citizens: subsidies are being allocated, but consumption is decreasing. If at the age of 11. In the 13th year, there were 11 cubic meters, they dropped to 4.5 cubic meters for heating; for gas stoves, from 9.8 meters cubic to 3.3 meters cubic. In fact, it's the limit to man's physical existence. You're talking about the allocation of subsidies now, but physically people can't use the amount of natural gas. I didn't realize it was people who probably don't wash, don't eat. I have a question. On another occasion, I read in the news that Kabmin had again reduced his consumption rate by 10 percent. For whom do you predict these standards of consumption? Why are you pursuing the stated policy of community genocide? Your policy has led to the fact that the debt is now 50 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u22	Thank you. Please respond to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u23	Dear People's Deputies, well, I wouldn't tell you who we have, who doesn't wash. You don't have to judge everyone by one case. As far as consumption is concerned. I want to remind you that when there were 11 cubic meters of gas per square meter of consumption, about 500 million euros of money was washed away on that money. Because never in life did people consume 11 cubic meters of gas per square metre. And since there was no gas accounting, the rest of the gas that was burned into the population was sold to commercial structures that paid the full cost. And the difference was in the pocket of very famous and important people, perhaps even people you might know. Now, with regard to the consumption standards that the government has set today. The government has set consumption standards for households that do not have counters. And they don't have counters because 325 national deputies voted at the end of 2017, in nine days, on transferring individual counters to 3 years. And the fact that they are now destroying the population, the people, including, unfortunately, the common merit. So it's about these standards. Today, the social standard is 3.3, and the government at the last meeting set the consumption rate at 3.28. So we're closing down completely the consumption rate that the government gave people. And they don't have to pay any extra. And the last. In the 16th year, if you remember, we were argued that the subsidy system doesn't encourage people to consume energy. They opened the blocks and vented the air warmly, as if they had not been granted a subsidy. So I want to say that there are no such cases today, because consumption standards today and social standards are brought into line with the actual standards that people use. If we're 16 years old, we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u24	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u25	Billions of dollars were written off in the 16th. On the 17th, on the 8, on the 18th, on the 5.5. And now we're going to see what we're going to have left over after the heating season. Therefore, there is no need to generalize or to say things that do not match reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u26	Thank you for your clarification. And please ask the self-help faction. Victoria Vojcitsky, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u27	Victoria Vojticka, Self-Help Unit. I have two questions. The first is about continuing the topic of gas consumption. You know very well this story about how we see pinballs between lies and the government when liars cancel the government's decision in court. Then again, liars go to the courts and increase consumption rates from 3 to 9 meters [3 to 9 m] per square metre. And I have a very simple question: how long is this going to go on, and what are we going to tell people? Can you explain to them what standards to pay for? That's the first question. The second question. Who advised you to transfer responsibility, and the main one is the financial burden, for installing the counters on Naftogaz? Already we, gas consumers, have paid for it when we paid for the payment of bribes, in a tariff in which it was already included. What do you suggest people pay twice? Since we already paid when we were paying for the slips and now we're paying for Naftogazu? And how.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u28	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u29	I mean, Mrs. Victoria, if we really want to help people, do one simple thing. Your colleague introduced a bill that was passed by the Supreme Council and postponed counting until the 21st year. Make a change: By January 1, 2020, let the counters be installed. And then they'll never go to court again, because people are actually going to pay them by the counter. It's very simple. As far as pay is concerned. It is necessary to pay according to the standards established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As far as our actions are concerned. At the next government meeting, we're going to consider a set of steps to set up order in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u30	Thank you. Naftogaz, counters, Mr. Reva. Mr. Reva!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u31	As far as the metering is concerned. The mechanism is proposed as follows. Make Naftogaz mandatory and provide for Naftogazu's financial assets to set up the counters. And then Naftogaz will charge, not the population, but the people who have already received money from the population -- from fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u32	Thank you. And, please, the next question is from the Peter Dust Block faction, Alexy Honcharenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u33	Thank you. I have the next question. In the past two weeks, I have traveled all the north of the Plains: Balta, Saurán, Podilski, Kodima, and so on. And people ask one question, well, in principle, one of the most important questions people ask is the price of milk, which today is just over there 5, 5, 10, 5. 20 is something that simply does nothing — neither the work that people invest nor the price of even a bottle of water. And I have the next question for the government. I'd like to hear what programs the government is going to implement this year to help the peasant -- the one who's holding the big cattle, who's actually doing the work today. And the second. What else can be done that can be added to the programs that are available to cost the refrigeration equipment, perhaps the cooperatives create in villages where people can store it so that the buyers do not hold their throats? What can be done about direct access to factories and so on, and so forth? An extremely important question. I want to hear the government's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u34	Please respond to the deputy. Acting Minister of Agrarian Politics Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u35	Thank you so much for asking. As you know, we have been running support programmes for the APC sector since last year, including the livestock sector. In doing so, the funds are allocated both to keeping large cattle and to supporting cooperation. All of these programs continue in the same scope in 2019. In fact, in answer to your question, our job is to get these programs implemented and the costs are going to end up, let's say, users, directly small micro-producers, including milk, in the extent that they are envisioned by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. When it comes to your question about processing. Yes, indeed, this is another aspect that needs to be supported and that is set for 2019. We have increased support, including farming, through a program that provides partial compensation for the cost of equipment for storage, processing of products, including for cooperatives: agricultural, dairy, and gardening cooperatives. And here are the small producers, joining in such cooperatives, who can use these funds and receive partial compensation from the State for equipment, including milk storage, for its primary processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u36	Thank you, thank you. And the next question is, please, Alexy Rybchin of the Motherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u37	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear government officials, you're not stupid people, and you understand perfectly that for two months there are grants, and there are 2400 pensions, and there's a "Peter's Thousand" in the region where it's financed, including from the state budget, is a pre-election campaign and a voter bribe. And when it comes to changing powers, people who sign illegals, I don't know, both in the Treasury and in the Ministry of Finance, sign illegal decisions under the issuance of unverified subsidies, under misunderstood subscribers, with non-existent subscribers, will answer. The question to Mr. Reva, who was a reporter at large, I think should be released, and the relevant decision has been registered for failing to work with the movers, for failing to work on the subsidies, for failing to work on the pension deficit, for working with the benefits. Answer the country as a whole, please, the questions asked by Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko: What to do with people who account for 3,000, a grant of 300, a pension of 1.5 thousand? Are they less likely to eat, burn wood, or freeze in their homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u38	Please, Mr. Reva, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin to answer, and then I will pass on the word of Andrew Alexiyovich. First, all the initiatives proposed today by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, are entirely within the framework of the current legislation of Ukraine. It is the Ukrainian Gas Market Act, which you approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine here, in this room, that it is clearly stated that since the first number of the current year, subsidies should be issued in a monetary form. This is the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the government is implementing today. And if you look at the logic of reforming the subsidy system that we started not today, but four more years, raise all my interviews in four years, I've always said that the final stage of reforming the subsidy system should be the monetaryization of the subsidy system when a person actually gets the funds, and with these costs, it's definitely going to pay for housing services, and the part that he can save can be used for his own needs. People have an incentive, on the one hand, to carry out normal energy conservation in their homes and to obtain real resources for it. And about retirement. So I want to say to you: The Supreme Council of Ukraine has determined that all the costs of clearing Euronomist cars are directed to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. It was the initiative of the President of Ukraine, but you voted for it and you decided. And so to accuse the government today of paying for this extra pension, it's wrong. Then bring in the Fatherland faction, be honest with the people, from the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u40	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u41	Introduce a draft decision and forbid the government to increase pensions in the country today, if that's what you think is appropriate. But I think if we've got a real resource today from filling the Pension Fund at the expense of Euronomers, we don't have the right to hold this resource today until the presidential election is over, while politicians are recorded in the presidential election. There's a resource.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. And, of course, now is Reva's answer, because there was a question for him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u43	Well, Paul Valeriyovich gave most of the answer. I'm the only one who wants to add that the strongest scream is "keep the thief" knows who. Part six of article 64 of the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine: "It is forbidden to carry out a pre-election campaign accompanied by the provision of money to voters or free of charge or on the tax terms of goods, services, jobs, securities, loans, lottery tickets. Such pre-election agitation or giving money to voters or free of charge or under the conditions of payment of goods, services, work, securities, credits, lottery tickets accompanied by calls or proposals to vote or not to vote in favour of a particular candidate or to mention his name shall be considered a bribe of the electorate referred to in paragraph 1 of the third part of Article 56 of this Act." What's interesting is that the offer to vote for a candidate who promises to lower the tariffs twice -- a promise -- is not a bribe for the electorate? I would like to hear an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u44	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, government officials, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there was a question -- there was an answer. I address both the government and the deputies to love each other, especially on the first day of spring. Please, the next question. National MP Shahov presents "The will of the people" questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u45	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear government officials, I have not once invited you to my home in Lugansk to see how people live. Today, the Lugansks all in peaceful Ukraine demand that the government go to Lugansk on those thin-drom roads that have remained since the dawn of today's snow, the first number of March. [[B in m in s a l in]] March, I'm sorry! The other one. Please, I'm asking all government officials to come to the station-Lugan crossing, where 15,000 people are standing every day. Yesterday 40 people passed out. Third. The air can be cut with a knife today! Ecology is lacking, cancer is now an epidemic. Next. Water is most expensive throughout the country in Luhansk and is not found in taps. And on March 8th, miners can't even buy a flower today either to their daughter or to their wife. Please tell me when the government will pay attention to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u47	When is the government going to turn its "view" on people today and start working for the people of Ukraine? And most importantly, give an answer when the government leaves for Luhansk. And also, please do an audit of all the jobs that Governor Garbus did, and punish that billions of dollars have been spent, and today all this money has gone into the sand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u48	Emelian, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u49	Yeah. Thank you, Your Honourable People's Deputy. There's a short fact about the roads. Thanks to your support and support for this hall, we have a road fund. Lugansk is financed by the full cost of taxpayers. Moreover, together with our partners from the European Union, we are now developing a separate aid package for East Ukraine to rebuild this infrastructure. As for me personally, this winter I traveled all the roads of Lugansk and Donetskina on a Moscow-free territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u50	And please, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has the same respect for the inhabitants of all areas, but with special support and affection for the inhabitants of those areas, some of which are occupied by the Russian aggressor — the inhabitants of Donetskina, Luhanskina, and the occupied and annexed Crimea. We have special attention to Luhanskian infrastructure. And, you know, you have repeatedly addressed your questions both to the Cabinet of Ministers in general and to the Prime Minister himself, and he has responded to your petitions. In the Luhansk region, in virtually all ministries, we have budgetary assignments that will be used, of course, under control, including deputies elected from Lugansk. On the matter of the exit of the Cabinet of Ministers in the Luhansk region. We will present this proposal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who, today on his way out, has not been practicing travel meetings, but obviously, if this decision is approved, we will meet with you in Lugansk, discuss all the issues that concern people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u52	Thank you. And a final question from the factions. From "The Rebirth Party" Shipko Andry Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u53	Good afternoon! Welcome to all of March 1st, personally women, soon March 8th, I wish you were happy, loved and healthy! But I have a question for Mr. Omelian's Minister of Infrastructure. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, you've traveled through Donetskina and Luhanščina, and I invite you to take one state road, P73 Dnipro-Nikopol, 120 kilometers, there is no road at all, just a direction. And that's the road people go to the hospital, they go at all. I am speaking on behalf of 350,000 people in the city of Nicopol, the city of Pochrov, the city of Marganza Nicopolsky and the district of Tomakow. In the past year, tender procedures were conducted, the order was determined -- it's all there, it's even started repairs, it's been repaired for a mile and a half. I ask you to take personal control, because there will be no such road at all, and these people will have to go to Dnipro through the Zaporez region. I'm asking you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u54	Thank you, distinguished national deputies. As for the financing of the Dniprov region. This year, we have an allocation from the road fund of 1 billion 200 dollars per road of strategic importance to Dnipro Kyiv. In addition, the area received a subsidy of 35 percent from the road fund on roads of local importance. I would like to thank Mr. Resnichenko's commanding officer for the fact that, in fact, this area of the road is a priority. And I'm convinced that once we increase the financing of the road sector, we'll be able to produce a completely different quality result. Nevertheless, the goal of the government remains the same: to rebuild all roads between district centres by 2022 and to give new quality to the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u55	Thank you. So, colleagues, here's a question from the national MPs. Who intends to ask questions to the government, please hold the record and please sign in. It's a jellyfish, isn't it? Please, Oleg Meduntary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u56	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Mr. Secretary of Social Policy, you spoke very well today about what will happen to us and what happened to the subsidies, what will happen to the pensioners. I'd like to touch again on the subject of subsidies. There is one problem in this regulation that regulates the granting of subsidies. This applies to registered citizens whose income is not available, and it is not possible to get them out of their homes. I very much ask that the government urgently amend this regulation and allow commissions on the ground in such cases to grant subsidies on a case-by-case basis for each household. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u57	Dear national deputy Medunica, we are studying all the proposals, generalizing. And at the end of the heating season, we're going to review this position in accordance with the practice that's been made, with the suggestions, the observations that exist in its implementation. Please, pass, we will also consider your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u58	Thank you. Shipko Andri Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u59	Please pass the word to my colleague Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u60	Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u61	Thank you. I'm going to start, I take it, from a rhetorical question to a government. What can people who are now paid more than they are paid, whether by the State or by pensions, or sometimes by wages? What should such people do? Today it is the same question for all. But I also want to ask if the government has a strategy for what to do with debt. I am confident that they will continue to grow. Today, we have access to figures that are about fifty-five billion already in residential debt. What will the government do if it is a hundred billion, one hundred and fifty billion, and this, according to all, is not far off? Is there any strategy that we're going to do with all the housing and utilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u62	Who Will Answer? Colleagues, do not interfere with the government’s dialogue with the hall. Teeth. Please make your question clear so that it is answered correctly. 30 seconds, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u63	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I was more specific than ever. Today the debt for the HKG, already according to our information that we see in the government, is 55 billion. What will you do if you have 100 or 150 billion? Because we can see that this number goes up every day. Is there a government strategy? And what do you say to people who already have big debts, how do you get out of these debts? And what will the State do? Because today, before the elections, tens of billions go to pay social benefits. What are we going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u64	Please, Mr. Hennaday. And stop blocking the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that we share debts for housing services and debt for gas. If I divide it, I'll tell you that today, debt for utilities is 16 billion. 55 billion, if you have it, please. Well, I think you'll break it down, and you'll see that there's gas -- it's supply of direct gas to the population, and there's residential services. And please don't confuse these things. What's going on with the residential services. There's an absolute order that happens every year. During the heating season, debt from utilities increases, and then during the inter-heating period, it decreases. Last year's debt. The cost of housing services was 93 per cent. This year it is about 88 percent. As the cost of services has simply increased and the amount of money directly in this area has increased, so the amount of debt has also increased. But today, if you take both payment of subsidies on time and monetaryisation, it's primarily the execution of financial discipline from the state. Because if previously the company’s clearing accounts were waiting for three months, we are now directly counting on people to be on time, to receive monthly monetary subsidies, and people can immediately pay their utilities. With regard to the payment of services to municipal people who do not receive subsidies, the level of their accounts today is warm, water and utilities at 88 percent. And I want to thank these people separately who are paying enough utilities today. But on the other hand, today we're offering the path to energy efficiency through the "heat credit," through the Energy Efficiency Fund, and so to reduce and not ask to influence the cost of gas, but to influence the cost of the accounts that they get because of energy efficiency. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u66	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u67	Please pass the word to Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u69	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm again addressing Mr. Paul Rosenck. You promised me an answer, and I'll remind you. [[audio recording broadcast]] I don't know what you mean and where you sent someone, and yesterday the answer came from the MOH. Please don't write, because Suprun had a degree in college, so it is; as the second passport was, so it is. You've taken responsibility. Why are Todurov's papers on the moon? He's been through all the special checks, you either don't take him, or you take him to work. A person goes into surgery every day. What are you doing pulling the wool and making a circus out of it? I'm asking, why isn't the contract signed?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u70	Well, you can see that. You can see that the government is completely keeping its promises — what it gives to people and what it gives to you. I promised you you'd get an answer, you got an answer from the Ministry of Health in the way they thought you needed it. The Deputy Minister of Health will now give you the answer in oral form.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u71	Please speak. Microphone's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u72	Paul Covtonjak, deputy minister. Dear Mr. Igor, the contract with the director of the Heart Institute is now in operation and according to current legislation will be signed. We're about to prepare the points of the contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u73	Please, Buglak Yuri Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u74	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Vitko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u75	Dear Ukrainians, a respected government! I'd like to tell you that today the gas oligarchs in Poltavska are conducting genocide. They're sending all of us Ukrainians three letters, and these three letters are gas. In February, T.O.T. Poltawaz Shop cynically violated the Cabinet of Ministers' decision to shut down a children's facility in Kosmanovka from gas and heating. The children spent a month without heat. Poltawaz also shut down seven Tereshkovske OTG objects, including two schools, a kindergarten, two FAPs, an ambulance, with no debt in these objects. I ask you to take control of these issues. There are no foreign children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u76	Please, Viacheslav Anatolyovich Kirilenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u77	Mr. People's Deputy Vitko, we share your concern as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Our legislation and the Constitution prohibits any action by economic or entrepreneurial entities to limit the viability of social infrastructure objects, including the exclusion of those objects that constitute social significance and affect the livelihood of the population. So please direct an appropriate parliamentary request under the Rules and we will give all necessary instructions to the people responsible for this direction to determine how legitimate the actions were when they shut down social infrastructure. We feel that such actions are unacceptable because they are against the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Chicken Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u79	Good afternoon, distinguished members of the government and a colleague. I have a question for Mr. Petuhov from the Ministry of Justice and the representative of the MOH. We all know that the raiders have taken over Odessa’s National Medical University for several months now. He was captured by a black registrar. Teachers and students will not get paid and scholarships for these months. So yesterday, the government decided on a reorganization that could help get out of this crisis situation. The MoH has appointed an extermination commission, but the Justice Department does not register the head of the liquidation commission, thus blocking the outcome of the crisis. I have a question: why is the Ministry of Justice busy?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u80	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u81	A position that actually allows the raiders — former representatives of the Party of the Regions — to control the illegal state institution of the Odessa National Medical University? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u82	Please turn on the microphone. Petuhov, yes. Petuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u83	Paul Covtonjak, deputy minister. I'm going to start answering that question. First, I fully agree with your assessment of the situation. Today, both students and teachers of the Odessa Meduniversity have been held hostage. Regrettably, people who are authorized to produce adequate financial documents and to be able to pay salaries and scholarships are unable to do so. And we don't get documents properly prepared. As a result, an emergency but completely legal and effective decision was made by the government on Wednesday to reorganize the university in order to unlock the situation. Literally in a very short time, in yesterday’s day, most of the paper work on the preparation of the necessary acts was done. The government works as a team here. And I think we're going to get to the bottom of this. There's a huge risk that there's going to be court decisions again, there's going to be new attempts to block this situation, so we have literally a few days to quickly form this government decision, quickly make all the financial payments, and continue to settle this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u84	Turn on Petuhov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. In fact, we work as a single team, and unfortunately, the raiders use the right to appeal to the court to block the possibility of a registration. That is why the Ministry of Justice is very active in ensuring that registrants do not abuse their rights, and in the case of a court case, it represents the interests of the Cabinet of Ministers. Accordingly, we, working together with the Ministry of Health, will be able to unlock the situation before there will be repeated illegal appeals to any authorities or courts in order to continue to block this situation. Thank you for your attention to this difficult question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u86	Thank you. Jonah’s Mary gives Hope’s word. Please, Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u87	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Yesterday the government supported a government committee from humanitarian policy to finally adopt the Council with the support of cinematography, which was effectively blocked in the fall. I have a question: why was there no decision to finance the creation of new Ukrainian films on the line in the fall when this council was formed? Because under the Act of Support for Cinematography, adopted at 17, such powers are handed over to the Council from the State Support for Cinematography created by Kabmin. The composition of this council was chosen in the fall - and so far, today on March 1. I have a question. This is the Ministry of Economics, is it the Cubans? Why is it that the money in the budget is on the movie, but we can't use that money? I'm asking and I'm asking the government to unlock this issue. And if an official does not like the name of someone in this council, it is his personal problems, and the state should not suffer. Because we brag about the movie, and then we don't make it, it's a movie, it's been going on for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u88	Indeed, all appropriate procedures for electing members of the appropriate council have been carried out. A document was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Under the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, all documents are agreed upon by the central executive authorities. Indeed, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine has put forward an appropriate draft decree and order for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And indeed, there were observations by the central executive authorities regarding, including the personal composition of this committee. But, you said correctly, yesterday at a meeting of the government committee, this is the second time, the corresponding draft decision was made by the Ukrainian Ministry of Culture, it was fully approved yesterday, the government committee supported it. And I hope that at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the composition of the relevant council will be approved. This means that after this council can announce a new funding competition for cinematographic works that will be carried out at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. So once again, at the next government meeting, I hope that this decision will be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Niysporenko gives the floor to the question of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u90	You know, after the Minister of Social Policy's report, especially after he answered my question, it seems that our government is living in such a virtual reality. He's now saying that everything is fine, about the monetaryization of the corresponding subsidy. Where were you in the 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th? And you have in your coalition, the Coalition Agreement, a monetaryization of this subsidy. Is this not an indirect form of voter bribery during the pre-election campaign? But as for the substance of the issue and the substance of the subsidies. What's not true is that your policy actually leads to an increase in debt. Over 55 billion dollars is already owed to the population for residential services. As far as the amount of subsidies is concerned, it is also decreasing. If in 2017 it was about a thousand dollars, now it's 713 dollars. If the number of subsidies in 2017 is almost 7 million households, now 6.5 million households. You're reducing the amount of subsidies and the amount of subsidies you're getting, whatever you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u91	30 seconds, please. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u92	Dear National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u93	Mr. Reva, I'm sorry. I'm giving you 30 seconds to finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u94	And it's not my data, it's the data of the State Department. And when you say they're not true, you better read this report out to people, and they'll find you the right words, the answer you've been taking for 15 minutes of air time for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u95	Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u96	Dear People's Deputies, manipulation is half-true, but half-truth is always a lie. When you talk about the average grant of 713 bracelets and refer to the data of the Statekombt, please look at the month that this figure is and compare this figure correctly with the months that these data are for. This is the October of 2018. If you'd listened carefully to my 15-minute speech, you'd have heard another figure that today's average subsidy in Ukraine is 1 000 681 bracelets, and that's also official data, you can get it absolutely legal. So let's not do any political insinuation during the election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u97	And Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u98	I would also like to add from the government that in the 14th, 15th and beyond, in the coming years, the governments of Ukraine were dealing with the situation and the negative legacy that came to us and the whole country from the Party of Regions, which is now called the Opposition Block. I'm going to remind everyone that they left the entire country 128 thousand dollars in cash, and not just billions, but millions of subsidies and any salary payments, pensions, social assistance in the 14th, 15th years, not at all, because the treasury was stolen and empty. That's the first one. The other one. The implementation of Ukrainian legislation is not a pre-election campaign. The laws that provide for the payment of pensions, their indexation, the provision of social assistance, the monetaryization of subsidies are carried out by the government in a planned manner, regardless of who is floating here in this Hall to the Presidents. And the last. Before you speak, you need to learn to read the figures correctly, not to manipulate them in the interests of your political election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u99	Guys, I'm going to give you a line. And the next question will be the final question. I'm asking you to get ready. Sevrukov is handing Timothy over. And, unfortunately, colleagues, that's what we're done with. Now the first one is the replica. Debt one minute. And then Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u100	But you, dear ones, are afraid of my saying, you did not call my name. I'll tell you, the numbers you said, you're also manipulating that data. If you're looking at correspondent accounts, maybe I'd like to talk to you about what there are periods of coming, and there are periods of budget spending. As for subsidies, I will continue. You're the one who cancelled the scheme for the continuation of the population's housing and utility bills over the 12-month period. In the Coalition Agreement, you said that we are moving to European accounting principles. But in this population, without having a European income level, you canceled this 12-year credit period, so this debt. And if you're putting it all on the forerunners, get out of here! You'll be 10 and 20 years old to improve your life. You'll all be in love with some predecessors. Why are you sitting here? What are you doing here? You've been sitting for five years!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u101	Colleagues, we've had a bit of a misunderstanding. Indeed, Sevrukov does not say a word to anyone. Turn on the microphone. That's the final question. Sevrukov. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u102	Thank you. In fact, Sevrukov gives the floor to Deputy Honcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u103	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u104	Thank you. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Eusebiusz Kistion. Volodymyr Eusebiusovich, first of all, I want to thank you, I raised here, at the Supreme Council meeting, the question of the Balta Podilski road and personal communication with you. Finally, a tender has been announced. We can see that there's already been a movement on this issue. This is very important, for it is the road that connects the two largest cities of northern Eden, on the one hand, and this road is simply a “road of life ” because it connects the two parts of the hospital district. And for example, people in Delhi today, where, God forbid, something will happen to the heart, and because of medical reform, we have opened up a heart surgery department in the Baltic, and there's only 25 kilometers, but today they're going an hour and a half. So first of all, I want to thank you for having moved the issue out of place, and second of all, I want to ask you to keep this issue under personal control until work is done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u105	Kistion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u106	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for appreciating our work. I'd like to refocus our attention that from the first days of our government's work the question of rebuilding Ukrainian roads was one of the priorities. I would like to say that, among those, the amount of Ukrainian roads that are 170,000 miles [170,000 km], we have inherited 95 percent of the road that needs repair. I would like to thank, using this opportunity, the people's deputies who have systematically approached and supported the government's initiative to form a road fund. And I am absolutely convinced that such a planned systemic approach to restoring Ukrainian infrastructure, including roads, is the right way, this is the way to the European Union, to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u107	Thank you. And the final word of the reporter, Revi Andriy Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u108	Dear People's Deputies, I want to agree with you that our government has really cancelled many of the schemes that have been introduced by your contemporaries-contemporaries in the previous period. But with regard to social protection of people and the 12-month deadline for granting subsidies, this rule is left in the current legislation. I invite you to take a closer look at the Grants Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u109	Thank you. And thank you to the members of the government for participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We wish you success, a common victory for the benefit of the Ukrainians. The year of questions to the government is over, and we're moving on to asking questions. And I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare to listen to requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u110	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, before you go to the polls, please allow me to make the following announcement. A statement came before the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the national deputy of Victoria Ptašnik, who reports that Mrs. Ptašnik's card did not work during the vote in favour of Bill 8328 on Thursday, February 28, and she asks for her vote in favour. And now. Dear colleagues, we have 256 questions. Now, too, we have come to the fore of deputies with questions, Mrs. Hopko and Mrs. Mrs. Hopko, Mrs. Hopko. The MPs came with the question, Will there be a section of dissatisfied deputies today? We have 256 questions. If we can get them out in time, we're going to continue the session for 15 minutes in order to have that opportunity, now we're going to say no. So the questions came: National Deputy Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the provision of a fire truck to the Jointed Regional Society of the Zitomir Region. Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the provision of material assistance to residents of the village of Luka Zitomir district, the Zitomir district of Melnichenko Lesi Volodymirski for the treatment of his son Danil in 2010. Anatoly Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister on the solution to the problem of life-sustainment of disabled children for Dushen's muscular dystrophy. Anatolya Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister for bringing the amount of educational and medical subsidies for the 19th year for the Losovian City-United Territorial Society in line with actual needs. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Authorized President of the Rights of the Child, the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice, the State Fiscal Service on the need to take measures to protect the rights of a minor child. Eugene Daeda to the Prime Minister on the first-line measures to overcome the massive crisis on the PAT Odeski Prystowska. Olesia Long to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing on the introduction of the procedure for disconnection of individual dwellings from central heating networks in accordance with the requirements of the Law. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve the state's "Affordable Medicines" programme. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the settlement of the issue of insufficient medical personnel for the signing of medical declarations. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister for the accumulation of major poverty problems in Ukraine. Michael Bondar to the Secretary of Defense to provide the necessary documents to establish the status of the participant in the hostilities of Lavrenczuk Alexandre and his family as a family of the deceased participant in the hostilities. Michael Bondar to the minister of culture for the restoration of St. Joseph’s temple in the village of Podgorka of the Bródí district of Lviv. Helen Sotnik to the Odessa City Head for information on the provision of construction conditions and restrictions on certain objects in the city of Odessa. Alexander Kirsza to the Prime Minister for the financing of the renovation of the Schoolmaster's Building, located in Kharkiv, in the village of the village of Petihatka. Alexander Kirsza to Kharkiv city head for repairing the Astronomical Road in Kharkiv. Vladislav Buharjev to the Director of the Territorial Administration of the State Bureau of Investigation, located in Poltava, head of the Sumsk Observatories, Prosecutor of the Sumsk Region, Head of the General Administration of the National Police in the Sumskii Region, Head of the U.S. government of the Sumsk Region, Head of the Sumsk Guard for the non-admission of election laws in the Sumsk region during the next election of the President of Ukraine. Vladislav Buhareva, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, Prime Minister, on the need to allocate additional funds from the State budget of Ukraine for 2019 to improve the socio-economic development of the newly created city of Trieste, a united district community in the Suma region. Sergey Melnika to the head of the Ukrainian Railway Association for the creation of a proper service for passengers in the Hmelnicki railway station. Sergey Melnika to the Prime Minister for changes to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of July 26, 1996, No. 832 "To increase the size of State aid to individual categories of citizens". Valérie Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the status of enforcement of court decisions guaranteed by the State for the benefit of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister on the stability of the financial and economic position of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company and the repayment of the debt on payment of wages. Anatoly Kuzmenka to the head of the State Service of Ukraine, with exceptional situations in dealing with the issue of providing the city of Alexandria of Kirovograd with firefighting techniques capable of putting out fires in the high buildings of the region. Igor Shurma to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for bringing to justice officials responsible for the damage to the state as a result of public procurement of medical supplies and medical supplies through international organizations. Igor Shurma to the head of the State Audit Service, the head of the Court of Auditors, for the purpose of verifying the eligibility of missions abroad to perform the duties of the Minister of Health and Deputys during 2018. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister for the restoration of women's right to retirement at the age of 55. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the critical situation in the area of housing and utilities. John Baloga to the head of the State Water Agency regarding the condition of the Verke Canal in the city of Berogowa Zakartá district. Vasil Nimchenk to the head of the National Police, Minister of Internal Affairs in connection with illegal and unfounded detention, arrest, and criminal responsibility of the deputized Police Department of the Podilski UPP NP in Kiev, Melnikovova Vitalia Gudzenka to the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine for the Capital Repair of Road Areas of State Value R-18 (Zitomir-Populna-Squira-Volodarka-Staviste). Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds (subsidies) in 2019 for the capital repair of roads of utility in the Tarsatian region of Kiev. Arturo Martovicki and Igor Shurma to the Minister of Social Policy on the need to ensure the full functioning of the Single Information Database on Internally Moved Persons and to take steps to implement the recommendations of the Court of Auditors based on an audit of the efficiency of the use of public budget funds to provide monthly targeted assistance to internally displaced persons. Maxim Burbak to the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the conduct of the audit of the Montenegrin City Council and subordinate utilities from August 18th to February 19th. Olega Ljaška to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General for the Offence of Criminal Case in respect of the Head of NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine" Koboljeva, on the basis of the illegal billing, paid a premium of 45 million dollars. Euro (1 billion) 395 million and the withdrawal of these funds abroad and the demand for return to the Koboljev and other directors of the company of these funds to the State Budget of Ukraine. Oleg Láška to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the use of urgent measures in connection with the detention and immediate criminal prosecution of a member of the death squad of oligar Peter Diminsky. Vladimir Litvin to the Prime Minister, Acting Minister of Agrarian Policy, Minister of Interior, Attorney General, Head of Hmelnicka obljudija, Head of the Žitomir Observatija for the immediate return of indebtedness to the villagers of the village of Berestovka, Veresna, Dubrovka, Zabara, Zirka, Mokre, Zakrynica in the Žitomir region for the milk delivered to the SVC "First National Production Cooperative". Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Zitomir Observatories, Head of the Yemeni Regional State Administration for the Preservation of the position of laboratory at the Jabluunec Hospital of the Emilchin Region. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities on a comprehensive analysis of the effectiveness of cancelling tariff coefficients on electricity for legal persons. Andrija Lopushanski to the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, the Ministry of Energy and the coal industry of Ukraine, on the need to delimit the balance of domestic (façade) gas networks for housing. Andrija Lopushanski, until he was temporarily serving as Minister of Health, Minister of Social Affairs, Head of the Old Sambrian District Ministry for the need for urgent treatment and medical care at the expense of budgetary resources, and for material assistance. Sergia Labazuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG, the Minister of Finance, the National Commission on Energy and Municipal Services, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine on rising prices for gas and other municipal services for the population. Sergia Labazuk to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Affairs, the Committee of Ministers, excuse me, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance for the Financing of Regional Development Areas. Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, for the violation of citizens' rights in the field of land relations. Sergey Rybalka to the prosecutor of the Cherka district for improper investigation of criminal conduct. Sergey Rybalka to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting Head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, heads of the Dnipropetrov Observance for the Cancellation of Agricultural Lands, which are not on time transferred to the balance of the Prescepinian United Territorial Society of the Dnipropetrovsk Region. Sergey Dunaev to the Minister of Justice on the debt of salaries to employees of the municipal firm Lysicánskvodokal in the city of Lysicánsk Lugansk. Irina Konstanovic to the Prime Minister for the provision of State funding for the treatment of children with orthopaedic diseases. Jacob Besbah to the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Agency for Forest Resources, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, the National Police, the Dniprov City Council, the Kyiv Authority, the Kyiv City Administration, the Bilogrod Rural Council, the Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev, regarding the improper provision of residential and utility services. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney-General, on the functioning of illegal gaming establishments under the cover of state lotterys, the absence of effective measures by law enforcement authorities to stop their illegal activities and to bring to justice the responsibility of the shadow gaming business organizers. Roman Macola under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service, Head of the General Administration of the DFS in the Hmélník Region, on the right to collect a fixed property tax. Romana Macola, under the temporary responsibility of the Ministry of Health, Director of the State Institution, Scientific and Practical Medical Centre of Child Cardiology and Cardiosurgery of the Ministry of Health, head of the Hmelnicka Observatories for the immediate conduct of surgery on the heart of a two-year-old child. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the need to issue an order from the CMU for the transfer of part of the building on Lutka Street, building 24 in Novovolinsk City to district utility property. Igor Guza to the Minister of Ecology on the possibility of disbursing funds from the State Environmental Protection Fund to complete the construction of a garbage dump near the village of Stara Lišna in the Ivanichov district of Volin Region. Victor Vuka to the Prime Minister on regulatory regulation of advisory bodies - "project reform offices" in ministries in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Igor Kotwiecki to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Health, for the provision of necessary therapy for patients with muscle dystrophy. Alexander Dubinin to the Prime Minister on the inactivity of the Cabinet of Ministers as part of the implementation of the rules of the Natural Gas Commercial Accounting Act and the development of procedures for establishing or compensating costs for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas counters for consumers. Mikoli Fedoruka to the Prime Minister for baseless refusals to grant construction work permits. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Poltava District State Administration for the purchase of 1628 technology at an overpriced price. Victor Krivenk is in charge of the government of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine regarding the filing of a civil suit with law enforcement authorities in criminal proceedings. Edward Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of TOT, Odessa Observatories, Odessa Odessa, the Odessa City Council on the consideration of the collective appeal of thirty-five internally displaced persons living in Odessa to find out and resolve all the situations that have arisen in recent years, as well as to ensure the full protection and protection of constitutional rights. Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need to protect the interests of children with special educational needs, to prevent the abolition of the school "Cremenian District Special School of Public Education". Julia Yooffe to the Prime Minister on the need for effective protection of electricity consumers' rights, addressing the issues that have arisen in the Luhansk region in the process of launching a new electricity market model. The Gennady of Krivoschi to the Prime Minister on the treatment of patients with oncology of the inhabitants of the region of Mironów and Boguslav. Alexia Hotcharenko to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association “National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine” on the official response to the reasons for not signing a contract between the National Social Broadcasting Company of Ukraine and the implementation of MARUV – as a participant in the Euro-2019 Song Competition, which was awarded this right as a result of the victory in the National Election Final. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister on the settlement of compensation for the loss of property in the radioactively polluted territory of Žitomirščina. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the issue of payment of heating services. Andrija Šinkovič and Alexandre Gerega are headed by the Head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastra in the Hmelnicki district, the head of the Bilogiri district government of the Hmelnicki district, the first deputy head of the Theophilus district administration, the first deputy head of the Krasilov district government, the head of the Isiaslav district government of the Hmelnicki district government to solve the problem of ensuring the communities of Bilogirski, Isiaslavski, Krasilovsky and Theofipolski districts by civil pastures. Alexander Marchenka to the Deputy Prime Minister for Regional Development for information on counters. Alexander Kodola’s temporary duty to the minister of health as to the need to provide hearing aid to children with cochlear implants. Taras Shepherd to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration regarding the admission of the Hero of Ukraine to Victor Gurniak. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Head of State Treasury, Minister of Justice to resolve the issue of repayment of debts for decisions of courts guaranteed by the State. Vasil Janickýk, who was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, was involved in the financing of a program for the treatment of citizens abroad. Andrija Galchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the right of women to retire at 55 years of age without any reduction in pension. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the need for State control over price regulation for certification and certification of seafarers. Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Affairs on the problem of the collection and payment of monetary subsidies. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers for making changes to CMC Decision No.413 of April 03, 6th. Sergia Dunaev to First Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Development, Head of the Police, Henprocuror, First Deputy Head of the Luhansk Observatories for the non-admission of the destruction of the city-based industrial enterprise of Lisicansk, the involvement of officials in the fact of acquisition of state property in a particularly large way with a view to its further reselling to third parties, and the abuse of power by officials of the Ukraine's Mine Economic Development. Vladislav Sevrukov to Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Health Minister to ensure the necessary treatment for patients with Duchen’s muscle dystrophy and to take appropriate measures to improve access to treatment. Jury Bublika to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau for the Accidental Status of Road Traffic in Poltavska and Kotelevsk Region, which resulted from the lack of repair or inequity of its implementation in the 18th year, and the alleged abuse by officials of the area in determining the performers of these works and budgeting. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Administration for the capital repair of the asphalt roof on the street Milutenko, 9 in the right - hand district of Kyiv. Andrija Illenka to head the Kyiv City Administration for the allocation of additional funds for the construction of the "B" campus of the public education school No.23 on Putivlska Street, 35 in the village of Bikovina of the right-wing district of Kiev. Vadima Sidorczuk, in line with the temporary responsibility of the minister of health to provide, in accordance with constitutional principles, free and uninterrupted medical care to citizens suffering from rare diseases. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister for amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Order of Ukraine of October 21, 95, No.848, "To simplify the way in which subsidies are granted to the population to compensate for the costs of residential services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid end-of-life fuel" in order to remove certain restrictions on the granting of the subsidies. Paul Rosenka. Excuse me, Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amending the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 28 March 2018 No. 214 "The manner and conditions of granting subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for payment of monetary compensation for living quarters for certain categories of persons who participated in hostilities in the territory of other States as well as members of their families". Paul Djublik to the minister of education on salaries for preschool workers. Paul Kishkar to the Attorney General regarding the failure to respond to human rights violations during the pretrial investigation. Jaroslava Markevich to the head of the Novovodolasian Village Council of the Kharkiv Region on the possible violation of state legislation, purchased by the Novovodolasa Village Council of the Novavolas region of the Kharkiv region. Jaroslava Markevich to the head of the Novovodolasian Village Council of the Kharkiv Region on the fact of the establishment of advertising facilities (baners) in the territory of the Novovodolasian Village Council of the Novovodolas region of the Kharkiv region. Boris Kozir to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the Taking of Personal Control of Criminal Investigation No.620191500000077 on the fact that the investigator has been duly falsified in criminal proceedings No.12018150050001801. Boris Kozir to the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General for the illegal registration of property for a complex of non-residential buildings on Michurin Street, 24-D in the village of the town-type Krive Lake of Mikolai district, and for the verification of the legality of the actions of the Chief of Registration Service of the Krivoozer District Authority of Bragar. Mikhail Golka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, CEO of the Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation, head of the right-wing district office in Kiev of the State Administration for the capital repair of inter-quartered passages and adjuvant areas on Kosmonaut Volkova Street in Kiev. Paul Dziblik to the Minister of Defense for the Financing of Military Commissioners Aunt Ostrichov to the minister of finance for removing obstacles to the customs of humanitarian aid. Aunt Ostrickov's duty to the Head of the State Fiscal Service to verify the legality of delays in the customs clearance of the goods of TV "Investkom" goods. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for taking appropriate steps to reconstruct and modernize the elevators in the residential buildings of the Darnitsky district of Kiev. Alexander Suprunenka to the Kyiv City Head for taking appropriate steps to rebuild and modernize the elevators in the Dniprov district of Kyiv. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs for refusing to provide information on the infrastructure project’s expertise on the construction of a bicycle route in Kiev. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, for the improper investigation of criminal conduct in the course of attacks on public activist Makarov Valentine. Sergija Rudika to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education and Science, Minister of Social Policy for the Promotion of Salaries (Employment) of Educators of Preschool, Out-of-school and Vocational (Professional and Technical) Education. Sergei Rudik to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economic Development, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Regional Development, Head of the State Statistics Service of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the correctness of the calculation of population (current and permanent) in the villages of Brezneka, Grand Jablounjka and Sunka, as well as in the whole region of the region of Czerkas region, and of not allowing the implementation of the project from the construction of CNAP in the framework of the implementation of the "U-LEAD with Europe" programme. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence, Prime Minister, Security and Defence Council, Head of the President's Administration, Head of the Board of Internal Affairs, Minister of Internal Affairs, Henprocuror, on the appropriateness of the management of state-owned enterprises in positions. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Head of the President's Administration for Cultural Action abroad. Petra Jurczynina to the Prime Minister for compensation to the inhabitants of the village of Pavlovka Kalinj district of Winnitsk for damaged property as a result of the explosions of munitions on September 26th 17th. Alexander Brigintz to the first deputy head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, head of the State Service of Ukraine in exceptional situations, head of the Thessaloniki District in Kiev State Administration, head of the Kiev City Administration on possible disregard for the rules of construction and security in the organization of the gas supply of an open over-the-board gas pipe of high pressure on the 20th Cherwood building on the street of the air carrier Antonov, 4th in the city of Kiev in the area of dense housing, park zone, direct proximity to the National Defence University of Ukraine, and other signs of possible illegal activity and corruption of DABI officials, public authorities and institutions. Sergia Vlasenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Director-General of the Ucroborprom State Concert on providing information on corruption equipment in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and on the involvement of enterprises belonging to the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, and his immediate environment. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can read more. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Well, we're not in the circus right now, we're in the parliament. Yuri Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture. Guys, I have a few more questions to finish, please, thank you very much. Thank you very much for the respect of the presiding officer, who sincerely reads all the questions I have to make. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the creation of an organizational committee at the national level, marking 150th anniversary of the birth of the Forest of Ukraine and reconstruction of the literary and memorial museum of the poet. Jury Pavlovnka to the Prime Minister, Secretary of the Czernovetske City Council, acting as head of the Czernovetske observatories for gross violation by the Montenegrin City Council of the rights of the child, failure to comply with the requirements of current legislation in part with the granting of status to children who have suffered as a result of military actions and armed conflict. Igor Popov to the temporary responsibility of the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the situation in the country with the provision of dialysis. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the state of the unique historical monument of the Dubenski (Tarakanavian) fort and its transfer to the community. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the system of training personnel for tourism. Alona Shkrum to the first deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is in charge of the evaluation of government officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alons Skrum to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for information on the implementation of employment standards for persons with disabilities of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and its local authorities for 2018. Sergey Leschchenka to the first deputy head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for construction work at the Ocean Mall Commercial Entertainment Centre. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, on the investigation into the actions of the head of the Mashew District State Administration of the Poltavian Region. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the clarification of a number of standards The procedure for assigning scientific names to scientific and scientific teachers. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the constitutional guarantees of pensions and social benefits to Ukrainian citizens from temporarily occupied territories. Jury Miroshnicka to Odessa District State Administration on the collective appeal of 35 families of internally displaced persons who are placed in improper conditions in the Odessa region. Jury Derevyanka to the Minister of Ecology, head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for the non-permissive environmental impact that could result in the construction of a 120-mW wind power station in the territory of the Borvatské poloniny, which is located in the territory of the Mižgirski, Volovetsk and Svalava districts of the Zakarpatsk Region, and is an environmental object of the international importance of the Emerald Network NoUA0000263. Jury Derevyanka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to provide information on the total number of vehicles imported into the customs territory of Ukraine that have been cleared in accordance with established legislation. Jury Berezi to the head of the Dnipropetrov district government for the allocation of road repair funds in the Dnipropetrovsk region. Yurya Bereza to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration for the updating of library books in Dnipropetrovsk. Ruslan Solvar to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of a road along the street of the Novosilka Makarov Region of Kiev. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of Social Affairs, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for not allowing the collapse of the roof of the House of the Faith Master and her disabled son, Group II Tsvetkov Mikoli. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister for an additional grant to maintain educational and health facilities for the budget of the city of Žmerinka. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Tivrov District Council of the Vinnitsk Region, head of the Tivrov district government of the Vinnitsk Region, head of the Vinnitsk district administration for the allocation of funds for the purchase of long-term items (computer and office equipment) for the Tivrovska CRL PNC. Alexander Nechayev to the Kiev City Head for a review of the MP's appeal for the return of property rights to the land in Kiev for the address of the Gemini Rasputin family. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister for the return of women to retirement at 55 years of age without a reduction in pension. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the management of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and HKG of Ukraine to meet with representatives of the public asset and deputy corps of the Bolgrad region to discuss the preservation of the Balgrad region as a single administrative and territorial unit in the process of administrative and territorial reform. Jury Levchenka to Minister of Education and Science, Director of the Independent Structural Unit of Kyiv Industrial College of the Kyiv National University of Construction and Architecture, Rector of the Kyiv National University of Construction and Architecture for the execution of court decisions and the non-admission of further illegal construction on the street of Ukraine, 6 in Kiev. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the establishment of order in an abandoned historical building on Sichov Sagittarius Street, 91 in Kiev, and the systematic inaction of local authorities leading to a fire in the building. Vladimir Parasuka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv Region Road Service, Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the O142001 Yavorov-Grushov road in the Javorov region of Lviv. Hanni Hopko to the Prime Minister about the inadmissibility of building a hydroelectric cascade in the Dniestrów Canyon and the need to remove mention of new GES in the Journal of the Hydropower Development Programme. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Minister of Culture, on bringing the technical documentation and re-registration of the name according to the functional purpose of the cleaning facilities of the city of Zbarž. Ruslan Demchak to the head of Nutzbank for changes to the "Instruction on how to open and close client accounts and correspondent accounts of resident and non-resident banks" and the clarification of the National Bank to Ukrainian banks on the mechanism for opening accounts for non-resident legal persons. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the Vinnick district government regarding the inclusion of active OTGs in the approval of the new Perspective Plan for the formation of the territorial communities of the Vinicki district. Groups of Nardepas (Rybčina, Gerasimov and others – only 9) to the Kiev City Head on the issue of naming the streets to the honor of Lubomir Guzar and Alexi Tihoi for the meetings of the commissions and the session. Igor Popov to the Odessa City Head, the head of the Odessa District Council on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister for the change to the list of institutions and institutions for education, health and social protection and jobs at which he is entitled to retirement for years. Andrea Shipka to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine on the use of measures to repair the roadway of state value T-04-32 Nicopol-Božedarovka. Borislava Rosenblata. Borislav Rosenblatt to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of an order for the provision of housing or monetary compensation for military personnel, as well as for members of their families who have been granted the status of internally displaced persons. Maria Ionova and Olga Cervakova to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Minister of Finance for Data Analysis and Recommendations on the Economic Purpose of Connecting the Village of the City of Warzel to the Beechani OTH. Robert Gorvati is under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health to ensure access to treatment for patients with Duchenne muscle dystrophy. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister to provide compensation for the purchase and installation of individual natural gas accounting devices for the population. And Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office, the State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, the Odessa District Public Administration, the Odessa City Council on the review of a collective appeal by residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa on water supply and water supply, as well as on the comprehensive protection of the rights of consumers. Dear colleagues, I have announced all requests from the Ukrainian national deputies who have now come to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have been registered in an appropriate manner. Also before the verdict came a statement from Mrs. Jurinec Oksana’s national deputy, who reported that the card did not work during the February 28th vote, her card failed and asked for her vote for the following bills: 8328 and 9553. We've got five minutes before the end of our job, until the break. And we do. We have several requests from the Ukrainian National Deputies for dissatisfaction with the answers that have come to their request to the authorities. Of the three national deputies present, there are. I'm continuing the session for a few minutes. And now I'm going to give a speech to these Ukrainian national deputies. These are the national deputies of Ukraine, Mrs. Hopko, Mr. Lechchenko and Mr. Vlasenko. Please, Hanna Gopko, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u111	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Almost four years ago, you and I passed the historic Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism. The main task of this law was to free Ukraine from Communist symbolism and propaganda. In line with this appointment and the symbolism of the Communist Party, it is a symbol of the Communist totalitarian regime, which is banned in Ukraine. The Communist Party must be banned by law on the basis of the legal conclusion of the Ministry of Justice and the decision of the court. But contrary to the law, the Communist Party of Ukraine continues to act legally. I asked the Minister of Justice to explain how this was possible and why the Ukrainian State could not enforce its own law. In July 2015, the Ministry of Justice approved a new legal conclusion on non-compliance by the Communist Party with the Act and asked the court to stop the Communist Party. In December 2015, the Kyiv District Administration concluded, effectively banning the activities of the Communist Party of Ukraine. However, according to Minister Paul Petrenko’s response to my request, the Communist Party has appealed to the Court of Appeal. And what does the Kyiv Appeals Authority do now? He has been wise to file an appeal for two years now, and in September 2017 he adopts a completely wrongful decision, simply stopping the conduct of the case from gaining legal power by a decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of 46 national deputies on the recognition of the anti-constitutional Law on Decommunisation. What's the Constitutional Court for? It's very simple, colleagues. Why is the Court of Appeal not fulfilling its direct duties and based on assumptions as to the quality of the future decisions of the Constitutional Court? Is it not because, according to some sources, the Communist Constitutional Court has already resolved all issues and prepared a criminal decision on the rehabilitation of the Communist Party and its participation in the 2019 parliamentary elections? I think after this disgraceful decision of the Constitutional Court on illegal enrichment, we can see another decision that will allow the Constitutional Court, the Communist Party, which is forbidden under the Decommunization Act, which we passed after the Dignity Revolution, to participate in these elections. Dear colleagues, it's not toys -- it's a matter of national security. There can and will never be Communist or Nazi parties in Ukraine. Minust, President, Parliament must make a loud statement with the involvement of the Supreme Council of Justice, the Ukrainian Security Service, to immediately bring to justice the responsibility of the judges who in the appeals office sabotage their direct duties and do not approve decisions, and to lift any attempts by the communist rematch. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Hanna. Please, the next speech is the National MP Vlasenko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, on January 17th of this year, I have made a parliamentary request to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration. By the end of December, I had obtained undeniable evidence, namely the truck declarations of trade in enterprises belonging to Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko with the Russian Federation during the war. So on December 3rd and 4th, when there was a state of war declared by Peter Prashenko, his businesses were officially trading with the aggressor country, paying money there, making money there. they got the goods out of there, and then they supported the aggressor country with the money. Instead, the President's Administration has failed to provide an answer as to whether they continue to trade with the Russian Federation on the day they receive the request of President Prashenko's company. However, this answer was given to me by an investigator-investigative journalist, Bigus, who published some shocking information a few days ago about not just trading with the Russian Federation any business not related to the defence industry, but that President Prashenko's environment, headed by the First Deputy Secretary of the RNBO Gladkovsky and his family, usurped a large part of the Ukrainian defence sector, that two 20-year-old boys in a totally unacceptable way run the defence sector of Ukraine today. At least an analysis of those negotiations, which were publicly available, shows the attitude of these people to the directors who provide for the security of our nation. And the phrase that they should be intimidated by the name of Gladkowski, and they should all be afraid and accept these guys, just shows the moral level of these people. When they call the Ukrainian society a herd, it also shows how these Moors in the powdery environment refer to the Ukrainian defence industry and the Ukrainian people as a whole. Today, my next MP's request was announced, which is already based on the Bihus investigation data. For some reason, knowing about how the President's Administration works, I expect that in a week or two, I will once again speak out of this rostrum and say that the President's Administration does not respond to how Prashenko and his environment are being exploited in war, how they control the whole field, how they sell Ukrainian armies worthlessly broken tri road equipment and 4 times more expensive than it costs, instead of building up the Armed Forces instead of implementing NATO standards in the Ukrainian army. So I want to finish my speech with the words: army, faith, language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u114	Please, the last speech is the national MP Sergey Vlasenko. Excuse me, National Deputy Sergei Leschenko, I've spoken to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u115	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian viewers, citizens, voters! Maybe this week, this is my last speech from the Chamber of Parliament, because me and my colleagues, Svetlana Zaleschuk and Mustafa Najem, have filed an application for an exit from the BPP faction and now they have the right under the Constitution to deprive us of our parliamentary powers. It's our principle of responding to these violent investigations into corruption and theft during war, as well as the repeal of the law on illegal enrichment by the hands of the Handicrafts of the COP. In my speech, I talk about what I have been doing in recent years, regularly associating with the Chinese, while conducting citizen receptions. In particular, we recently visited the mayor of Kiev, Klitka, with a group of more than 10. And this is about the story with the kindergarten on Dragomanova Street, the 1st, which was built by Kyivmishkbud. And that's property. Kyivmisqbud is the property of the Chinese, not the carpenters and the rest of the viewers. This is our communal property with you. So this garden is built, land leased to Accent Novotel for 15 years, ownership of gardens is their property as investors. It was put into service three years ago, but it still doesn't work. And this is the left bank, where overcrowding, where people can't go, because it's impossible to get into existing children's schools. And those that are built don't work. And we asked the mayor to intervene. Time goes by -- no reaction again. And it's not the only time we see a mayor like that, well, I'd say, untimely or no reaction at all. Another example of "Podal City Vintage." It's built right in the historic center of Kiev. Brutally on the land of the Blind Association, they build a line of work. Once again, everything is happening in public. There's no interference. Everything is done to make Kiev a waste dump, I don't even know, a waste, because these houses have no architectural, no aesthetic, no value, and that's all the profit and purpose of getting money out of the Kyiv land and from the Kyiv hills. Another case. I performed this week along with the victims who live in Kiev. The building is being built on Mechanics, 7b. Directly through the territory of the former Yellow Hospital, it is now called Alexander’s Hospital. It's a technique. Unfortunately, Bondar's parliamentary colleague, who has actually taken over and is now seducing the next cloud in the historic center of Kiev, is building without embarrassment. All of this is done in front of the eyes, I repeat, of a mayor who is not involved in these situations. When we get here, they're just hand-breeding. I'm addressing Mayor Kiev. You know, Mr. Vitalia, the next election won't win one round and it'll be very difficult for you. And the Chinese remember very well how they were treated in their problems. And we will continue to help the Chinese to solve their problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that immediately after the break, there will be a feature of the traditional performances of the National Deputies in the Miscellaneous. And that's why I'm asking everyone. Traditional according to the Rules. On Friday we have this feature. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see you're in a playful mood today, but that's not for me. Dear colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:45 a.m., we meet with you both. Yeah, sorry, we're meeting at 12:40. By 12:40, I'll call it a break. And if you want the national MPs to take part in the "Rose" section, I ask you to come back at 12:40. There were also questions about whether we would be considering amendments to the Language Law today. No, we'll move on to the amendments to the Language Act on Tuesday the next sessional week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u117	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I ask you to return to the Ukrainian National Assembly Hall. We continue our work after a break. And, as you know, on Friday, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we have time to take a break for the traditional speeches of Ukrainian national deputies under the heading "Variance" when MPs can actually express their political positions on various issues. I'm asking you to go back to the session room. Our break is over. And I now announce a recording of the country's distinguished national deputies under the heading "Craze." I'd like you to sign up for any colleagues who would like to join us now. Thank you, fellows of honor! And I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor, we ask you to begin our performances in the traditional Friday column of "Victory." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u118	Dear Ukrainians! The Lachka plan is to create 2 million jobs in Ukraine. This is an acceleration in economic growth from the current 3 percent of raw economic growth to 10 percent of economic growth per year. The Lachka plan is to invest $100 billion in the real sector of the Ukrainian economy. This is a real Ukrainian alternative to this shameful economic collapse plan that is being implemented by today's President and the government under the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund. If they continue to pursue that policy today, it will take Ukraine 100 years to reach Poland where the Poles are today. The flow of foreign investment into the Ukrainian economy is $2 billion a year. To get to the current level of investment in the Polish economy, we need 200 billion. 100 years to go to Poland if you agree with the policies of today's president, government and the International Monetary Fund. They tell stories that what they do is economic success, it's a miracle. But every wise Ukrainian sees the real results of their reforms: the inability to pay the utility bill at the expense of the pensions and wages we receive, the inability to provide for our own family. Instead, on the basis of artificial excesses in municipal tariffs and gas prices, authorities are pulling tens of billions of dollars out of our pockets with you to put them in the pockets of their supporters. Kobolev and his accelerants got almost a billion dollars of bonus money -- just think about it! – salary – 2 million dollars per month of one person, chief of Naftogazu, while the teacher and doctor in Ukraine receive 8-9 thousand dollars, university student of science – 8,000 dollars of wages and Koboljevo – 2 million dollars per month. For what? For the robbery of the Ukrainians. Therefore, the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, has registered the draft Decree on the return of 1.5 billion dollars to the budget, almost an amount of money illegally and unjustly paid to Chief Naftogaz. Lachka's plan is a real economic growth, it's investing in the Ukrainian economy and increasing the well-being of Ukrainians, and it's independence from the International Monetary Fund and any other foreign creditors, it's the real European future of Ukraine, not what the present government is artificially imposing on us: poverty, poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Your Honor, before the Presidium will there be questions about whether there will be further deliberation on drafts and amendments to drafts after the presentations? No, there will only be speeches by the Ukrainian National Deputies, after which we will conclude our session, and before the amendments to the language law, the bill, we will go through the next session Tuesday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, and we're moving on it. We're moving on it, according to the Rules. Please, for three minutes now, a distinguished colleague of the national MP, Andriy Lozový. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u120	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The spring has come, the bright day is getting longer than the dark night, we see the sun more often, the first snowfalls through. And it's like everything's supposed to be happy. But the Ukrainians are crying, the Ukrainians are suffering, the Ukrainians are howling from poverty, from poverty, from poverty, to poverty, to which the godless antihuman policy of today’s power has led a rich country like ours. The pediatrician’s doctor, number two at Ravenna District Children’s Hospital, who herself raises two children and cannot survive on a doctor’s salary, takes a vacation, and goes to Poland to pick up a midwife in the season. A student in the economics department, who with a red diploma can't know normal work, goes to Slovakia to work in a variety of jobs. She's crying. Last night, Oleg Lášk and I were in the Plains, crying to Galina Ivanovna of Goszcz, who lacked a pension to buy even the most needed medicine. The mother of group I in Gorokhov on Volina is crying. The nation’s pitiful help to this family does not give it the opportunity to rehabilitate her son, and he can walk, he wants to walk, he wants to live. Ukrainians want to live. What do we see today? By its actions, total corruption, including in the defence sphere, the destruction of Ukrainian medicine, which makes "detroital sanitation", a citizen of the United States of Suprun; unemployment, which we have the highest level of independence in all of our years, you have worked, respectable, not very respectable, until, in the 1990s, there was a better situation, more work in people than now that Ukrainians are actually dying out. And, sooner or later, the policies of the destruction of the Ukrainians must come to an end. And the policy of our team, the policy of our leader, Oleg Láška, who, unlike you, knows how people live, knows how to help them, and knows how to make order when you've caused a brothel in the country that was never there, is a policy for Ukrainians to become more and more, so that Ukrainians have jobs to pay their wages in order for Ukrainians to have a pension that they can live for, rather than survive, as today, to increase the social pay of people with disabilities, so that they can return the benefits to black people (there is Bill Láška, Moseschuk, and other colleagues – 4442). Give back the benefits to these people! They risked their lives, so few are left. And only a true leader, a national one, who knows the real life of people, does not live in an illusory world like you, orderly. His last name is Easy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u121	Thank you. My dear colleagues, my colleagues tell me that we have young students from the University of Wynnick on the guest balcony. We welcome you. [[Applause]] We are pleased to have guests in our Parliament today. And we want to give you a nice tour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine right now. We're continuing our performances now under the heading "Crazy." And the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mrs. Zarztko, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u122	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine, good afternoon, fellows of honor! The Radical Party faction, Valeria Zarzko. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party team takes a consistent state position. We always say that the energy dependency and energy security of our country is an integral part of this position, for they are the shortest way to a state entity and a strong, independent Ukraine. According to a course approved by Ukraine for the EU and NATO, an energy strategy has been approved that envisions a reform of the energy sector and a new electricity market. I will remind you that coal is an integral part of Ukraine’s energy market. The International Agency, an energy agency, predicts a stable demand for coal in the world for at least 10 years, and 25 percent of Europe’s electricity today comes from coal. The United States -- our strategic partner -- is resuscitating the coal sector, and only the government of Ukraine is burying the coal industry. Today, Ukraine lacks 6 million tons of coal a year, and the state spends billions of dollars a year to buy coal abroad: in Africa, in America, even in Russia and in Kazakhstan -- and tells us that there is no money to reform the coal industry in order to modernize the Ukrainian state, I emphasize, mines. These are thousands of people who work every day in overcrowding coal, and they work for the energy dependency of our country. But today, the state despises them and does everything to stimulate labour migration, so that Ukrainian skilled miners can go abroad to the same Poland, because here they do not see their future and see their children's future. That is why the Radical Party faction proposed an anti-crisis plan and an industrial reform package. Oleg Lazko always says he knows how to get the economy out of the crisis, how to boost the Ukrainian industry. We insist that our faction, our team will do everything to ensure that the Ukrainians here in their own country have a stable job, a decent salary, a decent pension, and a bright future for the children, that's what we're trying to do, and that's what we're going to talk about again and again, and work for it to be achieved in the shortest time possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u123	Next performance. Please, National Deputy John Sporish, we invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u124	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. First of all, I want to thank Irina Heratchenko, who has really welcomed today students of the best medical university on the balcony today. Because it's probably one of the best universities, because there's, in fact, a rector, Professor Frost, who's doing everything he can to make this university better in the country. By the way, I want to mark our foreign students. They're there today. A very large percentage is foreign, and today they are on the balcony. And I think it's really nice today that there's a university like this, and it's doing everything it can to make sure that our medical facilities have such fine specialists. Thank you. But not only should we think about higher education, we should also think about schools. You know, if we don't have secondary, middle-special education, then maybe higher education should also work with these, with higher education. Why? Because if we don't have lower specialists, if we don't have mechanics, if we don't have welders and stuff, I think it's going to be a big minus. And that's why our task, the people's deputies, is to do everything we can to make education flourish, to do it. to work all the institutions, because this is really the perspective of our students, our schools and our young people, who should lead us to Europe. First of all, I want to say that we're coming to spring today, and every farmer, every farm worker, has the question of planting it. Because agriculture today is a percentage of 20-30, it is possible to say that it is giving rise to gross production in our country. So I would very much like the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to that. Why? Because we can see that the dollar is falling. Today, the dollar is 26.9 and the oil, oil and lubricants. Today, the price of fertilizer is growing. It's going to be a very big negative for our farmers again, because they won't be able to sow at the right time. I think there should be control of everyone here. And I also want to say that (although today we had the Cabinet of Ministers) and some of our farms didn't get the payments they were supposed to get in December and last year, it's for reconstruction, for the construction of animal farms, for animal farming, and so on. I am very grateful that today the Cabinet of Ministers has pointed out that they have extended the term, and now in January-February they have the opportunity and the farms to obtain it. But the main thing is, I'm asking them to give you all the relevant documents at the right time, because the Cabinet of Ministers is really together today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u125	Please, 15 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u126	Along with the Ministry of Agro-Industry, he's doing everything he can to get these farmers whatever he wants. Finally, I think let's do it again: unite, all factions, work for our nation, not plough from the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u127	Thank you. And please welcome the national deputy, Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u128	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Students, don't go, I'll talk to you. It's a good thing that students from the country of the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine came today. I hope you'll -- you'll tell them that you want a future, that you're able to learn, to complete your studies, to work in Ukraine, to grow your career. And for change and progress, you want to lead the Ministry of Health. And you have to explain to them: how do we students understand that we've been studying for six years, we're going to the country, and then a person with secondary education from another state with another state's passport becomes a minister! Moreover, instead of helping them to get on their feet, they put sticks in their wheels. Well, you're friends with doctors, aren't you? How can you view sick people who cannot go abroad today? You know, a patient came to see you, you put him in a government program, and then they're in tents under the Ministry. What's more, your department chief tells you, and then you go to people, "They have cancer, they're all going to die." Do you understand? And instead of pulling him by the ears, because there's nothing more to pull him for, they say, "Go, go work with those who are sick." And he's gone, and he's gone so far that he's forgotten that today we have to agree on budget programmes. Today there are 19 research institutes and 17 universities. Over 2,000 scientists. Which one of you is going to want to do science? They don't get paid today because he didn't approve the program. Today, Minfine cannot allocate money. And what's more, I'm going to tell you that this person is doing everything he can to prevent you from communicating with the great scientists that Toddov is, and you know that. You can love him, not love him, but he saves lives every day. He won the contest. His team supported everything. He's been through 10 special tests. Anything you can cross. And I filed the papers. And according to the law, they have to take him to work during the month. And this guy, so totally, you know, walking in an Arafatique, the Lynch family, "they're all going to die" who says the moon holds documents and doesn't sign. So tell the President and the Prime Minister: we want to have a future, give us a normal minister and a team -- and we'll deal with the situation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u129	Please welcome National Deputy Kirsch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u130	Good afternoon! Alexander Kirsch, Kharkiv. In fact, there are two problems in Ukraine: Suprun and Naftogaz. So I'm talking about the second one of these troubles, because Naftogaz is already doing something that you can't even understand. To somehow take the money for their million prizes and their billion-dollar salary, or vice versa for a million-dollar salary and billions of bonuses, they came up with for Ukraine that normal air temperature is 20 degrees Celsius, and I don't know which Argentina they took this standard from. And if the actual temperature is less than 20 degrees Celsius, the population should pay Naphtogas at a higher rate, i.e. they think that if negative 20 is less than 40 degrees below the standard, and they should pay the population back, starting in December 15, the population should pay for not having plus 20, as in Argentina, where they took the average from, but minus 20. So we just solved the problem of the norms that they were always 3.3 and they were never 9.8, that 9.8 is an illegal invention of Naftogazu from the beginning, so they now came up with some mythical debt due to the fact that in Ukraine temperatures are less than 20 degrees. I want to ask people not to pay for such tariffs, at such elevated rates, they should pay you back. And when someone paid 9.8, the state has to return. And when someone pays for a higher rate, because there's some higher coefficient because the temperature in Ukraine is lower than 20 degrees, all of these payments are illegal, the more behind. And I'm going to go to the government to make an appropriate decision to prevent further abuse in the gas market. Another problem is what's happening in local transport, and the fact that Ukratrans Security doesn't perform its functions. She doesn't even know what the owner of the taxi is doing. And in Kharkiv, the inhabitants of the village of Pätihatka, with two routes, do not actually have any. Because instead of large buses on buses, there are small buses that are not working, and the second one, a footpath, does not walk at all. I'm going to Ukratrans Security and I get the answer that it's okay, and they're just writing out 300 fines, and that's all. Either way, we have to. Is that why we need Ukratrans security to leave everything as it is, all the way the owner wants a taxi, and sometimes fine them 300 bucks? Not 300,000, and 300 dollars they paid and they still do what they want. This is done in Ukraine by Ukratrans. Well, of course it's not as big a tragedy as what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u131	Please. Thank you. And the national deputy of Ukraine, Yuri Solovay, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u132	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. I am well aware that Ukraine is now in the midst of a sharp political struggle and a presidential campaign. This month, unfortunately, Parliament will not be able to adopt the decisions that our country needs. But sooner or later, the presidential campaign will end and we will have to go back to solving the most pressing problems facing the order of Ukrainian society today. In addition to the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament has been able to make a number of decisions over the past few years, I think very important and systemic decisions, but the main thrust is economic policy, unfortunately, remains completely unreformed in our country. We continue to rely on external resources and in exactly four years we have not made any decisions that would allow us to accumulate the resources that are in the middle of the country, are on the hands of people who would work for the development of the Ukrainian economy. Over the past four years, we have never approached the reform of the land market, and this does not allow huge investments in the Ukrainian economy, including Ukrainian citizens. Over the course of four years, we have unfortunately failed to reform the Tax Law on the Capital out of hand. We've talked a lot about the zero declaration and the need for funds, the legalization of funds into the Ukrainian economy. Regrettably, the bill does not reach Parliament and is not considered in the walls of Parliament. We talked about privatization, but as 3,000 enterprises remain in state property, so unfortunately, they remain. The only reform in which we have drawn close to a solution is pension reform. I want to remind you that a year ago, when the Ukrainian Parliament voted on pension reform, we approved the norm and what was actually a compromise between Parliament and the government, on the need for a mandatory accumulation of the pension system as of 1 January 2019. It's not just an opportunity to give a fair pension to citizens when they retire, it's hundreds of billions of dollars invested in the Ukrainian economy. Unfortunately, however, I have to say that Bill 6677 of the authors of more than 60 national deputies has never been considered by Parliament, which would have allowed the mandatory accumulation of the pension system to be launched. Therefore, as I speak from this rostrum, I am addressing Parliament’s leadership as one of the priorities of the day’s agenda after the end of the presidential campaign, Bill 6677 on mandatory introduction of the accumulated pension system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u133	15 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u134	on the mandatory introduction of a mandatory accumulation system as one of the key socio-economic reforms long awaited by the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u135	Thank you. And here comes the invitation of national deputy Sergei Rudik. Please, Mr. Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u136	Dear Ukrainians, yesterday Parliament voted on 17 legislative initiatives, three of which are ecological. It was a big ecological day. And it's an honor and a thank you to all colleagues who have supported the strategy of environmental policy by the 1930s, a series of bills that have to make it impossible or stop greenhouse gas emissions and other abominations into the atmosphere. The good day was from an ecological point of view. What is really going on today in places? I don't think only a deaf person has heard of the problems of braves and Smiles in this room today. So in addition to heat, roads, social problems, there are water and air problems in the city of Smylie. Last year, in June, the Party of Green Ukraine recorded unprecedented discharges into the Tismin River from the WaterGeo utility. The excess of substances that make this water unfit for use is catastrophic. Let me give you a few digits. Dependents are 4.5 times the norm. Nitroamonic, 11.5 times. Phosphate is at 2. The oil products are six times. We ask the city authorities what to do. They say, "We have to buy an airbender." What Is an Airbreathing? And this is the kind of thing that allows organisms to be revived to reproduce the normal flora that's actually struggling with these pests. How much money does he say he needs? 800,000 dollars. On November 7, last year, the government allocated the cost of airbreeding. Everyone in the performance told me, and in this "WaterGeo" we'll buy it in a month. We have today March 1st, the venerable duty of the city’s head, the honourable deputies to the executioner, where the airbender is? Do you think you will again be three and a half tons of dirt in the river this spring?Oh, my God! In the nearby Cherkas region, in Nechayevtka, in Hatchka, in Stepanka, fish died last year and may never be reproduced. Would you like more? I'll give you more. The problem with warmth, thanking God, the President, and many, many people who were involved, is partly solved. I'm not talking about cloudy prices right now, I'm talking about the fact that it's warm. But we have a TEC in Smilli that burns up a lot of it, especially the micro-district. So this TEC for 7 years is burning all this stuff with wood, 200 tons of wood in a relationship. The black was covered with air, black incandescent. It is a pity that there is no minister in this room and an executive responsibility for environmental inspection of Jacob. And that's what we'd hear. Please, Madam Chairman, take my speech as a request before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u137	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u138	Please accept my statement as a parliamentary request to the Minister of Ecology and to the responsible environmental inspection of Mr. Yakovlev. Get rid of the Spicy TEC, people can't take it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u139	I'd like to make a presentation by the People's Deputy Rudik as a matter of fact. And I would like to introduce you to the People's Deputy Victor Wolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u140	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear citizens, President Prašenk's speeches have long been ignored by the international community and are taking place in front of almost empty audiences, particularly at the UN General Assembly last week. The banal truth is that the great world policy respects the strong and zealous, those who have spirit and national dignity and are determined to defend the legitimate interests of their state. The one who fears to create discomfort in this world’s strength, defending the rights of his people, is afraid to remind the world’s leaders of the guarantees and commitments given to his country, is despised and exploited. Because the irritation of strategic partners is far more frightening than the suffering and anger of their own people. So why make such a president stand out in the midst of dozens of others? And the fact that Poroshenko is the president of the country who once had the third largest nuclear arsenal in the world, who is to blame that he himself is willing to turn into a traitorous oblivion about the conditions for Ukraine's nuclear disarmament under the Budapest Memorandum? Dustenko himself refuses to state from the international rostrums that Russia’s aggression against Ukraine is actually undermining the entire world regime of nonproliferation of nuclear weapons. The powder itself refuses to emphasize to the world’s leaders the signal they send to North Korea, Iran, and others who see the example of Ukraine that has given nuclear weapons and is now suffering from Russian aggression. The powder itself refuses to remind Europe and the world that without safeguards and international obligations to its country nuclear security is impossible in Europe and the world. The persistent disregard of the Budapest Memorandum of Dust is not randomness or stupidity, but willful action to please world leaders and not make them blush for their unfulfilled promises to Ukraine. The powder apparently entered into a conspiracy and made a commitment to silence the Budapest Memorandum, perhaps because it is a dependent weakling who is most afraid of the discontent and wrath of this powerful world, on which his personal destiny depends, and the fate of his billions of assets. Oleg Lazko faithfully observed: Dusty is a very poor negotiator, although he knows English well, and is not able to effectively defend Ukraine’s interests, national interests. Ukraine needs leaders capable of pursuing strong, effective policies. The time has come for government officials, not weak men and political conjunctors. Oleg Lachka's team is ready for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u141	Next talk, please, Leonid Jemetz. He has six minutes because his colleagues gave him their time from his faction. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u142	Good afternoon! Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Very often in recent times, we have heard that Parliament has become an empty place. I'll tell you, if you look at the sitting right now (you're obviously looking at it), you'll see that most of it is. Yes. Indeed, Parliament is now an empty place. There are 27 national deputies out of 400 with hooks. This means that at the moment the Ukrainian Parliament is unable to make any decisions, for I recall that it takes 226 votes, which is, in a mild sense, 10 times different from the number of deputies that are currently in Parliament. What should we do in this situation? How, well, if we can't convince them anymore, these people who struggle so hard to get into Parliament and then don't come here, how do they get them to do their duty to the Ukrainian people? Forced, because it is not their right to go to meetings of the Supreme Council and make decisions, it is their duty. Once again, 1, 10, 28 people's deputies cannot make any decisions, which requires 226. All right, we need to force them. They came up with fines. But I'll tell you the truth, I get a salary in accounting, I see that there are national MPs who in 5 years of Ukrainian Parliament's work never took that salary away, they don't need it, they don't need it, they don't need it, it's nothing, it doesn't scare them. We need to think of something more effective. I proposed Bill No. 10072 – to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, predicting that for a walk, i.e. for the absence of a national MP at his meeting twice or during a later meeting of the Supreme Council, such absence should be punished by administrative engagement in the form of public works. Now, I'm sure for those deputies whose fines it's not that scares them with a broom to drive them out to public work, to force them to do this for the Ukrainian people at least. It scares them, it makes them come to the walls of the Supreme Council, it makes them work here, it forces them to give a quorum here so that we can negotiate laws and adopt these laws for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. But we all understand very well that both fines and even public works will make them come here because they really don't scare these walkers, but they won't make them work effectively. We need to change the quality of the Ukrainian Parliament, and we can do this without temptation, not intimidation, we can do this the only way -- by changing the rules of the election of the Ukrainian people's deputies, and more simply by introducing open electoral lists, by canceling the corrupt mechanisms that these people who don't want to work, but want to have parliamentary immunity, they want to have access to the Ukrainian budget and to the formation of the Ukrainian Cabinet, by closing these loopholes -- through corruption, they have to come to the only legislative body: to cancel the majority component, to cancel the closed lists. Only open electoral lists will give us a quality composition of the future parliament. I'll tell you more, if we choose this Parliament next under the old law, and this happens literally in eight to nine months, the next Parliament will be even worse than this. There are many people in this Parliament who wanted to work, but in the next Parliament there will be more people who would buy a mandate and not even have any idea of working for the Ukrainian people, for themselves, for their oligarch -- yes, it will be their job, but not for the Ukrainian. Thus, laws that were needed by the Ukrainian people are difficult for us, and decisions are being made that lead to the repeal of the article on illicit wealth. Today, Ukraine is 10 steps away, and if you're right, five years back on the road to fighting corruption. Moreover, if we are not to fight corruption but to overcome it, the decisions made by the Constitutional Court stop us from doing so. Dear friends, let us remember that the election of the President and the election of the Parliament is a moment when the Ukrainian people can demonstrate to these icicles, to these people who are just hiding in the MP's step, to demonstrate that the Ukrainian people are giving their representatives to work. And the Ukrainian people won't let him steal his will for European civilized standards. Come to the presidential election, come to the parliamentary elections, say no to the missives, say no to the non-professionals, and select to the Ukrainian Parliament those who will really ensure the movement of the Ukrainian people, the movement of Ukraine to the European civilised light of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u143	Next performance. Olena Sotnik is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u144	Thank you for the opportunity to speak. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. First of all, I'd like to do a full analysis of what happened this week, because it was a sign. It was, first of all, a sign of the dynamics of growth and corruption in this country, in Ukraine in different environments, and especially, you know, in the defensive sphere, which is critical today for peace and for the future. Yes, my colleague has just mentioned that the abolished, indeed, key rule in fighting corruption is the rule of illicit wealth. I can tell you that this is actually going to destroy a system that's very difficult, under pressure, first of all external partners, under pressure of the ability to get a carless, trying to build. Today you can actually say, "Thank you all, everything is free." N.A.K., N.A.U.U. has no tool, no real tool for bringing responsibility to all those beautiful high-ranking people who have declared millions of dollars in their electronic declarations. All of them, I'm informing the citizens, today we can say exactly that, will no longer bear any responsibility for illicit wealth, because criminal law, it has no reverse power. This means that from the moment it began, the Constitutional Court's decision came into force, they're all actually innocent of looting the country, making billions of dollars of money on you, citizens of Ukraine. The other one. A scandal, a corruption scandal that erupted in the areas of defense. It was as if the Supreme Council had established a temporary commission of inquiry, to complement the existing Provisional Commission of Inquiry on the matter. But I can say there's another campaign in this area. Because as a minimum, there is a conflict of interest in this Temporary Investigation Commission. Let us be objective. Mr. Winnick, who is the head of the interim commission of inquiry, is part of the Peter Dustenk Block. All the figures of this scandal are in touch with the President. Will this Temporary Investigation Commission really investigate the scandal? Of course not. More to the point, during the Anti-Corruption Committee, where the Ukrainian Security Service was represented, it became clear that the law enforcement authorities were not going to investigate the crimes properly. This means that impunity will once again prevail in this country. And the last. Yesterday was the plenary week. The plenary day, which is usually the most effective day. Thus, this plenary day led us to fail to vote on an important law — the law on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u145	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u146	The Mediation Act, which would allow at least if the courts did not work, to settle disputes through mediators. But there were more than 226 votes to give to the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Helena. Thank you for your very timely presentation. And the National Deputy Bondar is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u148	Good afternoon. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency, Brodovščina, Bushina, Kamyanecina, and Radehovščina First of all, without waiting for a single day, today, on the first day of spring, I want to welcome all our women with spring, with the beginning of a new one, because spring is the beginning of a new life. I'm sure it's just this spring that this wonderful future for Ukraine is about to begin. I don't have the relevant issues of my colleagues today, global ones, but they're grounded in my 119th constituency. Every time I'm approached by the heads of the village councils, the city councils on road repairs, I write accordingly, and I ask the heads of the district government, because the state fund is in charge of the Lviv district, and that's 35 percent that come from the state fund in the area, that's exactly its responsibility. So all the time, I'm asking that these roads that provide rural, rural heads be accounted for primarily for repairs. But in addition, I'm going to try and raise funds from the state budget. To this end, Vladimir Omelyan, the minister of infrastructure, arrived last year. He's on some roads where I'm also asking to raise funds from the state budget, which is T 1410, this is Brody Stanislavczyk Road, this is a part of the road that's still unrepaired, and I'm very much asking you to pay attention to that. It is also the road T 1806 from Lopatin to Busk, through two districts: the Radehovsky and the Bousky region. And also the T 1425 is the Batajatici-Goddanovka, and it also passes through the Kamyanka-Buzki district and the Buška district respectively. So please. I spoke to Mr. Omelan's Minister of Infrastructure today and with Deputy Prime Minister Kistion Volodymyr, and I also enlisted their support. I hope that this word will still be kept to me, and in the further determination or arrangement to be issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, these roads will be considered as a priority for repairing them. And on the side of Mr. Oleg Blue's head of State's district administration, they'll also listen to the proposals that come from rural, rural, urban heads and that I support, and these roads will also be included in the priority for repairs. Thank you. I hope you'll cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u149	Thank you. And the next performance. Please, National Deputy Valérie Pisarenko is invited to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u150	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, we've asked the government a lot of simple questions today, too, and we've asked the government a lot of times. The questions were about how people live, if their income today, determined by the government and the state itself, is less than the costs they need to pay today for normal living. Unfortunately, after we talked to the government, there was a film in my mind that was on the screens recently called the Parallel Worlds. It's a pretty simple story. There are two planets that exist next to each other. There's a corporation on the same planet, and everyone's rich, everyone's got money, everyone's living very well. And this corporation, using the nadra from another planet, sells electricity at excessive prices to those poor people who live on another planet. And of course they don't understand the concerns of those people who can't even pay for this electricity. It's very similar to what's happening in Ukraine right now. In fact, the government today is demonstrating that we live in parallel worlds: one world is their world, and another world is people today who are trying to survive, trying to understand how they can feed families, how to pay the payments, and where the light is at the end of this tunnel. Sadly, many see this light as they go abroad. In the last four years, the price of gas has risen 12 times, the price of heating has increased 11 times, hot water has increased 4 times, electricity has increased 3. These are numbers no one wants to talk about. These are the numbers that are silent today, but by now the total debt of Ukrainians is 56 billion dollars. This is practically the budget of the capital city of Kiev. And we know that this year we're still expecting tariff hikes, there's going to be an increase. And I want to remind you that since May 1, foam has also been added to debt. We proposed and introduced Bill 10108, which repeals these laws and repeals the foam. Because what I wanted to hear from the government today is how they see today the struggle not only with high prices but also with the debts that have accumulated today. So it's very important to give an answer, to cancel the foam, and to give people the opportunity to pay as they can pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. And the people's deputy Oleg Medunica is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u152	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi. Two months ago, in this rostrum, I was speaking on the issues created by the officials of the Dergeondar for the sum companies that are developing careers. In the Sumskie region, there are not many useful mines in careers, and they extract clay, sand, and coals. But after being checked by officials, most of these companies were prescribed and actually placed on the verge of being stopped. I made a statement, which was signed by my fellow MPs from the Continent as well. It's been two months, no hearing, no spirit. What is more, they have now banned these companies from using these careers. We really didn't sit there, and some of the businesses, especially the ceramics company, with American, by the way, investments, went to court. And the court considered those ridiculous accusations in these rules of the civil servants of Derjgeondar and overturned their prescriptions. I don’t know who these officials are supposed to serve — the people or their pockets? Why do they create such a corrupting situation when they're actually bankrupting one of the leading sectors in the Universe? We're on the border with the Russian Federation. We have investments at least. The company sells, but Keramiya sells 70 percent of its products abroad, and it brings currency to the state. What's she selling it for? And from the carbons, modern technology is making bricks that are used for demand. Ceramic brick, brick guarantee, 100 years. Do you want to shut them down? We won't let that happen. Unlike the Kyiv officials who shut down businesses, I was in this career. There's a perfect career. Let's drive by, see what's in there. We're going to look at all the documentation that we have, not the funny stories that you want to stop the company from doing. The bagels won't pay anyone back, they won't pay for anything. I urge the head of government to intervene personally in this situation, hand in hand, hairy and dirty, or in paws, to those officials of Derjgeondar who want to get into the pocket of the sum producers. They're still in a difficult situation, and now they're getting payments for transporting electricity. They already want to take the money in advance, not for the use of transportation services, but for the advance. So it's going to be money laundering from the real manufacturer, and then the officials are going to go into their pockets. So I urge the Prime Minister to step in and slap those Dergeondar officials who are trying to stop the sum companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Mikhailo Bondar points out that he is asking for his speech to be counted and formed as a parliamentary address. Please, I'm going to the secretariat. And now I invite you to the floor of Mr. Link's national deputy. Please, Mr. Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u154	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Since the first day we came to this Parliament, since 2014, our team led by Oleg Lášk has been talking about the need to systematically raise minimum wages and pensions. This is a guarantee of economic success and social justice in the country. And only in the fifth year, one month before the end of its mandate, the authorities finally began to pretend that they had heard our demands and formed such benefits in the form of a payment to pensioners of 2,400 dollars in March. The thought of not doing so is that it is not a direct bribe. Yes, the authorities are trying to support the pensioners before the elections and pay them off, but that doesn't mean they have to take that money from the pensioners. Moreover, we demand, not a one-time tax of 2,400, but a monthly pension of 3,000 dollars a month. This is a fair, real total pension that was due from January 1, 2019 and at least 7,000 dollars of wages. Last week, I was at a meeting at Tsuman Public Education School, and Love Ivanovna's cleaning lady asks: she works in a halfway house and she gets 1 thousand 700 dollars, her husband, 62 years old, gets a social pension now 600 dollars. And she asks how you can survive on this money, and is it real wages for ordinary Ukrainians? The same question is asked at the New Archangel Children’s Centre, where these institutions are deprived of funding today, teachers do not have a normal salary, and our children’s education is being held on these people today. The employees of the Rwenna company ARM-ECO say we can raise salaries for our employees, but for that we need government orders that today target competitors in Poland, Belarus, and there are Belarusians, and Poles, and Ukrainian companies standing without charge and without normal pay. With such wages and pensions, people today cannot survive. We heard today's response from the Minister of Social Policy of Reva, who said that the payments of the five- or six-thousand bracelets were to send him. Yeah, maybe all the payments will have to be sent to him to make him pay. But, seriously, the policy of power needs to be changed. And finally, Ukrainians have a chance, a real chance in a month to change the situation in the country, and support the plan of the Lighter who offers jobs, a normal, decent pension and a salary so that people can spend that money at the most, not hide it in banks or under pillows, but go and buy drugs, go buy clothes, food, and that's how the economy works. This is a simple economic truth that is unfortunately unknown to our government, which operates solely under the direction of international monetary structures. And if they're not stopped, in May months, plus 20 more gas prices, in September months another 20 more gas prices, and by the end of the year, there will be no family in Ukraine who would have no debt for utility bills. We propose to change this situation and to support the plan of the Light in a month, and to change the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u155	Thank you. Next performance. Please, National Deputy Ivan Sporish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u156	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winniechkin. Is there a living man who has given me the word? I'd like to thank him, and thank you very much. Why? Because you know, I wouldn't be speaking the second time from this rostrum, but, again, we hear such sweet words: whatever someone does as I will, "if I will be queen there, says one virgin." That's exactly how we do it. But let us remember if any government has done as much as this government has done. Or at least one reform was carried out by those governments. We are 27 years in a free, independent Ukraine, and we have seen nothing, absolutely no reform, no change. We're about to change here, and everyone's trying to become President before the President's election, really, of course, but let's talk more easily from the rostrum. But it is very difficult not to speak from the rostrum, but it is very difficult to do. And that, I think the people of Ukraine should understand, should understand the electorate. I think we should think today, well, for Ukraine, not for populism, which should lead us to some kind of power today. And I think the people of Ukraine are going to figure it out. Well, that's not why I wanted to speak. I want to say second, after my first speech, the farmers are calling and saying, "When are these fees going to be paid for all the grants that the Cabinet of Ministers hasn't been able to pay by the new year?" Of course, I would very much like to take advantage of that, because, really, the farmers' trouble, I understand them, it's springtime. It's springtime, and everyone wants to sow, everyone wants to lay the foundation for the harvest. And that's why I think I really wanted the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to that. Because today, if there's no payment for these grants, and I'm hoping that they'll be paid in the near future, and this farmer is going to be able to do today, and this is his question number one, each of them, to really make himself some kind of guarantee of success for this year. The second thing that I wanted to pay attention to is that actually today is very difficult for peasants and the number of cows is decreasing. Questions were already being asked and asked to the government. Of course, you have to do everything you can to make the price of milk higher. Today the peasants, today the peasants are doing everything they can to survive because they actually have cows there. And if we don't make this price go up today, it's going to be very difficult. I think quite so poor peasants live. And to the end. On Saturday, on my district, the limestone's death is made east of the village. They're going to make the east of the village, and that's what I've done on several occasions from this rostrum for the limestone-crishopol road. Darling, who hasn't done any repairs on Winnitzkin for about 50 years, there's a hole in the pit. It's not a bad road, it's not there at all. This is where all the material that was actually built during the Romanian period is obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u157	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u158	During the Great Homeland War, when that road was built, no one ever did it again. I'm asking you to pay attention because there's an eight-thousand population of limestone, and not just it, it's suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u159	Thank you. And the next performance. Please, the Silantiev People's Deputies are invited. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u160	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear Ukrainians, I would like to begin with the information recently published by the State Department regarding the terrible level of mortality in Ukraine. Thus, in 2018, 233,000 more died in Ukraine than was born. This is the number of famous cities, such as Ivano-Frankivsky and Ternopil. Sadly, though, a sad statistic regarding the health status of Ukrainians can continue. Our country is beating all records of mortality and disease in Europe, including the spread of AIDS and cancer. The health status of children in Ukraine is as follows: 90 percent of schoolchildren have different types of diseases, and only 1 out of every 10. One in ten has a satisfactory health condition. So, respectable Ukrainians, based on this terrible information about the health status of our children and young people with you, what does an active government do to remedy this situation and create conditions for our children to be able to heal and not get sick with you? You'll never know. This year the government did not start funding a state program for the recovery and rest of children who need special attention and support in the children's health camps "Artek" and "Young Guard." In doing so, both health camps have already opened up healthy changes, but the health and rest of these children are at risk. I'll remind you what these kids are. These are children from many children and poor families, children who are now forced displaced in their homeland. They are all those children whose parents are unable to pay for their rest and recovery as a result of the merciless and failed economic policy of the government, which has put millions of people at the brink of poverty and beggary. There are billions of dollars to fund the President's electoral fund in the government. The cost of paying space wages and bonuses to government officials is, too, and to fund the well-being of the children of those who conscientiously pay taxes to the state budget, they do not appear. This is the height of impertinence and immorality. So the Radical Party team, led by Oleg Lášk, requires the government to refinance the state program for the recovery and rest of children who need special attention and support in the children's health camps "Artek" and "Young Guards." Let me remind you that our team has already chosen to accept the program. The National Programme for the Reconstruction and Development and Construction of Competitive Complexes in Ukraine for this year. And this is the first time since Ukraine's independence. So Oleg Láška’s Radical Party will continue to do its best to ensure that our children are well educated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u161	Thank you. And he is invited to the floor by the national deputy Yegor Soboljev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u162	I propose to Parliament that you think about the interests of thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, millions of Ukrainian citizens who are abroad, but they don't want to forget Ukraine, they don't leave Ukraine alone. Today, if you're a Ukrainian citizen living in Canada, in Australia, in any successful and civilized country in the world, it's very difficult for you to even vote when you really want to participate in the administration of the Ukrainian state. For all of Australia, for example, there is only one diplomatic institution and anyone who wants to participate in the Ukrainian elections with Ukrainian citizenship has to travel thousands of miles, write a written statement in the embassy, which will then be sent by diplomatic mail to Kiev, where they will enter the voter register in electronic form. It spends a lot of taxpayers' money, it takes a lot of time, and as a result, we lose Ukrainian citizens with experience in successful democracies, who simply cannot vote. In past presidential elections in Toronto, where there is an incredibly cool, beautiful Ukrainian diaspora, only 920 Ukrainian citizens participated in the elections. We propose to correct this, we propose to think about these people, we suggest that they be involved in the administration of the Ukrainian State with a very simple and clear decision: to adopt a bill that will allow for communication with the voter register by means of electronic communications. The employees of the register themselves, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are currently struggling with these papers, are also in favour. There is only a decision left by the Ukrainian Parliament, which, I am sure, is in the interests of the citizens, and in the interests of Parliament, and in the interests of the entire great Ukrainian family, which is now scattered around the world. Let's take this step. Let us involve as many deserving Ukrainians as possible in the administration of the Ukrainian State.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u163	And the next performance. Please, Mrs. Ostrick Tetjana. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to dedicate my presentation today to a 50 percent reduction in excise duty. But first let's figure out the numbers. Thus, from November 25, 2018 to February 22, 2019, a total of 217,880 cars were formed with excise discounts that paid 13 and a half billion dollars into the customs payment budget. Of these vehicles, from 217 thousand, Euronomists make up 139 thousand,752 cars, and from euronomists to government budgets, 8.6 billion dollars are paid. This is the cost, not 13 billion, of how the President's false information has been distributed and many people have caught it in the media, and it's the money from the 8.6 billion dollar Euronomist customs will be directed to the Pension Fund. And as we've learned, according to the government decree, this is going to be a one-time payment in March and in April 2019 to individual categories of citizens of the amount of 2,400 dollars, 2410 dollars. Let's figure this out. A lot of questions today are asking me as the head of the Customs Subcommittee, whether there will be an extension of the debt period. Let's see why the authorities didn't want him to continue, even though Self-Help insisted that this period should be at least six months, rather than a year. So if we look at it, the inflationary period ended on February 22. The authorities needed this date to accumulate the costs of clearing euronomers and on March 1st to redistribute these costs as disposable taxes to pensioners. I'll point out that Self-Help is in favour of increasing pensions, especially minimum pensions. But what has actually happened? What happened was that in one category of citizens, the authorities removed the funds and redistributed them as disposable taxes before the elections to ensure that they were re-elected. One of the principles of the Tax Code is the principle of equality between all taxpayers and non-discrimination between tax payers and others. Taking into account the fact that the DFS claimed some 600,000 Euronomist cars with regime violations and only 139 thousand of them were blurry, some taxpayers were unable to exercise their right to pay excise benefits. So I think that this period should be set up, an additional period, so that all citizens who want to import the vehicle today, including the Euronomists, can carry out a customs clearance with a discount on excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Auntie. The national deputy Oleg Sauka is now taking the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u166	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! During the current week, much has been said about the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and much has been adopted for us to adopt a number of laws that are necessary at this time for our military personnel to be able to defend our country confidently, to fight the Moscow enemy, the Moscow invader who is currently in our territory, Ukraine. The fifth year! And unfortunately, there are many shortcomings that. The question concerning the TSC was discussed in this room. A temporary commission of inquiry that was given the right to consider all negative actions, the negative misconduct of certain leaders who, at the time of the war, are profited. And that's why I would like, noble dear colleagues, not to speculate on this, but to give the opportunity, in the shortest possible time, that the TSC, the interim commission of inquiry, would do some testing and prove to our Ukrainian society that there are certain shortcomings. Yes, there are shortcomings, there are shortcomings in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. These shortcomings must be exposed and condemned, as well as avoided, by respectable colleagues in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I am now addressing the Prime Minister of our State of Ukraine with a request concerning the Mikolai garrison, the largest garrison in our country of Ukraine, where military officials returned to Ukraine in 2014 with honor without dedicating their oath. When Moscow invaders in their time occupied the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, our nation, our territory. And for the time being, the Ministry of Defense has purchased 69 apartments, and for a period of time no apartment has been distributed. This abuse of military personnel, who, after more than 20 years of service in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, have not betrayed their oaths by protecting our country of Ukraine, are more than ever waiting for housing, their families, their children. That is why we must do our utmost, especially to intervene with our Prime Minister, our State of Ukraine. To this disgraceful phenomenon, which is currently in debt only for apartments that are currently unallocated, 500,000. Who's going to pay for it? Out of people's pockets? No, we should not allow this, and there should also be investigations against these people, and we should bring them to justice. And in the shortest time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u167	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u168	So the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine will do its utmost to allocate apartments to every military officer, where the Mikolai garrison commission has distributed to the military. No one should harass the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u169	Thank you for your statement, dear colleague. And now Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor. He has six minutes because his colleague Lensky is given the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u170	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to the Ukrainians from this high hall: look at the Parliament Hall. There are fewer people in Parliament than my team in the rostrum. That is why this situation confirms the correctness of our position and my program that the number of MPs should be reduced to 250. People in Ukraine pay their deputies a salary, MPs don't go to work. We don't need deputies like that. So after the presidential election, I'm initiating a national referendum to amend the Constitution on reducing the number of members of the Supreme Council to 250. I'm going to cancel the MP's immunity, I'm going to limit no more than two terms in the deputies, because many of us can only move forward to the Fairy Cemetery, otherwise they don't want to go out, and I'm not going to go to the Supreme Council of Pensioners. This referendum on reducing the number of MPs will be held in the autumn of 2019 along with the parliamentary elections. This is what the neighbouring Moldova did — last Sunday they held a referendum and nearly doubled the number of deputies. So I'm going to propose to the Ukrainians to answer the question of the restoration of the death penalty in Ukraine for corruption: when they're robbed on the roads, on the army, on the pensioners, on the children, on the disabled, on the orphans, they charge their pockets, and they're released under house arrest, or they cancel their responsibility for corruption at all. We're going to take responsibility for corruption, we're going to go to a referendum on the restoration of the death penalty, and those who rob Ukrainians need to be shot, not sent under house arrest. We'll put order in place to pay for the work of government officials and heads of state companies. Yesterday, the Naftogazu Supervisory Board, which consists mainly of foreigners -- stress, Naftogaz -- is a state-run enterprise run by foreigners -- decided to extend the contract with Naftogazu's head, Koboljev, and to double his salary. If before that Kobolev received 3 million dollars a month, he would now receive 6 million dollars a month. How can a country where people spend their last money to pay for a utility where children do not eat, meat can be seen at big holidays, Easter or Christmas, where they count the last cents, because the authorities have left no alternative: to buy a expensive pack of pills, or to pay a expensive utility, how can such wages be fixed in a poor country to the heads of state enterprises? And the president, the government, the parliamentary majority, are closing their eyes and pausing, supporting the looting of the Ukrainian people during the war. We're going to put order in, we're going to arrest all of Kobolev's accounts and his gop company, where they took billions of Ukrainians offshore, and we're going to return that money to the people. We'll cancel the government's decision to increase gas prices. Ukrainians cannot pay space prices for gas with low wages and pensions. Restoring justice, setting fair wages for people is what Ukrainians need today. The strong economy, the new jobs, the increase in wages, the recalculation of pensions, the restoration of state control over drug prices, the food, so that people don't starve, so that young people don't look for a better fate abroad -- here's the plan of the Easy with which we go to the elections. The authorities lied to us when the government budget was reviewed in December. And our team offered to set a minimum wage of 6,000 dollars, a minimum pension of 3,000 dollars, as of January 1, 19. The authorities lied to us that there is no money in the budget and the International Monetary Fund against it. I have a question: Where did the International Monetary Fund, when three days ago the President, the Prime Minister and the head of the Pension Fund, came out and said they would make a one-time pension payment to the Ukrainians for 2,000 dollars? Where is the International Monetary Fund? Why does he not suddenly object when Dusty wants to buy voters? And the money was in the budget. We don't mind two thousand dollars being added to the pension at least once, we're supporting this power initiative because they've robbed billions, even if they give a couple thousand away. But after the presidential election, we're going to change the budget so that Ukrainian pensioners, Ukrainian workers, peasants, get not once a bonus before the election, taxes, but a raise in wages and recalculate pensions so that Ukrainian doctors, teachers, librarians, social workers, cultural workers get a normal salary. The strong economy, the new jobs, the return of millions of employees from abroad, the increase in wages, the recalculation of pensions, fair tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our meeting for 10 minutes because we have three remaining colleagues. And now I give the word of Andrew Teteruk. Then we have Mr. Aresonkov, our colleague, to speak. And it will conclude our debates today, our speeches, the People's Deputy Krivenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u172	Dear Madam Chairman! Honorable colleagues are national deputies, who, as usual on Fridays, are not as many. Dear Ukrainian people! I want to inform you about my Bill 9219, which allows our Ukrainian industrialists, entrepreneurs working in the space field, to develop. Why am I doing this? Because in fact, by appreciating the situation in our space field, we can endlessly talk about how it led to its collapse. And the right role in assessing this situation, I agree that law enforcement authorities can and should be able to do so by assessing the impact of the multibillion-dollar losses on industry management by certain managers who continue to sit in their posts. Rather, it would be unprofessional to criticize and not offer an effective solution. And that's why it would be wrong to see the road and not walk on it. And by my initiative, I'm actually opening up this path, pointing green light to all those who are in pain, so that our Ukrainian branch will happen in the same way as it did in developed democratic countries, so that our entrepreneurs, scientists, engineers don't go looking for the realization of their intellectual potential abroad. And they're usually hunted by hedhanters, who win them over with high wages, and the right conditions in those states that actually work as space nations. And my bill allows us to get rid of the state monopoly that we had after the collapse of the Soviet Union and how the Red Directors have been so successful in taking advantage of certain positions in the space field. Just to create the right competitive conditions, and my bill is sent. It is competition that will allow us to realize the intellectual potential of young people who complete higher education institutions in those who already have the right experience working in the space agency and in the field. And I want to thank, in fact, for protecting this bill from the Committee on Industry and Entrepreneurship, which properly assessed the large number of problems facing our nation in relation to the space sector. And of course, in a professional discussion, we understand that we need not only to propose changes to the better side, but to continue to work in every way in order to create a modern and appropriate legislative environment for the development of our space sector. And for that, I personally thank Victor Halasyuk, all of whom voted in favour of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u173	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u174	I sincerely hope that during the first reading of my bill, the session hall will support it as much as the committee advised, in the first reading, so that we can work on it. Indeed, there were many interesting thoughts that allowed us to begin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u175	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. And the People's Deputy Volodymyr Aresonkov is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u176	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished viewers! Once again, I would like to go back to the subject of extremely annoying, sensitive to all Ukrainians, a topic with which virtually every Ukrainian reform or change and quality education, medicine in the country, and decentralization reform are practically many of these very important things that will be involved in what modern Ukrainian roads will be like, how fast or extreme rapid assistance will reach the patient, or, let's say, those potential investors or those who are currently engaged in serious business, to what extent they will be able to get to Ukraine effectively. And today, during our early contacts with the government, we raised these questions. I would like to stress once again the very important point of the road M21, which begins in Hmelnitsky, takes place in Vinnitské, Žitomirské region and beyond, the Republic of Belarus. An extremely large number of freight, passenger, and large numbers of foreigners, as well as investors, are on the road. And today, of course, this road is in an extremely sad state. This, let's put it bluntly, is a huge shame for us in front of foreigners, in front of representatives of other states, when roads are in Ukraine, and including this road, in such an extraordinary state, where it's hard to talk about quality transportation. So today, I'd like to go to the government again so that in the construction plans, the reconstruction for this year, there was an M21 road planned. We have spoken to the Ministry on this subject on several occasions. So let us hope that there will be changes. And another question that my colleagues mentioned today. The issue of social protection for citizens affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. I'm glad that Bill 4442 was mentioned today, where it's about the pensions of the Chernobylites; and the bill, where it's about increasing nutrition for children, for schoolchildren, for preschoolers, who have also suffered from an accident at CHAES; and a whole box of other issues. He needs a solution in the near future. I look forward to our successful consolidated work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u177	Thank you. And this is the last performance today, dear colleagues. I invite you to Victor Krivenk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u178	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear viewers, I want to report this week on what we've been doing and what we've been doing. First. On the Conciliation Council, I raised a question before the Head of the Supreme Council about the deadline for the introduction of Bill 6644, which in fact introduces weight control and responsibility of carriers on the road. Because we're putting billions of dollars in the road and we're seeing them crash in half a year by overloaded transport first. I've been to Lochvik, I've seen the weight complex, but there's no regulatory base, and that's why it doesn't work. This week we've registered the following bills: 10100 is about the prestige of teaching and teaching work to compare all of our teachers to get the right allowance. Because there is now injustice. This is based on my visit to Lvivščina, a meeting with the education profession. A bill is proposed. Thank you to the colleagues who joined and signed it with me. 10101 is by creative dynasties. We've had a catastrophic situation where corruption legislation puts an unfulfilled requirement first for theaters, circuses, and the scientific institutions where the dynasties work, for museums. That's why we've seen many of our leading scientists, artists, and we've submitted such a bill. Likewise, thank you to the colleagues who have joined this bill. The next bill is two bills that we're passing along with Jaroslav Markevich. You see, there are not even any signatures left here, I thank you, over fifty of my fellow Members of Parliament have supported this initiative. And as the head of the interfractional association, Plast, we are introducing a bill finally on state recognition and support for Plast, the National Scout Organization of Ukraine. I want to thank both the heads of the profile committees, and the Palatnos and the Spiowakovskys who signed, and the Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parbia, who was one of the first to be reborn at Plast. And this is an apolitical bill that I believe all factions will support, and we must do so. On Thursday we started a discussion of the Ukrainian language bill. And I want to encourage all of our viewers to push their deputies, to write on Facebook, to come to a meeting, to a reception and say that this is a ruby: whoever doesn't support this bill is actually an anti-Ukrainian actor and should be treated accordingly. Tuesday was a briefing with the representatives of Hadachsyre. I spoke to Kubi, the First Deputy Prime Minister, and he's taken control of this issue of paying off the wages of over 19 million dollars. And finally, now there are about 17 deputies in the room, 2 motorists make up 11 percent. Our October elections, I think, will show the same representation already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u179	15 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u180	And we can actively lobby these and other initiatives. Now, I'd like you to take a look at the electoral program that's on the site and support me, go to the election on March 31st and vote on my conscience as much as possible. Thank you. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies, which have been recorded today, have ended in order to be able to join the discussion. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected journalists, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, on Friday, all the national MPs were speaking out of those political themes and with those statements they wanted to bring to their voters, and the presiding officer did not influence in any way, stopped because that is the norm of the Rules. I would also like to take this opportunity to point out once again that the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine call on Ukrainian national deputies to speak only on the subject of the bill under discussion. On Friday, we have the opportunity to speak on political topics. I thank you all very much for the unforgivable, stormy but effective sessional week. Let me remind all of you that the following week the national deputies work on committees, commissions, and factions. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 12th, at 10 a.m., and will begin after the factions' statements on the first amendment, and we will continue to move on to the amendment to the language bill. We have two and a half thousand amendments, and we will go to work on this important bill under the Rules. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
