ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please. Colleagues, we're taking up jobs. So, colleagues, please turn on the "Council" system and please register. Let's register. [[10:02:21]] There are 348 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the birth of our colleague Volodymyr Mironovich Solar, centurion of 18 hundred, the head of the intelligence unit of the Idar Battalion. Hello, Comrade Arrow. Happy birthday. And I remind you that today we have 30 minutes to perform by the national deputies. Not from factions, but from national MPs. And so I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to record. Please sign up. Please. So Semenha Roman Sergiyovich is invited to the presentation. And he gives the responsible word, Oleni Babak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs, each of us knows about the enormous reforms of the electricity market, the natural gas market. But today we are here blocking the rostrum so that people will still feel that they are protected by the state, by Parliament, from all these reforms properly. And unfortunately, we keep talking to you from the air about how important it is to have a balanced warming approach, by the counters, and then just to bring prices to markets. But, unfortunately, where is our government today, where the representatives of all the authorities after the promotion of the work of an extremely important energy efficiency fund, where, dear fellows, the budget provides for the financing and filling of this fund of 3.2 billion dollars? But please tell me where the courtyard where people know what they need to do to make use of this huge resource of the Ukrainian State Budget and to ensure that their homes are warmed up. Where, please tell me, is the way to compensate for the cost of setting up gas counters that the government has not been able to reach people for a year and have held people hostage from the crazed consumption standards, and says, "Don't you pay what the courts have set up for fraud?" But where is the government with the civil protection system under the conditions of serious reforms in the energy sector? Where is the government that would lobby and develop other areas of the state’s livelihood? These are heating systems, water supply systems. Odessa was out of water yesterday. Why? And everyone asks, what could be done? Or at least 200 million dollars could be made for the U.K. Drinking Water program. But where did the money go? The money went to sports courses in the electoral year for political corruption for senior MPs. Dear colleagues, as long as the state does not see that all reforms should be accompanied by proper protection for every Ukrainian citizen in his balance, in full balance of interests (both water, and heat, and electricity, and gas, and counter, and warming) until we can talk about economic reforms in the energy sector. So the Self-Help Unit today requires the government to immediately inform the population by using the energy efficiency fund's funds, the immediate, state-owned program, the setting up of individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u4	And the financing, the full, the differences in the tariffs for water-based enterprises, the heat to avoid translating into local budgets and citizens of Ukraine all the consequences of energy sector reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u5	Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Teteruk Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u7	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! Ukraine has been defending its history, the land in the struggle against the Russian Federation, Russia, and the Moscow kingdom. And Russia was originally an enemy to our Ukrainian people. All the bloody and cruel pages of our history were related to the fact that it was betrayal that led to the death of the best sons and daughters of the Ukrainian people. And today, in choosing our future, we need to remember what it was like in the past. Remember the Baturin tragedy when a brave Ukrainian army defended the fortress, but for some Russian king’s letter, such a traitor as John Nis showed where to go to the Moscow army, and all the inhabitants of Baturin — from babies to grandfathers, from women to glorious soldiers — were destroyed. And such traitors continue to be the primary force of the Moscow kingdom today. We're successfully fighting on the front. But are we equally prepared to defend our country within? Are we ready to take our stand against all those traitors who are now working for the king of Moscow? Are we willing to acknowledge that such Godfathers of Putin are now preparing a rematch, are now preparing an information space to dismember our country, in order to allow themselves to be told out loud that Donbas has the right to autonomy, to parliament, to go now and make deals with murderers, to terrorists, to puppeteers who run those killers? It's unacceptable. And I really want this initiative of the People's Front to create a temporary commission to investigate the Russian Federation's involvement in Ukraine's elections to be carried out in this Parliament. To unite all of us against an internal enemy working for the Russian Federation, to remember that such traitors must be despised, they must become toxic for every Ukrainian politician, for every Ukrainian citizen. And to those who don't believe that Putin's godfather is going to be arrested, I want to tell you that even a large elephant eats small pieces. We have to do our work clearly and continuously. That's what we all need to understand: the godfather of Putina Medvedchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u8	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u9	Bear under arrest! Bear under arrest! Bear under arrest! Bear under arrest!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u10	Thank you. Meparishvili gives the floor to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! Today, the ATO veterans, who are both internally displaced persons or, as they briefly call themselves, ATO-WPO, are gathering for the rally. The demands of these people are very simple. They want to live in Ukraine in their own homes, and they deserve it. Each fought against a Russian aggressor in the east, fought for Ukraine and for its future in an independent Ukraine. After their service, they had nowhere to go, since their homes and their homes remained occupied. In 2017, thanks to my initiative and the insistence of our Committee on the Affairs of Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, the term “ATOs, VPOs” first appeared in Ukrainian legislation. And thanks to our work with you, the 18th-year budget initially allocated 25 million dollars to the purchase of housing for this population category. After the first half of the year, expenditure was increased and 41.7 million dollars were paid for 2018. As a result, in the 18th year, 54 ATO participants from internally displaced persons were able to buy their own housing, start a new life. Many of them say that after receiving their accommodations, they had a new purpose in living and working. Today, nearly 3.5 thousand ATO participants in the U.S.A., U.S.A., are registered in Ukraine. Of these, there are 1,700 people in the local government to receive housing first. Together with Nikolai Grekov, we traveled all over Ukraine, talked to the heads of the government, and met with local government authorities to start local programs to buy apartments for ATO participants. By this year's budget, only 25 million dollars have been allocated to the housing compensation program. That's not enough. I have initiated an increase in funding for this program of 200 million dollars. I understand that the budget should be balanced. I understand that there are other expenses to be foreseen in the budget. But I'm convinced that this office of parliament, we have to solve the issue of housing for ATO participants, VPO. This is our responsibility to this Parliament and this government to give these people a new impetus to life in Ukraine. That's why we're asking the government to review the first half of the year's money and increase funding for ATO, VPO 200 million dollars. We must pay our debts to our supporters of Ukraine. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u12	Thank you. And please let the national MP John Sporish be invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u13	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District. It's vinyl. Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u14	Please turn on Oleg Barney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u15	Praise Jesus Christ! Presidential candidates or leaders of the political party from the so-called "opposition" or under-position that are in opposition to the pro-European authority. Obviously, many critics speak on the issue of gas prices. Could it be twice as cheap? Probably if the Kremlin had not signed a threefold price increase agreement in 2009 and the IMF, a memorandum on a gradual increase in market price in 2009, in the position of the Prime Minister. Would the budgetary institutions of education, medicine, culture have been able to properly maintain if those or 55 billion external loans had not been ripped apart by the Government of Timoshenko and Azarov? Did the salaries of the budgeters double, including pensioners at the present time, if we were not spending more than 400 billion dollars in Ukraine’s budget today to service the external debts owed by the governments of Timoshenko and Azarov? Could there be a war now if some parties called "peace" and "no peace" did not bring Yanukovich into power and call for Putin to come? Would Putin have tried and attacked Ukraine if our army had been viable, hadn't been looted, ripped apart, sold-out weapons over the years 2005-2013? And could we rebuild our country much faster if we didn't spend billions now on what we could get rid of? The president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, officially created his business and transferred it to external administration. And passed it on to the outside office, like President Trump and the other presidents do. But by the way, he's given the army more than 500 million dollars to buy sniper complexes, and he's buying apartments for dead soldiers and their families. But the question is: He deserves the very respect of the soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u16	I am very much asking the room to give the speaker an opportunity to express his position. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, a minute! Dear National Deputies! Please, Barney, add one minute, and those who shout, please don't take up time. He said, I'm paying attention to everyone who's here: we're now giving speeches by the Ukrainian national MPs. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is a place for discussion, and during the talks everyone has the right to express his political position. Bills under the Rules should be discussed on bills and amendments, not political slogans. Please, Mr. Barna, one minute, please. Add more, add.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u17	And that's what President Poroshenko deserves from these military men, not buy them for a pseudo. pseudo-revelationship as some of the leaders at their assemblies. The higher degree of cynicism is that people who rob a country that is homeless make declarations: without a circle, without a yard, they ride with a guard, they make wars, and they finance billions into their party projects, and they display boards. The question is, where does the money come from? Either stolen or financed from the Kremlin. And that's why we all need to do it now more than ever. Not far from the MP's salary. When a man-pea is a family problem, when a political powia is a state-specific problem. But when a Ukrainian politician is a Kremlin prostitute, it is a matter of the security of our state, a threat to the existence of our state. Glory to Ukraine! Death to the enemy!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues, I ask you all to calm down. First. I am very much asking everyone to call parliamentary language, to forget those words that are hardly parliamentary language. [[Noise Nodes]] I'm not Ira, I'm the presiding officer of today's session. The next speaker, please, is National Deputy Sergei Sobolev of the Fatherland Party and the Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I very much ask you to honor each other. We have the right to go with you to the election. Please, Mr. Sobolev. Please, Mr. Sobolev. [[Noise Nodes]] Do not interrupt your colleague, Mr. Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u19	Sobolje, Fatherland. Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, when the "Cremle prostitute" who imitates the release of Ukrainian hostages, and we receive them more and more each month, the next Ukrainian patriots, thanks to this "Cremle's whore" appointed by Peter Poroshenko to negotiate the release of hostages, continue to sit in his office when the Attorney General simulates the discovery of criminal cases after 4.5 years of the work of this "Cremle prostitute" in the Minsk group, I feel terrible – where the country goes. But that's not what I'm talking about. The key question is, why is it that, in opening the agenda, everyone who understands that the key question is what is happening in the gas market today does not go into the agenda? I find another argument. When, in wartime, the President of the State sells his business to his partner, who just a month later is allowed to export Ukrainian gas abroad and only his structure is allowed to export Ukrainian gas abroad, the gas that is being investigated by the Ukrainian state-owned company Crushing, spending billions of dollars on it, and exports this gas in war conditions, in the absence of gas, the partner who is buying from the President of the business, I have no questions. How does this differ from what Stalin did in the years of Holodomor when the last one was taken from the peasants, taking away their right even to have passports, virtually condemning them to hunger? The same is true today with millions of Ukrainians, allowing them to export Ukrainian gas abroad. I think that's why you don't put these questions in order of day, because these facts make it possible to finally give a key answer: who's playing Moscow, and who's allowing you to export Ukrainian gas abroad. This is Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko. And that name will always be called until we have the right to investigate all these facts, including here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am indeed addressing all factions and all the deputies of all factions. Let's get these two places of electoral campaign done properly and refrain from using uncensored or offensive language. Thank you very much. Please make the next statement. National Deputy Non-Faction Sergey Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u21	I'll start with my own written poem: "The loud statements, the rallies, the paphos, who will exalt himself more brightly. And somewhere in the east in a tight trench, the soldiers will send the text home. She will tell you how she has been fighting for the past five years, and she will remember her sisters. In response, he will be told who survived and who did not die of hunger. Everyone shows who and what is worth, more specifically, the worthy runners and Bali. It's just amazing dancing when the poor kids are crying somewhere. When the old man doesn't eat and the soldier saves us from the enemy, only the bare bare barefoot can have such feasts. She stole a bunch of money from an entrepreneur, from a simple laborer, or did she take a subscription from an enemy to an insurgent? There will be a time of splendor, a time of determination, of all those who have not sold the baby-sitter. We will only see the rats of the runners and where some five have been shoved. ” What do I have to do with this? Eight people have called this morning, more than half are asking for funds for the treatment of children, the elderly, and the cost of survival. People are about to lose their patience, and someone in these elections can take advantage of the situation. There are prerequisites that one of the political forces will want to go back to the polling campaign, get people back up again, and take advantage of what was the situation in the country. Make a mess in the country, split the country. I warn and warn those guys who don't go to the rally. They sit quietly and do their job, they work, but they warn us, "We're going out, and we're going to show what we didn't do in the 14th year." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Once again, I ask you to refrain from speaking harshly. And the next speech, please, is by our colleague, National Deputy Abdullin. He gives the word to his colleague Krulk and will not even interrupt him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u23	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This session hall is very often used to mention the topic of gas. But I do have one question. And isn't this scraped gas sold from Russia by Kum Putin, along with the acting president, our colleague recently spoke in his investigation of Sergey Lechchenko? Isn't it about this scheme that is being done in war today when thousands of Ukrainian soldiers are being covered up to protect our country in the east of Ukraine from the Russian occupation, and there is a multimillion-dollar business on this blood, especially on cremated gas, such as the Putin godfather? That's what we need to talk about today. And every Ukrainian voter who decides what choice to make on March 31st is to remember that the worst business is when it's done in war by the blood of Ukrainian soldiers. And you know, when we're talking today about what kind of terrible poverty Ukrainian citizens have thrown away because of unrealistic, 12 times the higher tariffs on gas and municipal payments on the population, so know, Ukrainian citizens, what is this money, which is the kind of money that the private, part of which is owned by the Russian oligarchs, through the corrupt Naftogaz, is trying to give you through the plan of mass bribery of the electorate that is currently being prepared. That is why Julia Timoshenko of the Conciliation Council stated that she had applied to the National Police for a crime involving the mass bribery of voters that was being prepared on March 31st. And the scheme of this bribe is known, and the cards that will be counted by thousands of bracelets are known. And we demand that the law enforcement authorities put an end to it because they first led voters, Ukrainians to terrible poverty, millions of Ukrainians to go abroad. In fact, the middle class was destroyed and destroyed. And those who have to come to the elections have no opportunity to do that, and on this background, they're going to try to buy a thousand dollars for a Ukrainian vote to fake the election and continue to leave this regime, which will do business on the blood, including business on Russian gas, which is being shipped to Ukraine through linings, that's where it has to end. And the fact that Julia Timoshenko is trying to stop the looting of the Ukrainian people, I think we should not just support it, but show it in the March 31st election. Therefore, Fatherland demands that the bribe be stopped and that the looting of Ukrainians be stopped through tariffs and through.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u24	Please make the next statement. We didn't say a word to anyone. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u25	And that's why the "Fatherland" faction requires us to stop the business in the war, stop the gas patterns that are happening with the godfather of Putin. Stop covers that are created, especially in Slovakia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u26	Thank you for your performance. And, please, the next speech is the national deputy Ivan Sauka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u27	Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll ask Mr. Mikola to give the floor to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u28	Please turn on Santa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, you can see that we've entered the election campaign. And I, when I listen to all these speeches, I'm obviously very concerned, because in the period since Maidan, we've been able to do a lot of things in spite of the huge number of problems. I'm looking at the area that I'm doing, and we've really revived the Ukrainian film. We have indeed changed the management of many cultural institutions, and young strong people have come. We've created a book institute. We've done so much. We need to take a few more important steps. One of them that I'm extremely concerned about is the adoption of the Law on the Use of Ukrainian Language as a State Language. This is our responsibility. And no matter what the outcome of the election, if we don't do it in this configuration, and we have to do it in other people's politics, live on, it's going to be extremely difficult in the next. Because when you look at this source of emotion, not always honest, not always fair, and not always constructive, when you understand what the next Parliament will be like, sometimes you're afraid that everything we've done will be hard to continue. I think we're holding it back, but it's going to be hard to keep going. When we talk about the adoption of the Language Law, I would very much ask that we gather for the next plenary week and find in ourselves the power to vote for it. Because the ideology of this law is that it does more than just establish the Ukrainian language. We're going to be creating educational centers for learning Ukrainian in all regions of Ukraine. You know that more than 90 percent of children in Donetsk, Lugansk, go to Ukrainian schools voluntarily, at the will of their parents. People want their children to speak Ukrainian in order to develop Ukrainian culture. The law envisages, in addition to setting up such centers, the extension of a lot of activities, because if we adopt this law, it doesn't mean that tomorrow Ukrainian television is 100 percent or radio will become Ukrainian or newspapers in Ukraine will only be published in Ukrainian. No, of course, the law will take care of the rights of national minorities, but we have to do everything in 5 and 10 years that our country has nothing different from any neighbouring country -- Poland, Hungary, France, Germany, where their language is the basis of their identity, their culture, the basis of their self-awareness. So I urge everyone to stop any forgeries and provocations that are now taking place in the press in order to overthrow the adoption of this law, unite and assure you that any factions who have candidates for the Presidents will be helped by this law, wherever you want to gather votes -- in the West or in the East, because we have made an absolutely European law, and it is our great political responsibility to accept it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u30	Thank you, too. And the next speech, please, Igor Šurma, is your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u31	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I'm now addressing the coalition MPs. Listen to what your disability has led to. United States, Washington, D.C.: 37 cases of measles, a state of emergency. State of New York: 209 cases, including in Brooklyn: 64. A state of emergency has been declared. Czech Republic: 207 cases, state of emergency In Prague alone, 103 cases of measles have been reported. What do we have in Ukraine for the third year in a row? 71.5 thousand cases of measles, 29 deaths. We don't have an epidemic. That is what the man, or man, declared. A minister you're not putting in a third year in a session hall for her approval as a minister. It's official statistics. Why am I talking, official? Because on January 9, in Odessa, at the age of 17, a young girl died of measles. Under pressure, my parents removed their publication from Facebook. Although the hospital confirms it. So there's something different about official statistics. And nothing's announced. Why is this so? We went to the National Security Council. Soccer started. We must make the appropriate decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers forms all the documents of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health is responsible for all of this. And you, your coalition with your government, have destroyed the ambulance service. There is no Chief State Medic today. There is no one to declare an epidemic. To this day, the Suprun should do all of this. Supron says there's no epidemic today. If you want to read what an epidemic is, open up a dictionary of the Supreme Council's legal terms, which says what an epidemic is, and you'll know what to take. And in the meantime, I'll tell you that your government, your government, for which the coalition voted, has adopted an appropriate Ordinance on the State Commission on Technological Environmental Safety, whose main task is to oversee sanepidism. The head is Groissman. All of you, your shushing will have an end. You will all be held accountable. And fate awaits you, as Lynchevski said, "They will all die, no choice." I'm the only one talking about your political death. You're all on the road. In the meantime, we turn to law enforcement agencies. Investigate who is responsible for the epidemic, who is responsible for this whole situation. And bring criminal responsibility to the guilty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u32	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u33	Even so, yesterday at a meeting of the Health Committee, the Ministry’s work and its headquarters were found to be unsatisfactory. And you keep protecting, protecting, protecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u34	Thank you. And the national deputy Kuprienko gives the word to his colleague Halasyuk. So, instead of Kuprienka, the national deputy of Galasjuk will be speaking. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u35	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Economically unfounded, artificially increasing the price of gas for the population under the IMF dictatorship and the raising of municipal tariffs, it caused social shock. And by the way, it's a shock without therapy. Ukrainian gas, if you count its cost, transportation, all expenses, taxes, investment, profitability, costs less import. To compare its price to European level is a crime against the Ukrainian people, and this is a huge economic mistake. Because in Ukraine, wages are far from European. Look at Poland, the minimum wage of 520 euros, 4 times more than in Ukraine. Look at Germany, which is the price of Ukrainian gas. There the wage is 12 times the minimum wage in Ukraine — 1,600 euros. And in Ukraine, pensioners who receive 3,000 dollars of pension pay only for 4 thousand and 200 dollars and give a subsidy of 400 dollars. Imagine! So there's no physical ability to pay for the utility at all, not what you eat, not what you buy. If children do not help, people simply do not have the capacity to survive. Our leader, Oleg Lazko, visits people all over Ukraine. Unfortunately, this is not an exception. Unfortunately, that's the rule today, and that's what the authorities are doing, because they're not doing economic policy for people, they're doing it for the International Monetary Fund. As a result of this policy, today the debt for a municipality in the country has reached nearly 60 billion dollars. 60 billion dollars, just think about it, another year this debt was 32 billion, which is twice as much a disaster. And why this is a judgment of the economic and social policy of today's power under the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund. The Radical Party team, our leader, Oleg Lazko, are proposing a completely different policy. So today and before we make a decision on gas, we block the parliamentary rostrum. We demand that our gas decree be taken, that we cancel the artificial price hike for gas for the population. We demand the resignation of Naftogazu's head, Koboljeva, who receives three million dollars a month's salary. You'll think about it. The teacher gets 7,000 dollars at the university, and Kobolev gets 3 million. To return to the budget the billions of dollars he has paid to himself and to his lieutenants. In which country do we live, wherever possible, in which civilized country? Where grandma can't pay the utility, and the head of Naftogazu is three million dollars. It's got wages. Third. A moratorium on unwarranted increases in municipal tariffs. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u36	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u37	Four. Large-scale energy modernisation, according to the law that Oleg Lášk and I introduced to Parliament. And finally, the purchase of Ukrainian gas and coal, the work of Ukrainian miners and Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u38	Thank you. So the speeches by the national deputies have been completed, but the Presidency has received two applications for a recess that is ready to be replaced. The first is from Peter Dustenk's Block and People's Will. And here is Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the Peter Dustenka faction. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u39	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Tomorrow, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled to make a historic decision: to finally adopt the changes initiated by President Peter Prashenko to the Constitution regarding Ukraine's acquisition of full membership in NATO and the European Union. The decision of the Ukrainian Parliament to change the Basic Law will ensure that Ukraine's development is irreversible to the democratic cohesion of the developed countries of the world. Years after the Dignity Revolution, Ukraine became an entirely independent entity of international politics. Until then, the issue of Ukraine’s foreign policy course had been adjusted under the supervision and control of Moscow. Even our Western partners, in cooperation with us, looked at our northern neighbor. Over the past five years, we have made a radical change in this situation, and we have forced the world to see Ukraine as a great and powerful nation in the center of Europe. Thanks to the achievements of the diplomatic corps led by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, with the choice of the Ukrainian people, counts the whole world, and the whole world is convinced that we have chosen the path of Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine and, if necessary, will stand up for it. We are obliged to do so. For the sake of the heroes of the Celestial 100, for the sake of our warriors who have given their lives for our European future. Society unites around the idea of future membership in the EU and in the North Atlantic Alliance. A clear proof of this was the all - Ukrainian campaign of the Assembly of Signatures under the appeal of the members of the Supreme Council to support the changes initiated by the Head of State, Peter Dustenk, to the Constitution. Volunteers and activists from a wide variety of social organizations and political parties, known as public and political actors, joined the gathering of signatures. In a short period of time, more than a million signatures of Ukrainians were collected, demonstrating society’s determination to protect the foreign policy course of the State. I want the parliamentarians to see these signatures, to realize the full responsibility to their voters, to Ukraine’s future and to our children’s future. Final support for changes to the Constitution is not an empty formality, as we are trying to impose hidden and apparent pro-Russian forces in the Ukrainian politics. A similar experience of the constitutional consolidation of the foreign policy course was used by the Baltic countries on the eve of their accession to the Alliance, Romania, Montenegro, to make such changes to their constitutions for EU membership. All of these countries recognize the historic role of constitutional change for further European integration. The historic significance of tomorrow’s vote for Ukraine’s fate must be understood and appointed by the Supreme Council. You were approached by Ukrainians. On behalf of the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko, I would like to express my sincere thanks to activists and volunteers, some of whom are present today in the session hall and who have demonstrated their dedication to the Ukrainian people as the host of their own country and who will choose their future. And, dear fellows. Andrew Volodymyrovich, can I add 30 seconds? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u40	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u41	And, dear fellows, at 12:00 a.m., you can see these signatures in the towers of the Supreme Council and talk to part of the team that organized this nationwide action. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u42	Thank you. Next, a statement from the Fatherland and Self-Help factions. And the word for the speech is Chumaku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Victor Chumak, 214 District, Kiev, Civil Movement Wave, political party. Now it's started, the election campaign has started, and every day a bunch of manipulations and dirt are poured out on your heads. Sometimes you see on the Internet there are some recordings, some of them including sometimes the President's recordings, sometimes this video, sometimes it's audio recordings, it's audiovisual. No one ever asked where they came from. Who can record such information, and who can distribute such information in the country? As far as I'm concerned, private structures have a rather limited ability to distribute and capture such information, and the public authorities always have it. I'd like to go to the headquarters of all the presidential candidates, well, except for an active presidential candidate, because he's protected by a whole bunch of special services that are checking everything around him, checking carefully everything around you. I want to show the press on camera, I don't know who's going to be watching, these five devices that were found at the presidential headquarters of President Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenka. These are the launching devices. which will start video or audio recording of all the devices that may be in this room. I have a huge doubt that this could put some private law enforcement structure in place. I don't think it's going to work out without the intervention of the state here. But to whom? To the Attorney General? To the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, who is listening to practically all the deputies here? Or the Attorney General, who tells strange things, I've always told the Attorney General when he was sitting here in the hall watching, Yuri Vitaliovich, when you say something, you can always come out on yourself. And when I hear that there's been some huge break-up of the army in 2004 and 2005. I want to talk to those officials who are sitting here: Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. I don't know who else is sitting here, who are the ministers, who will tell you that all decisions to alienate the Ministry of Defense's technology and property are taken by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers! And Yuri Vitaliyovich was sitting there, sitting there, and being the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Why didn't he do anything? I would also like to remind you that at the time, Peter Alekseiovich Poroshenko, the more loyal secretary of the National Security Council, who ensured the country’s security. Moreover, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov was head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Then perhaps let us take a criminal case against those leaders who had a huge responsibility for the country’s security. Yuri Vitaliovich, you'll always be on your own. You're one of the active members of the same mafia group. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u44	And colleagues, a closing statement from two factions, from the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. And the word for the speech is given to Dudenkov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Now, it's not about specific issues that are being considered, it's about expressing their political positions. Parliament is a place for discussion, and it is indeed. But when you're witnessing a constant debate that's the whole point of transferring from empty to empty is happening, then just the scream of the soul is breaking out and I want to tell you that the authorities have forgotten about you, citizens of Ukraine. This power and this coalition are trying to distract you with questions of language, faith, the army. Tomorrow they will try to distract you with the issue of a strategic course on full membership in the European Union and NATO. It's an empty promise, they won't be able to make those promises come true. And the worst part is that they, and most cynically, that they consciously realize it, they won't be. Full membership in the European Union is not limited to the rights relating to the powers of the Supreme Council, the President, to make changes to the Preamble, but to the delegation by Ukraine of part of its sovereign powers. And that's what the Europeans are talking about. This is about the comment that these changes will be filled with real meaning. So power lives in this, you know, parallel reality: it lives its life, Ukrainian citizens don't live, they survive. Why is it not now said that it is necessary to make immediate changes to the budget this year regarding the write-off or restructuring of Ukraine's 50-billion-dollar debt for housing and utilities? Just think, in December 2018, the debt was increased by 7 billion dollars, and we're now being talked about some European standard of living. But those are empty words when you talk about Europeanism, on the one hand, and you don't want to notice the urgent, pressing issues that exist among citizens. Because this problem applies to every citizen. The Opposition Block insists that we now consider our exit-related legislative initiatives to restructure the population's debt for housing and utilities. 50 billion dollars is a catastrophic amount for the budget. But we don't have these problems, you don't have the moral right to translate into ordinary citizens. The Opposition Block also insists on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u47	That the meticulous policy of the state, which, on the one hand, aims to set large tariffs and, on the other hand, to install foam. People can't pay pennies when there's so much debt. Therefore, the issue of Penny and Debt must be resolved immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u48	So, colleagues, all statements from factions, statements that have been made, are completed, and we're moving on to the first question of order of the day. This is a draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change" (9129). And I'm voting on the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:50:16]] For-63 The decision is not taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u49	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! We will try to be concise to save time, for we have many important bills to consider today. For your consideration, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change” at registration number 9129 is proposed by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. In the proposed Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the National Academy of Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, the Scientific Institutions and the Public Organizations, which were presented on July 4, 2018 at these parliamentary hearings, are systematic and well-considered proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Central and Local Executive Authorities, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Branch Academy of Sciences, the Scientific Institutions and the Public Organizations. The main recommendations relate to the following issues: speeding up the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of climate change bills; developing a national climate change adaptation plan; ensuring the participation of Ukraine's representatives, experts in all international climate change measures and the negotiation process; adopting a programme to increase the forestry of Ukraine's territory; a plan of action for the development of conservation; a plan for environmental protection by 2020; a science and technology programme for climate change; improving carbon taxation; establishing an environmental fund; and improving the list of environmental protection measures; and launching regional climate initiatives. As well as the economic and scientific justification for Ukraine’s national contribution in accordance with Ukraine’s needs and priorities; the need to increase the welfare of Ukrainians, taking into account the indicators achieved in previous years; taking into account the interests of environmental conservation and preventing anthropogenic climate change as an indispensable ingredient in the development and adoption of legislation. Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees to hold the parliamentary hearings marked by the publication of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change" to be adopted in general. Please support the relevant draft of Supreme Council Regulation 9129. Dear colleagues, this is a really important document that we've been working on over the past year and a half. And it's a shame that there are so few people in the parliamentary room who would also like to support this document. So let's talk about and invite all of our colleagues to the hall right now and support the positive vote of the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Three minutes, question to the reporter. Please record who intends to question the reporter. One Ostap, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u51	Dear reporter Ivan Petrovich, after the parliamentary hearings, which I think were very important historical, in the walls of Parliament we raised such global issues, and in fact climate change, they are inevitable, and it will end, including the Ukrainian economy, and agriculture, and forestry. After these hearings and following the current discussions in Parliament, do you think that Ukrainian political elites are aware of the importance of this issue? And I think today's vote is going to be such a succinct understanding of the issues and the willingness to make important decisions. And whether there are enough specialists at the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources at the ministerial level who are paying enough attention to this issue, please tell me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u52	Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u53	As evidence of this, Mr. Ostapé, there is also a presence at this moment when we consider this important issue in our Parliamentary Hall of Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection. At the same time, we are well aware that both government and parliament and our committee are aware that climate change is countering the contradictions between nations and states today, because it is a global threat. It can be placed at one level with the threat of terrorism and all the threats that today are and are faced by society and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u54	Thank you. And now please ask me a question from. The People’s Deputy, Boguslaev, conveys the word to Shahov. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u55	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Ivan Petrovich, this is a very important issue and a world issue. The climate is a problem at all. You see, nature is giving Ukraine subsidies today to Ukrainians, and politicians are not giving subsidies to the Ukrainian people today. I have a question. An empty hall today. Maybe we should take this question off the table, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u56	Please answer your question, Mr. Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u57	Indeed, the importance of this issue has long been determined, since 154 countries of the world signed the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in 1992. Unfortunately, however, many of our colleagues do not understand this, so today there are very few people in the parliamentary room who will support and vote in favour of the relevant draft decree. Whether there is a procedural possibility, let us consult on how we can really translate this decision into a negative vote today in the Hall for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this concludes the question to the reporter. And I now ask my honourable colleagues to sign up for a ruling from MPs and factions. Please, Sergey Lechchenka, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u59	Thank you. I can only say, by decree, that it should be accepted, except that the votes in the session room are not due to the fact that Parliament is destabilized, demoralized at the fourth year of its existence, because it was initially chosen by a system that envisions corruption and bribery by purchasing major districts. And this technology, which was used in the 14th year, is now being used again in the 19th century. And all the districts are sown generously and in Greek and in money, and verticals are created to bribe voters both in the election of the President and in the election to the future Supreme Council of Ukraine. And without changing the election system, we won't change anything. And to change the law, you only have to put it to a vote once, because the first reading was approved almost a year and a half ago. And I have a question for the chairman of the meeting. Why is it that for one and a half years, the law does not apply to second reading in order to abolish this shameful system of elections when voices are bribed? And the second question. Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at the opening of the session, has pointed out that, of course, Parliament is a place for discussion, we have to speak out, discuss from any political issue, including the future procedure of elections and the system, but during appropriate statements on Wednesday or Friday. And when we discuss drafts, we have to speak exclusively on the subject of drafts, with all due respect. Please hold for one and a half minutes, Mr. Leschchenko, I ask you to join me in discussing the draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change." Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u61	Thank you for your reaction to my performance. But you know very well that this decision will not be adopted today because Parliament is completely demoralized. And of course, we can sustain this decision indefinitely because it is Ukraine’s accession to international commitments. But in this way, by simply sabotaging Parliament's work, we undermine Ukraine's ability to join the world's processes. And the reason I'm going to repeat it is that corruption prevails both in the session room and in the President's Office. And now, in Connonka County, in Granowski County, other "watching" presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking the next speaker. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to. Dear colleagues, see, Parliament is a place for discussion and for the implementation of the Rules and for the implementation of the Rules. Don't interrupt me, please. According to the Rules, and as the honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has stressed, we now have to discuss the draft Regulation on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change". As for the performances under "Rizzne," it's Friday and Wednesday. Thank you very much. The next performance is Boguslaev, a national MP. Dear Boguslael, present your position. He gives his word to his colleague Vladimir Litvina. Please, Mr. Litwin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, all that the National MPs say in the session room, all of this affects climate, including environmental, political climate, and they have an absolute right to do so. That's the first one. And secondly, we obviously need to accept the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations, especially that Ukraine, when selling quotas on greenhouse emissions, is getting some money from this point of view. But, at the same time, it would be important to examine where these funds are going, and how are they being used, and again, who is creating their own economic climate and prosperity? At the same time, I will again touch on the subject that is directly related to the climate, which is an environmental problem. As long as we're with you, dear colleagues, we're discussing this very important issue, which is troubling the entire country society, we're continuing the discharge of the Ponnickian cardboard-paper combination, and we're poisoning huge areas. I had to say yesterday, over the course of three years, I've been dealing with this problem, and at the same time, there's no response from government law enforcement. There's only simulation of the process. The logical question is, why didn't the Poninkow paper combination pollute the environment, poison people's lives four years ago? The answer is obvious. At that time, the real owners of the company apparently did not have access to power or were not, in fact, in authority, because the ultimate owner of the structure was absolutely impossible to determine. I remind you once again, fellow officers of honor, and I address the presiding officer. In general, nearly 14,000 square miles [14,000 sq km] are poisoned. Most people use water as drinking water from the rivers of Gomorrah and the Sun. Please tell us what further requests are needed for the President, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs to solve this problem? I appeal to our institutions of power to declare this territory an ecological disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u64	Thank you for speaking on the subject of the draft decision. Dear colleagues, there are only two factions who have been able to speak, this is the Peter Prashenko Block. Mr. Barna was from Peter Dustenk's Block. Sergey Lechchenko, I can't give you my word because your colleague by the faction had a word now. And that's why I want to go to other MP groups and factions, People's Front, Fatherhood, Self-Help, Opposition Block. Are there those who have not been able to sign up for environmental discussions? None. I can't give my word, but I can announce a recording by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. And while the record goes on, the chairman was asked by one of the national deputies about the law that should be passed on to the second reading. According to the Bureau, the honourable Mr. Sergio, a bill on elections to Parliament was drafted by the relevant working group. There were 4,000 amendments, it's a long enough term, as you know, accepting these amendments, considering them. And the committee's supposed to give this law to the Supreme Council, and we're going to put it right now, of course, for consideration. And, please, the national deputy Leonid Jemetz is now invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, once again, according to the Project Decision, our faction, as I personally, absolutely support it, must be accepted. But the reality remains: there are currently no votes needed to make any decisions in this session room. And I would like to remind my colleagues that, according to the substance and text of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, every national MP has the right to speak in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, if that statement is not an insult. And on a large scale, the way a national MP formulates his position, well, there's no right to be treated either by the chairman of the Supreme Council or by any other than as voters who conclude by political choice and support of this candidate and deputy in the next parliamentary election. So, my fellow Members, I think that the practice that someone is deciding whether or not there is an essentially discussed question of a national MP is too subjective a question that cannot be raised in this way in the Ukrainian Parliament. Every national MP has the right to express his position in the way he considers it necessary, if it is certainly not an insult or an insult to other Ukrainian citizens, other people, is not an encroachment on state sovereignty. And these are the standards defined by the Constitution, these are those defined by the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the Law on the Rules. So I strongly suggest that we all remember that every national MP is a representative of the Ukrainian people, and he expresses the will and position that the Ukrainian people have given him by giving him a mandate and representation in the single legislative body. Thank you. With all due respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. I also, with all due respect, thank you very much for these remarks. And as a member of our joint delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as chairman, I also try to follow the rules that are in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where there are free debates, and during which they can be presented on any subject. But if an MP speaking during a specific resolution begins to speak on another free subject, the chairman will turn off the microphone. That's why I'm here to make sure we have one rule in Strasbourg and Kiev. Thank you very much. And now for the word, please, to your esteemed colleague Barney. Barney's comments were made. I repeat to Mr. Barna that we are now discussing the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change." And please, no non-parliamentary language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u67	Lexics is purely parliamentary and refers to the ecology of Ukraine as a whole and primarily to the ecology of Parliament. I am a major, chosen by the three regions of southern Ternopolska. There are environmental problems in the district, too. But these environmental problems cannot be eradicated and, accordingly, eliminated if there is no normal ecology in Parliament, when this political cynicism is not eradicated in Parliament by people who have been wandering from the Peter Prashenko Party list, they are criticizing the President and the Party, and now they are cynically afraid to impose authorization.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u68	Mr. Oleg, I very much ask that the presiding officer not be accused of being discriminatory in relation to one or the other MPs. Please, I'm sure this is a very relevant topic for your district. Your two minutes, but it's about ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u69	We all need to come to European and world standards of compliance with environmental legislation, and Ukraine must come to this limit. And besides, we should all move away from political prostitution and political corruption, where journalists allow themselves to buy apartments for 7 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u70	Thank you, thank you. Next, please, a statement from the national deputy of Jurik. Dear colleagues, I'm really not a teacher in a colony for difficult adolescents. I very much ask that we observe all the Rules. Please, Deputy Juric. Please, Juric, a national MP. He's giving the word to the National Deputy Barney. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u71	Therefore, Ukraine’s honourable deputies, the only source of power, are the people who exercise their authority by representing the national MPs. And it is only the majority election system that is national. That's why I advise some politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u72	Thank you, thank you. Please give the next speech by the National MP of Sporish. Thank you very much. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're discussing, I'm going to remind you that maybe someone got mixed up in the agenda, we're not yet discussing changes to the Constitution and amendments to the Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We now have a day-to-day draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change." Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u73	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, I support Irina Heratschenko, and we really should talk on the subject. And all the factions in independence, whether it's Peter Dustenka's Block, or it's Fatherland, or it's other factions, we really need to discuss today's topic. And so they should. And we really need to focus on this, because, of course, we would like this draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation to be implemented, because we have to do everything in our Ukraine to make sure that all these international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change are implemented. And I think it was in vain that all of this was discussed at parliamentary hearings, and it would be a meal if we didn't accept it today. Because, of course, I wanted all of these. was introduced, as John Rybak said, a bill on climate change. Because this is, indeed, the more painful issue today, we have to follow the example of Europe, we have to follow the example of the world as it is done. Because, of course, we have a plan of action for the environment, but we see beautifully that we're doing pretty weakly in that direction. So I would like to support the committee, support the draft decision, and we should all take it together. Because it's very important that we actually have our environment. We know perfectly well, and we're breathing this table of Mendeleeva that is today. And I think if we do. If we do all the measures that will contribute to this, so that whatever our environment is best, so that we can do everything we can to make these changes that we have in nature today, they would actually be much better and better. So I call for us to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u74	We thank you so much for the constructive presentation. And now Borislav Bereza is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u75	Good afternoon! Mrs. Irina, I regret to draw your attention to what really is a very important subject, but there are no votes in the room to vote on. And unfortunately, there are about 100 deputies in the hall right now. So any debate that goes on will lead to nothing. And I would appreciate it very much if you would now put the ratings vote and see what's going on. Because, unfortunately, if we fail again. As yesterday was, we'll fail to adopt any bill, regulation or resolution again -- independently, well, that won't give us bonuses as a parliament in the eyes of Ukrainians. And I'm paying attention to that. If you invite people who might be in Parliament right now, maybe they can come to Parliament, maybe they're on committees, maybe someone's working, but it would be more useful for all of us if we could actually vote positive today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u76	Thank you very much. I agree with those people's deputies, particularly Mr. Lechchenko and Mr. Bereza, who have urged everyone to return to the session room. And I'm talking to my colleagues, who are literally going to be voting in 10 minutes. We started the session, of course the deputies should be in the workplace. Now we have the Deputy of Trelyakow giving the floor to the national MP Barney. Please, Mr. Oleg, you're just a solo during the performances today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u77	Once again, I am addressing the people and people of Ukraine: if we want to live as we do in Europe, according to European standards, we must move to European values, to European attitudes to work, to European attitudes to our state, to European taxes, and, above all, to European attitudes to our country, to Europe. How it's done in Europe, in nature, in nature, in nature. And it's obviously only those people, those MPs who are representatives of the people, that can do it. Again, not from party oligarchic clans or parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u78	Thank you, thank you very much, dear colleague. And the next one, please, is given to the national deputy of Rybaku. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak. National MP Ivan Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, before your consideration, our committee's draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments for the prevention of anthropogenic climate change" has been widely discussed on this document as well as on our committee's site, and today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. But unfortunately, I can see and, speaking to our colleagues here in the hall, we realize that there is no chance of taking this decision in the hall right now. So I'm asking respectable colleagues after negative or positive. After a negative decision has been made, now during the vote, move this document and consider it soon again, because it is very important to the Ukrainian State and to the image of Ukraine abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u80	Thank you, Sir John. Please welcome National Deputy Sergei Melnichuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u81	Indeed, the document is important and the number of deputies today will not be able to vote. But I would still like this topic to be, well, Parliamentary hearings on this subject should be held, because environmental security, which is not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world, has an impact on it. We have to keep an eye on it. Many of the businesses that we have worked and worked for us have to put up modern technology safety complexes, and that's not what we do. And if anyone has one, it's just stupid for these, let's say, it's going to cost money, and it doesn't work, so it's going to blow up the gas pipelines, it's going to leak on the ammonia pipelines, and so on and so forth. And it needs to be monitored for appropriate organs. And the subject needs to be raised and followed up, and so that the controlling authorities don't just take credits and take bribes, but actually control and make the right prescriptions, and shut down businesses that don't want to control the process, because it can affect thousands and maybe even millions of people, it's our security not just the Ukrainians, but the whole world. So I'm also supporting John Rybak, and we have to move the data, well, the question, and vote another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Sergey Lechchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u83	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! I'll finish my speech, which was interrupted by the chairman, and it's about the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament will never work in the interests of citizens and adopt the laws necessary to transform Ukraine into a wealthy modern country if we don't clear the politics of corruption and vote bribery, which is already happening in districts called Connonenko, Granovski, the people in the powdery environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. And the next talk we have, so I take it, ending in this block, is the People's Deputy of Ostap Eden. Mr. Ostap! National deputy Shahov, please. National deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u85	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, today in the hall, there really is not enough national MPs to be in their jobs. This is an important decision not only for Ukraine but for the whole world because of the environmental situation in Ukraine. Believe me, there's a better environment in Chernobyl today than in Kiev and in any area at all. When I go to Luhansk, believe me, the heart is filled with blood, when in Reuben City people cannot breathe today from the feces that polluted the entire city today. When I go to Lysichansk, my parents complain that children have an acetic disease, when people today get their hair off that any business today is not working to clean up the environment properly, and they're not treating it clean at all. Today it's the water canals. It's impossible to drink today, I drank tap water when I was a kid, and today I can't do it because it's all polluted at every turn. And at this point, John Petrovich, I also thank you for this determination being in the order of the day. But we do not have the right to fail it today, so it is vital that we assemble the national deputies or send them for work and set it up the next time. And now we have no right not to accept this decision that our children should live with normal air, with normal water, with normal forests, with green meadows, and should remain an inheritance to our children, a normal environment, a normal environment. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u86	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussions with the Ukrainian National Deputies on the draft Recommendation of Parliamentary Hearings. But I've been approached by a few factions who haven't been able to sign up for a discussion, especially the Self-Help faction. And I give you my word, please, Mrs. Annie Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u87	Anna Romanova, Self Help Union. Of course, we will vote in favour of this decree very important. Because bad ecology affects both the life expectancy of the population and the country’s tourist attraction. And sometimes, if you're taking on Ukrainian reality, it's just bad ecology that can manipulate dirty political games. What do I mean? In Ukraine, 35,000 unsanctioned garbage dumps, about 6,000 official landfills loaded with garbage, and their exploitation dates back to the 1990s. But nothing can be done about it because there is no garbage factory in Ukraine. In fact, every mayor of every city today is a hostage of that situation, if, God forbid, something happens to this garbage range, he won't know what to do, because the garbage treatment plant, it turns out, is quite difficult to build in our reality. What does that mean? It is not enough that there have been bills in the Supreme Council for several years that create attractive conditions for investors, but for some reason they do not enter the Hall. Moreover, if Mayor Lvov finds European funds, the EBRD's funds to build the first modern garbage treatment plant in Ukraine, the head of the Lviv government at a public meeting with activists said he saw no point in building this plant. And he's going to ask the minister of ecology to block even the construction of such a factory. So we have a very big question and a request, first of all, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, not to manipulate the President with garbage, to leave Ukraine in peace, and to allow city mayors to involve investors, as well as international European organisations, and to solve the environmental problems that all of Ukraine faces. And if we don't take immediate action now, if we don't take effective, effective concepts of how to deal with solid household wastes, because they really are for a galley, but as you can see, they don't work, the garbage as it was, so it lies on the slopes of our country, we are very soon, life, duration, the population of Ukraine will decrease even more. It is the lowest in Europe right now, and so we are waiting for Ukraine to become the world's worst environmental and least sustainable country in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u88	Colleagues, I'm about to make a closing statement and I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for a decision. Heads of factions, please invite all deputies to the Hall. In three or four minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. Igor Shurma is now invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u89	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I am now addressing Ukrainian citizens, who listen carefully to what is happening in the Supreme Council. Think about it, today we are talking about the need to make a decision on the ruling and recommendation of parliamentary hearings, which is about the active participation of the delegation of Ukraine, which should support the international level of Ukraine, the image, as an active participant in global climate action. Because there are no people in the hall, today we need to hear that in Lviv's intercom between members of the coalition, Lviv is associated with all of Ukraine as a city of garbage. Do you have a conscience at all? When you need it, you go to the city of Lviv as a cultural capital, and now you call Lviv as an example that you can't handle garbage. So I want to remind you that today's governor of the Lviv region is the former first deputy of the city's head. And you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u90	Please turn off the microphone. Mr. Igor, I would like to point out to you that the speeches should go on the subject of this bill. And that's it. We also have the opportunity to make statements from two factions, and we have the opportunity to speak from factions and from performances. I'm asking you on the subject of the bill. Please turn on the microphone, finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. I'm on the subject. As far as ecology is concerned. Andriy Volodymyrovich, before I say ecologically, I want to go to the hall anyway so you don't have to be put on your side of the defense. Well, look, our colleagues who chose the European choice say let's move on to tomorrow, because it's an important decision. So tell me, please, and let's transfer to the post-after-after tomorrow the salary payments to MPs who don't go to the hall today. Well, what's wrong with that? Well, it's the Rules. We must vote today, we must all vote. They're not in the hall, and they're getting paid. So let them say that we have 30,000 deputies today. Another 30,000 non-members. Wednesday's $60,000 can be come, voted in favour of a decree regarding the ecology and the international image of Ukraine, can't we come? Why do we today have to take on all this negative? Well, you don't want to deal with opposition -- there's no question, well, let the coalition come together and raise 226 votes. Why should the leadership of the Supreme Council take time today? Why did the question of Lviv arise? Because they're pulling the rubber, because we have to get to lunch sometime. There are no votes. And this is another time. And this is a matter primarily of the Rules and the question of coalition. Is that your European choice? I don't think anyone needs that kind of European choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u92	Mr. Igor, I would like to inform you and all those present that, according to the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to those MPs who are absent, the salary for that day is not paid. But unfortunately, for many deputies, it's not a big problem, it's the cost that's being paid. I'm sorry. And I fully support your position that there should be deputies in the workplace during Parliament's work. And I fully agree with the fact that it is impossible to stay in any other place during work than it is in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now it's closing. How many, two minutes? One minute. One minute is the closing word. In a minute, we move on to making a decision. I ask you to invite the heads of factions and the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, the closing statement is accepted by Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u93	Respectful colleagues, aware of recent significant floods, climate change is all the result of a careless attitude towards the environment. The recommendations of these parliamentary hearings mark clear things that we should do, including in the Ukrainian Parliament, including in the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, to prevent climate change from occurring in the environment. Dear colleagues, let's support this, because tomorrow depends on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u94	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, we're done here, and we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. And also from the bed, so that we don't go back to voting, I'm asking you to take jobs. Ready, colleagues? I really am. Not everyone gets out of bed to vote. I don't want to call it a last name, but I'll have to. Mr. Bakumenko, we can't just make it. Mr. Bakumenko! Colleagues from the bed, I ask you to prepare for the vote, and there will be a vote now. Deputy Ostrikov is ready. So I'm voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Implementation in Ukraine of international instruments to prevent anthropogenic climate change" (No. 9129) proposed by the Committee as a whole. Please vote for everyone, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[11:31:52]] For-152. Unfortunately, it's too much of a breakup. I'll read the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 55, People's Front – 43, Opposition Block – 2, Self-help – 16, Parenthood – 4, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 6, and non-fractional – 23. I'm not even going to bet on a return. Too big a breakup, colleagues. And unfortunately, I'm forced to announce that the 9-1-1-2 draft has been rejected. I'm asking you to reschedule. I hope that next time we will be able to unite around the issue of ecology. And, colleagues, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, we are now going to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the principles of procedural justice and improve the efficiency of conduct in cases of violations of economic competition legislation (6746). This bill has a significant number of rights, 172. There are many who have been rejected. That's why both the committee and the authors of the law provide for a lively discussion. But in our tradition, we will be able to have a discussion on Wednesday so that we can move on to making a decision tomorrow. I hope there's a high concentration tomorrow. I remind you, there will be changes to the Constitution tomorrow. And I wanted to do another message. The committee suggested that a member of the Committee should make a presentation. The amendments will be followed directly by the chairman of the committee, Andri Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk. Ivanchuk. And they asked for a little more time. How long does it take, Victoria, 5.7 minutes? Yes. Let's give it 7 minutes when it's necessary, I'll add. So that she can explain all the details of the draft Law. No one is denying it in the hall, so I invite a member of the Committee on Economic Policy, Victoria Ptashnik, to report. Please. Tables are all given out. And I ask the authors to prepare themselves for discussion. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u95	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today, I am introducing to you a bill on ensuring the principles of procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct in cases of violations of economic competition legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill was drafted to implement the Association Agreement with the European Union, article 255 of which speaks of the importance of applying competition legislation in a transparent, timely and non-discriminatory manner and with respect for the principles of procedural justice and the right to defence. This bill was carefully drafted by the Economic Policy Committee and prepared for its second reading. We have considered all the adjustments that have come. In particular, I would like to point out that only seven national MPs have amended this bill. These are deputies such as Ptašnik, Sážko, Prodan, Ivanchuk, Semenich, Markevitch, and Shkrum. 173 repairs were made. Of these, 70 are counted. I'm sorry, 57 were counted. Oh, wrong. 83, accounted for. Partially accounted for 15. Accordingly, 75 amendments have been rejected. This project was developed at the time by the Competition Rights Committee of the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. He is supported by honest and transparent business. The business that advocates transparent competition is so that there are clear rules on the market and that individual oligarchs are not able to negotiate with the Antimonopoly Committee and close their business without finding out any violations. In particular, I was approached by business associations such as the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce, which submitted their letters to support this bill, and called for its consideration in the Supreme Council as soon as possible. By this bill, we are proposing two really important clusters of issues. On the one hand, we want to give the Antimonopoly Committee tools to investigate and complete a positive review of the most dangerous distortions in the field of competition. These include such violations as cartels, such violations as other anticompetitive concerted acts, and the abuse of monopolistic dominant status. On the other hand, we propose to establish fair and transparent rules for business and to set clear procedural rules for those who take part in matters so that they can protect themselves and the Antimonopoly Committee against certain abuses that officials may commit and, on the other hand, that individual subjects who are applicants for competition infringements may also be able to protect and enforce their rights in the Antimonopoly Committee. For the second reading, the editorial that you are currently offered offers such novels. First of all, we suggest that we introduce specific lines during which the Antimonopoly Committee should consider competition cases. Moreover, unlike the first reading, we offer to differentiate these terms of reference, which will depend precisely on the difficulty of individual matters. In particular, the overall time frame for handling matters should be 2 years. For such dangerous violations as cartels, we offer five years. And those things that, for example, do not require such a huge time frame to investigate them, such as, for example, concentration distortions or non-conformity, we suggest that we set one year. There are also certain mechanisms for abuse of control that, we realize, may delay the handling of matters in order to make it impossible to deal with matters properly. In particular, we have just foreseen a procedure to continue the case and six months in if such abuses are observed. We also suggest that the procedural rights of those who take part in matters be strengthened. In particular, rights such as the right to be familiar with matters; the right to copy the material of the case; the right to know where the violation is actually suspected by a particular subject; the right to claim diversions. And I'm pointing out that this is the first time at the legislative level that we're proposing such a right when a particular company can claim a withdrawal from a state-authorized Antimonopoly committee, if that indiscreetly, unfairly, indistinctly conducts a particular matter, and such a departure is to be satisfied. We also propose that mechanisms such as the dispute settlement procedure, which essentially means reaching an agreement between the Antimonopoly Committee authorities and the respondent on the proof of the circumstances of the infringement, allowing the Antimonopoly Committee to complete the case more quickly and then release its certain working resources to other cases and perform other functions, and that the respondent, on his part, will be given the legal responsibility to reduce the fine. I want to say that this processual institution is being used in many European countries of the European Union. It is also used in the United States, and it is one of the most effective tools for investigating cartel cases. These are the most dangerous violations that can actually be committed in individual markets. In fact, we are also this institution. If the whole law is proposed to take effect within three months of its adoption and corresponding publication, then the settlement procedure. Obviously, it needs more perfect training. So we've suggested that it will become effective, all of these rules that apply to the settlement procedure since 2020. So today I am going to urge you to unite your efforts and adopt this bill, as we are now considering a second reading. And I want to remind you that when we first looked at it in the second reading, the individual national MPs, who are, unfortunately, the oligarchs in this session hall, they blocked it, they didn't vote, they tried to get out of the hall, they shouted at each other, they resounded, but then they didn't give their votes. So I hope that today we can still get to the positive vote and accept this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria, for giving a detailed lecture on the draft law. I'm inviting the head of the committee to the microphone now. And then, the right-wing authors, please get ready for work. Likewise, which corrections are rejected, I'm going to read them, who wants to be confirmed, by raising their hand. Mr. Andrew, how long will you be? In three minutes. Please, head of the committee. And, right-wing authors, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u97	Good afternoon, Andry Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, see the following article. Second reading of the Victorian Bird Bill, 6746. I would like to say that the bill is primarily designed to amend the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Part of this is supplemented by articles regulating the procedure for dealing with violations of economic competition legislation (this article 35), in the case file (this article 37). The content of article 39 "People taking part in the case" and article 40 "The rights of persons taking part in the case" is also greatly expanded. It is introduced, it should be noted, the new legal institution is a settlement procedure for anti-competitive concerted action (46 articles). A new article 52 is also added, which provides in detail the basis and procedure for discharge and reduction of fines for anticompetitive actions and other novelties. That's why the committee made the decision. I would like to say that 173 amendments to the bill were made to the people's deputies. 84 is counted, 75 is rejected and 14 is partially counted. Therefore, the Committee has decided from economic policy to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law with technical and legal rights, because the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council has drawn attention to certain technical and legal inaccuracies that we would have settled in the preparatory phase for you, Mr. Head, to the signature. So let's move on to the revisions. And I'm asking everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u98	Thank you. So let's move on to the right-hand side, and I'll sound rejected. 1st, Sažko. Turn on the mic, Sažko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u99	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency. The first amendment was rejected in wording: it contains an overly detailed description of the activities with the AMC. I don't agree with that, and I'm asking you to put this amendment on record. The more it is described, the more detailed it will be, the less curves there will be to deal with these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u100	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Sažko, we didn't mean that it was too detailed a description, just the proposed positions, and so they are provided in the bill. And we, when we considered it, were your helpers, what these laws are, they're just prescribed, and we don't need to duplicate them by name in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u102	Thank you. But the national MP insists on voting. And I'm voting on amendment number one. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[11:45:42]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Four, five. Don't insist. 7 rows. Mr. Sažko! Don't insist, 7 amendment. 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Sold. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u103	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! I thank the committee for supporting much of my amendments for supporting my position. At the same time, I'm now and now, and I'm going to continue to sound those amendments that I didn't support the committee, and I'm going to argue why I'm insisting on them. This amendment refers to the fact that cases of violations of economic competition legislation should be dealt with no later than 1 year from their inception. The committee's decision is set in size. Not more than 2 years. I think it's a long term, and it's still necessary to set a general standard -- a year, and it's already a separate matter that requires more time to do more. Because we have to remember that writing laws are one thing, but when a small, medium-sized business is protected from monopolies, it is forced to work while the Antimonopoly Committee is conducting its investigation. So I'm asking you to put one year into the project and I'm asking you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u104	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u105	Mrs. Oksana, we simply accepted the amendment of the Ptashnik People's Deputy Committee and changed the term to two years, so we didn't count your amendment. But I think we've reached such a consensus, and we've heard your proposal to shorten the term, but we've cut it down not to 1 year, but to 2. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Well. Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I was just figuring it out, I can hear you. We haven't voted yet. Dear colleague, 9th Amendment. Is everyone hearing now? Great. I'm asking you to make nine adjustments. And then it's going to be 7-a. I'd like you to tell me by nine. The committee's asking you to support it. Oh, don't back me up. The committee's not asking for support. I disorganized the hall. I'm sorry. [[11:48:18]] For-48 The author asks for support, the author to support, the committee not to support. The result is 48 votes. Please, 7 amendments, this is the amendment of the Sage People's Deputies. And please turn on his microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u107	Sergey Sazko, Opposition Block. This amendment refers to the reasons for the initiation of the review. They didn't count it. I'm asking her to confirm that the room supports my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Sažko, you understand, in principle, the idea is not a bad one, but the basis for the initiation of the proceedings, as well as the actions of the AMCA authorities, is set out in articles 35 and 36 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, We have another bill, 6723, and we have approached it comprehensively, and it proposes appropriate changes to article 36, which do not comply with your proposed amendment. That's why we didn't support your amendment by name in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u110	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 7th amendment, dear colleagues. [[11:49:47]] For-45 Correction not accepted. Next 10th. It's an amendment of the Pteshnik People's Chamber, it's counted. But Mrs. Birdie requires words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to comment on the amendment that has been voted on. did not vote on the amendment to Ms. Sold No. 9, and was not supported by this room. I want to explain to you that the bill provides for a differentiated approach to the timelines during which investigations are to take place in the Antimonopoly Committee. I want to draw your attention, particularly to Mrs. Oksana, to the explanatory note and, for example, to page 17, on which we clearly refer and analyze the European Commission's case as they are being considered in the European Union. And there's a reference to certain things that, for example, in the European Union, lasted for nine years, their consideration. But after, for example, they introduced a settlement procedure, the review declined and became an average of 15 months. So one year is definitely not appropriate to predict, and a differentiated approach will allow for a normal, normal pace of consideration and approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u112	Thank you. As we understand it, Mrs. Bird is not insisting on voting on this amendment. Moreover, it was fully accepted by the committee, and only wanted to express its position regarding both the amendment and the law. Next 11th. This is an amendment from our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Oksana, for sale, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u113	Dear Irina Volodymyrna, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment, because it actually says that part of the cases of violations of economic competition legislation can be considered as adopted by the committee for six months. I insist that they be looked at for three months. Explain why. Because the list of issues that are going to be considered on these issues is the failure to implement the previous decision of the Antimonopoly Committee, it's the failure to provide information to the Antimonopoly Committee or the provision of unreliable information, or even the obstruction of the Antimonopoly Committee. And for six months, I consider these cases a crime. So it's a maximum of three months. Please place the table in the final line and please support the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u114	Please comment to the committee head on the 11th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u115	Dear Mrs. Prodan, the logic, in principle, is, but only in terms of efficiency, and in terms of how it is implemented and implemented, it has a double treatment. And we've taken into account the amendment made by the Ptishnik people's deputy completely in advance, so unfortunately, your amendment to the committee was rejected. But I am. When I vote for her confirmation, I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u116	Please determine the 11th amendment. [[11:53:08]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 12. Please, the Ptishnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u117	I'd like to explain the relevance and predictability of the 6-month period for colleagues who are going to be voted in favour of the law as a whole. Please note that at the end of a given period, the matter will be closed. And it is evident that individual owners may abuse their rights. And when we set a 3-month deadline, it'll just mean that the Antimonopoly Committee will close the relevant cases for lack of evidence. Because when he's breaking a specific matter, he needs to gather information, an appropriate request from the host subject to submit, get an appropriate correspondence from him, then organize appropriate hearings, communicate them, bring them to a specific committee meeting. So a three-month term, as far as I'm concerned, is to set a three-month deadline, and just to prevent some abuse, we've analyzed European practice, and we've just foreseen a six-month term in the law for certain categories of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u118	Thank you. Please move on because Mrs. Bird is not insisting on the vote of the 12 amendments that have been taken into account. 13 amendments. It will be presented by our distinguished colleague Mrs. Ostrikova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u119	Good afternoon. Thank you to Andria Ivanchuk, the most reforming committee on entrepreneurship and the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. The 13 amendments are partially taken into account and, unfortunately, are not included in the section where it is proposed to specify that the Antimonopoly Committee may stop a case of infringement of economic competition legislation against the acquisition of legal force or the decision of the court appropriate, or the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee in another related case, except where the collected evidence allows for the establishment and assessment of the circumstances and facts that are the subject of the case. This clarification is aimed at avoiding an unjustified closure of the case, since considering the possibility of stopping the case from being dealt with in a related case, the time frame will be artificially prolonged and this may be a way to block the adoption of the necessary decisions by the Antimonopal Committee. So please put her to the vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u120	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u121	I'm very honored by Mrs. Ostrikova, a little bit different, because we've taken partial consideration of the amendment of the People's Deputies of Semimenach. And in the table that you're offered, you don't see how much of this amendment we've taken into account, but in article 38, because they apply, these proposed revisions, the suspension of the case. And they are taken into account in article 38. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u122	Thank you. So, colleagues, I emphasize that Mrs. Ostrikova requires that we put Amendment 13 to the vote in full version of the authors, and the committee head proposes that we support her in the drafting of her partial consideration, as the committee has accepted. I'd like to make a statement. Yeah, yeah. If the amendment is not supported in the author's version, it will remain in the committee's editorial form, partially accounted for completely. [[11:57:02]] For-53 53 is in favour, that is, the amendment remains in the version that the committee counted. Next amendment 15. Please, Mrs. Prodan Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, honourable representatives of the committee, on the one hand, you're saying that you're setting up an obligation for the Antimonopoly Committee to take matters up, to make the right decisions, on the other hand, you're creating such a small corrupt opportunity to delay the proceedings and simply not acknowledge whether it's a monopoly, or any other infringement by the monopolies, because it's just been considered for a long time. That's why I insist that this point 5 that is set at 15 is rejected. Because this lasagna, which is being created, makes it possible for the Antimonopoly Committee, without considering the matter, by delaying the deadline, to refuse to satisfy the complaint. Please vote. Put to the vote and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u124	Thank you. I ask the committee head to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u125	Dear Mrs. Oksana, I always support your initiatives, I always agree with you, but in this case I'd like to say that I'm looking at it at a different angle. If the Antimonopoly Committee is set to set deadlines for dealing with a case, they are called upon to investigate the case and have to prove a violation of the subject. But if the breach during this time limit has not been proved, I strongly insist that the matter should be closed. When you say that this will give some manipulation, we follow a completely different logic, we don't want the Antimonopoly Committee to be able to open the case and investigate it indefinitely, and the subject will be in suspended condition. So there's a boundary term, the Antimonopoly Committee has to prove a violation. If he can't do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u126	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. I'm going to remind you that this is Amendment 15. [[11:59:31]] For-46 The correction is being rejected. The next 16 amendments. Ostrikov's national MP, please present her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the 16 amendment proposes paragraph 7 of paragraph 2 of section 1 and to delete the bill. And what does that mean? This means that the amendment excludes an ineffective law on the closure of the case, since the bill proposes to close the case in connection with failure to commit a crime if the decision on the case is not taken by the Antimonopoly Committee within the time limit. In fact, in practice, this will mean that we are actually creating a scheme where the Antimonopoly Committee can agree with the defendant in the matter and not make a decision until the deadline is reached, after which the matter will be closed. Thus, this rule does not encourage time and, on the contrary, it contains corruption risks that will be prolonged deliberately. So I ask that the amendment be put to the vote and I ask that the Chamber support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u128	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u129	Such beautiful representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament, such prominent reformers themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u130	It's sexism. I ask you very much to avoid sexist claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u131	I'm sorry. Then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u132	I very much ask, Your Honor, a handsome MP, to mention that everyone here is smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u133	Thank you very much for your observation, Mrs. Irina. But what first is a chicken or an egg? What should be ahead — a horse or a fiddle? If the Antimonopoly Committee has already violated the subject’s case, what agreement can be discussed between the Antimonopoly Committee? He sees a violation. And when he breaks a case, he starts to have a deadline when he has to prove it. And when you say that this will allow for some kind of conspiracy to join the Antimonopoly Committee with the subject, that's a bit of a lie. Since action had taken place before, the Antimonopoly Committee had broken the case, and the time was running out to prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u134	Thank you for explaining the position of the committee on Amendment 16. Dear colleagues, please make up your mind. The author insists that she be taken fully into account, and the committee head asks that the committee be edited. Please make up your mind. [[12:02:18]] For-69 The amendment is rejected and taken into account by the committee. And our lovely committee head reminds me that I am the chairman. Yeah, it's sexism. Our committee head reminds us as chairman that I am in violation of the rules of the Rules and have not announced a recess for two minutes. Dear colleagues, MPs and MPs of the Ukrainian Parliament, I announce a recess of up to 12 hours for 35 minutes. Please return to work in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, I ask all Ukrainian national deputies to return to the session hall after recess. We will continue our plenary session. And I would like to remind both the Ukrainian people's deputies and our distinguished audiences and the audience that Parliament is now considering a second reading of the draft Law amending certain laws on procedural justice and improving the efficiency of conduct in matters of illegality and protection of economic competition (registration number 6746). Until the break, you and I have considered Amendment 16. And we're starting work just beyond the bill, which is very important, which is what our entrepreneurs are expecting. 17 amendments - partially included. National MP Sažko does not insist on it. And now the Ptishnik National MP is asking us to give her the 18th Amendment word. She was considered a committee, but the author insists. Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I'd like to look again at you and draw your attention to two amendments that were not supported by the hall, but I would like to explain, 15th and 16th, the logic of our committee, why they were not supported. The amendments were just proposed to clear up the rule that the Antimonopoly Committee should close the cases after the deadlines that we had proposed to deal with the cases in the area of competition. And that's exactly what they want to do. But I'm going to tell you that if this rule is ruled out, this is going to ruin this absolutely wonderful idea with terms and limitations in terms of the Antimonopoly Committee, which can investigate cases for years, stretch it on purpose, and not solve any of the proposals. And so this norm, I'm going to point out that I've been supported by both business associations, and honest and transparent business is supported by it. That is why the Economic Policy Committee came to this conclusion and did not support these amendments, which I thank the Hall for not supporting either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u137	Thank you for clarifying your position, dear Mrs. I remind my colleagues that this is about the 18th amendment, which was supported by the committee. But Mrs. Ptachnik is once again drawing attention to both the amendment and the bill. We're moving on. Next amendment to the 20th, People's Deputy Skrum. Please, Mrs. Alona, will you take the floor? Please, Mrs. Schrum's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u138	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Good afternoon, colleagues! In fact, we are looking at a fairly interesting and important bill today. And I'm his co-author, and I'm going to support it, although some of the amendments I'm going to ask for confirmation. And it's clear that we have to talk about this topic not superficially, but it's a good thing that we have the opportunity and the opportunity to talk about it in a substantive way today. Because the bill foresees that in fact the protection of the rights of those who participate in matters under consideration by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, guarantees of these rights, mechanisms for the exercise of these rights, and generally more effective work of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. And, in fact, today, although I support this bill and will vote for it, it's his co-author, and I think it's important and necessary, but the work of an institution like the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, it's a big surprise to me today. And I think it's terribly inefficient, like other control institutions. This amendment refers to the technical question of representatives who are not independent members of the law and the institution of representation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u139	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u140	and the institution of representation, which I believe should be enshrined in the text of the bill. So please place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u141	Thank you for explaining your correction, Mrs. Helena. I agree that we are looking at a really, really important bill for Ukrainian business. And we ask the head of the committee to comment on the 20th amendment, this is Mrs. Alona Shkrum's amendment, why the committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u142	Dear Mrs. Schrum, good afternoon! We support your initiative, but we don't think that representatives are a single participant. And on the committee, we've analyzed the situation, and we think that a representative institution like this is fixed by valid legislation, namely civil legislation, and it doesn't need to be clarified in the bill. That's why we think in principle, but in this bill we don't need any clarification, it's governed by other legislation, the institution of representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u143	Thank you. Colleagues, I'd like to make an appointment for the 20th Amendment. [[12:44:24]] For-39 The correction is being rejected. The next 34 amendments. Please. We're going to go back to her 34 revisions, and I see the author's still coming back from the towers. The 38th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Birds, was. I'm sorry, this amendment is taken into account. 43 amendment, national deputy Shkrum. Mrs. Alona, please have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u144	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. First of all, thank you for the explanation, and I would like to comment, really, on my amendments to the committee's head, which are rejected, so that we can get an understanding of why the committee has decided otherwise or not. As for Amendment 43, in fact, I believe that the amendment I have just made brings the bill to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act into line. And I suggested it in article 41-1. But since I can see that article 41-1 is completely excluded by the committee, so I understand that this amendment has been excluded, because the whole article is defined as being excluded. Then I ask you to explain why an entire article has been excluded, if I understand the final text of the bill today, as drafted by the committee of profile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u145	Please explain 43 amendments to the committee head. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u146	Yes, you're absolutely right, Mrs. Skrum, we have indeed excluded the 41-1 article from the body of the bill. And your amendment applied, and it says here that part of one article 41 after the word "unifications" should be supplemented by the words "authorities, local governments, administrations and controls." Therefore, we simply did not discuss it in connection with the fact that this article does not contain 41-1, and the application was rejected. And I don't think you should even put it on confirmation because there's no such article. Irina, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u147	Mrs. Allona, are you satisfied with this explanation? Ms. Alona after explaining the head of the committee. the position of the committee does not insist on a vote of 43 amendments. 44 revisions. This is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Victoria Ptachnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, my amendment also applied to the Institute of Verification, because it is the most effective tool around the world to investigate such distortions in the field of competition as secret conspiracies that are still called cartels. Because it's at dawn around the world that antitrust authorities come in unexpectedly to the right businesses that are suspected of doing a cartel, and they're suddenly trying to build up the entire evidence base. But I would like to inform you that unfortunately, some national MPs have tried to write this institution in this bill in such a way as to make it impossible for the work of the Antimonopoly Committee and to be able to do it. to prevent the Antimonopoly Committee personnel from being subjected to appropriate checks. Understanding this threat, we decided simply to leave in such a way that we excluded this amendment from the bill. And at the moment there's a sub-legislative legal act that determines the order of the checks, so it's valid, and it just needs to be governed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u149	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u150	Well, Mrs. Victoria, you are. What you're proposing with a view to providing evidence in the case of violations of legislation on protection, as well as other cases provided for in legislation, is all the same. You have to support me, it's in the body of the bill. We passed it through this philosophy of yours. But once again, it's the same as in the previous case. Mrs. Irina, we're an article, we're not essentially arguing, we're talking in form, we're excluding article 41-1 from the body, and the amendment authors, they're referring to an article that's just not in the bill anymore. That's why we're here. We don't have any misunderstandings, we don't have any ambiguities, but just in the form of a law, it's impossible to include an amendment where there's no article in this law anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u151	We have no doubt that there is no misunderstanding on the profiling committee with the deputies who amended it, but there is only a discussion. Mrs. Alona Shkrum had previously presented with an amendment, she was satisfied with your explanation, we did not vote. Mrs. Birdie, you don't insist on voting either, because we were told by the committee's head, that just this article, it just disappeared from the body itself, and that's why there's nothing to vote on, The 45th amendment of the People's Chamber of Birds, and it also applies to this article 41-1, but Mrs. Victoria insists on the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u152	My colleagues, I'm not going to insist on confirming this amendment, but I want to take this opportunity to say that I really want the Antimonopoly Committee to finally work effectively. And I want this body to be an effective investigator for competition violations. I'm not happy with the Antimonopoly Committee for the day. Moreover, I do not understand why certain violations, such as those that have been committed in the past, have not been investigated by such bodies as the NABU, the BPO, the Attorney General's Office? Because I have the facts as the Antimonopoly Committee itself could change its fines, and the figure that was originally applied to the business of 50 million, somehow after the business talks and after the committee had reviewed its decision itself, ended up being 100,000 dollars. This was a matter of purchases and purchases. So I very much hope that our bill will be adopted, and the tools for efficient work will be given to the committee and appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds, Mrs. Victoria insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u154	..and the relevant authorities will pay attention to violations such as when certain sanctions are imposed by the committee, 50 million dollars become 100,000 dollars. The original fine was also imposed by the former committee board of 27 million dollars after negotiations with the consumer subject became 50 thousand dollars. The reason was that the offender’s financial situation was difficult. That's not supposed to happen anymore. And the law enforcement authorities should pay attention to such information, check it out, and draw the guilty to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u155	Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u156	Well, I don't think I have any more explaining how I want to say thank you very much to both Mrs. Victoria the Bird, and Mrs. Oksani the Sales, and Mrs. Aunty the Ostrikova, and Mrs. Alona the Skrum for their active position in producing quality legislation in the field of economic competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u157	Thank you. I understand that they do not insist on voting here because, as the committee head explained, article 41-1 was expelled from the body of the law. Mrs. Alona Shkrum, 46th. Are you insisting or not? Please, you have a microphone. And then we're going to go back to the People's Deputy of Semimenha, because I missed two of his amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. See, this bill is really not just important, it is really part of our commitment to our partners, including the Association Agreement, and it envisions the implementation of article 255 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine on the one hand and the EU on the other. In doing so, we need to rebuild the very quality of the work of the institutions. You know, I don't believe in good or bad kings there, I believe in quality, professional, independent, non-political institutions. So today, we have to make it clear that by improving legislation in this area, unfortunately, we will not see an independent, non-politicized, unbiased Antimonopoly committee. Because this institution needs a complete change in its activities and a de facto cut off from political and political attitudes. And that's what we need to talk about today -- not just the implementation of the Association Agreement, but the creation of real European independent control institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u159	Please, we're moving on, Mrs. Skrum doesn't insist on voting here, she just once again explained her position as co-author of the bill on this subject that we're discussing. Please, microphone to the People's Deputy Semensi, and 34 amendments are now yours. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u160	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, my rights are expanding the amount of information that the person against whom the Antimonopoly Committee body is violating has access to. In this way, a person will be able to object and comment on the final decision. This is about the confidential information given to the Antimonopoly Committee by another party on the matter. The amendment is based on the fact that the bill is much narrower than the same rules of law in the European Union. In particular, we suggest that the claimant company, when submitting documents to the Antimonopoly Committee, should be able to justify the reasons, if it wants to keep certain information confidential, there should be an explanation of the damage that may be caused to the claimant company by disclosing such information and much more. We are convinced that deepening and clarifying these norms in the very body of the law will greatly improve the bill itself, so please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u161	Please comment, Mr. Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Semenach, we believe that the proposed amendment to the proposed regulation will be contrary to the legislation on information. Information with restricted access will also be violated. And I'd like to pay attention to how we wrote that in the right column. We wrote, "because information is available with limited access (confidential information commercially or otherwise)." May I? I have to finish. ".are familiar with a non-confidential version of such documents in order to determine the need to use them to protect their rights in such conduct." That's why we brought this rule into this bill according to the law. legislation in general on information and on the restricted access information regime. So I'm asking you very much to support the text that the committee in the right column wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u163	Please identify 34 amendments, colleagues. [[12:56:08]] For-48 The amendment is not accepted. The next 39 amendments. So is Semenach's national deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, number 39 is partially accounted for, so I'd like to take another step to change it. It is not included in the section on the establishment of a deadline for participants to familiarize themselves with the material of the case. Such a term may not be less than 1 month from the date on which a copy of the file has been sent to the participant. This rule makes it impossible to abuse after a prolonged period of familiarity with materials. In addition, the amendment suggested that the deadline for getting acquainted with the material of the matter should not be included in the time limits during which the Antimonopoly Committee should consider the matter. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u165	Yes, please, your comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u166	Yes, Mr. Semimenach, we've taken part in the idea. But how did we do it? "For two working days after the submission by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine with previous findings in the case, copies shall be sent, duly certified, by mail." So that's the first one, we agreed. The other one. "For three working days from the date of the arrival of the written concern of the person taking part in the case, or its representative body of the Antimonopoly Committee, undertake to provide the person with the material of the case, including a non-confidential version of the documents which contain information with limited access. The person who participates in the case (his representative) is entitled to be familiar with the documents provided for in this part of the article in the office of the Antimonopoly Committee at its place of employment." The lines, what you're proposing, what you're offering, what you're introducing, and what you're talking about in terms of heading 37-1, what you're saying, in terms of time limits, the committee doesn't support. That's why we took part of your amendment. And I beg you, Mrs. Irina, what if it were presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u167	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u168	What if it's not fully supported to remain partially accounted for, as the committee suggests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u169	We support, of course, this position of head of the committee. Colleagues, so I'm asking you to vote for the 39th amendment. The authors insist on the full version. And the committee head is asking us to leave the committee version. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:58:38]] For-54 The correction is being rejected. The Committee's version remains. Ladies and gentlemen, may I interrupt for a moment the discussion of the amendments to the bill and inform you that we now have a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Lebanon in our guest bed, along with our distinguished Ambassador, Mr. Igor Ostas. Dear colleagues, we welcome you and sincerely thank you to the friendly republic for the great support you provide for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Welcome, dear fellows. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we're continuing our work and we're happy to be able to constructively discuss the amendments now and return to amendment 47, which is the same thing as the national deputy of Semimenach. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u170	I'm not reporting 47th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u171	Thank you. And the 48th is not? No, it's not. Okay. Thank you. So now we have the repairs, 49th and 50th. This is the national MP, Oksani Sold. She asks for two minutes immediately to present these two amendments. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I would now like to address the co-authors of this bill who are in the hall: Victoria, to Helena, and thank you for introducing this bill. And I want to address the head of the committee right now. Thank you for updating this bill, but I'm asking you to leave article 41-1 in this project. Because in fact, in order to make the Antimonopoly Committee work effectively, you have to give it all the procedures, put all the officials within what they can't go beyond. I understand when Victoria says she wants the bill to pass under any circumstances, she says there's a sub-legislative act that regulates the conduct of checks. But you and I know that, first of all, a sub-legal act cannot lay down requirements for those who are not defined by law, so we have in law all these requirements. And secondly, bylaws are always replaced by officials for officials in order to run a business. It doesn't matter now which: large or medium, small, in any case the Antimonopoly Committee staff should carry out checks in accordance with the procedure. Now there's a 42 amendment in the room, and I'm asking him to submit his own amendment to confirm that this bill is correct. He's right. And once again, I want to emphasize my amendments not only in the 49s and 50s, but the next, I'll take this opportunity to keep talking. Why should article 41-1 be left behind? In order to avoid corruption, we're already at work so that we don't catch up with the anti-corruption authorities of the officials who took advantage of the gap in this project. And to do that, you have to leave 41-1 behind, and accordingly you have to reject one of those amendments that I hope will be submitted by the author. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u173	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u174	You know, Madam Chairman, Mrs. Oksana and I are landladys, and we are basically very similar in that we are. Everything we marry, we lead to a logical conclusion, we are the result people. And so, Mrs. Oksana, in this case, I'm entirely on your side. But it is very important to me that this bill is adopted. And on the committee, when I'm in session, I'm very clear on which factions of MPs have positions, and already on the committee, we're reaching such consensus that the bill is passable in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, in many bills, both you and I can't achieve the 100% desired result. But both you and I get little maybe steps, maybe not enough steps in changing Ukrainian legislation, but we're still getting these little victories. You and I have done a great deal to make our country a better place. And I don't want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u175	30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u176	And I wouldn't want to be in the room right now, because on the committee we just saw that this article, it would question the adoption of the law completely, that is, there were different points of view. And we agreed that we could do this to you in the future. And I'm happy to co-author the next bill, where you and I can write all these procedures in Ukrainian legislation. Thank you very much, and I count on your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u177	We're putting it to a vote. Ms. Oksana simply expressed her position with regard to the bill. And we've heard again that this article 41-1 is off. As I understand it, Mr. Semimenach is not going to insist on 52 amendments, is he? You won't. You see, I'm already in the middle of your revisions. Ms. Olena Schrum will not insist. It will be. Mrs. Olena, I don't belong to yours. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u178	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, most of my amendments, actually, are responsible for keeping the Anti-Monopoly Committee in their activities: first, the principle of equality before the law and, in fact, not to abuse its rights in the course of checks, in the course of cases, and in the case of participants, in legal persons, in the physical. other people had, well, actually the right to defend themselves, and get a copy of the documents, and see what was happening on time. Well, and so that the Anti-Monopoly Committee doesn't actually abuse its powers, its rights and its responsibilities to, let's put it simply, falsify business to be the principle of equality of sides, to be the principle of objectivity, impartiality of investigation, which is the European principle that is also enshrined in the Anti-Monopoly Committee Act. And unfortunately, today, well, these principles don't apply to us. The controlling institution itself, such as the Antimonopoly Committee, is extremely important. But it's because of the principle of legality, the principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u179	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u180	The principle of objectivity and the principle of equality of all sides before the law does not apply, which is why we have terrible abuses and the Antimonopal Committee, and the terrible disappointments of society in general from the authorities of the state, and it is from the controlling institutions that do not protect their rights and responsibilities that prevent them from doing business properly and normally. Thank you. I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u181	Thank you. Thank you. I understand your position. Victoria the Birdman, 54th. Don't you insist? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u182	Colleagues, I would still like to clarify my position. I would very much like to invite Mrs. Oksan to look at the other national MPs who are interested in this, to look at all the amendments that have been tabled by the people's deputies to this bill. Among the amendments you have to see such a written edition of the Institute of Verification, which is specially written in sufficient detail to just make it impossible for the antitrust body at all to come to any business and carry out any inspection. If we were to accept it in such an editorial way, I would tell you that no cartel would then be able to investigate, and the Antimonopoly Committee, if it were convenient for him, would tell us that we're being hampered by business representatives here, because look here, you have this rule written down, and we can't implement it. And in understanding this threat, we've decided to clean up this institution completely, because there are legislative checks today, they are. In particular, let us regulate a separate bill. But I don't want to take advantage of my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u183	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u184	At the expense of my bill, there were rules in law that would benefit certain businesses, which were followed by specific oligarchs, who, by the way, did not vote last year when this project came to second reading. So I'm asking you very much not to destroy this project, because there are many positive things. Things that support business associations: and the European Business Association, and the American Chamber of Commerce. And I very much hope that the hall will still have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u185	Thank you. Don't you insist? But an explanation of the committee’s head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u186	Madam Chairman, I'm asking you to give me two minutes to comment on this for Mrs. Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u187	Please, two minutes for a comment, and Mrs. Aloni, and Mrs. Victoria. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Mrs. Alona, you realize that, in fact, you write: When the original documents have been removed, the holder has the right to make copies of them, if not possible, to make copies immediately and so on. But notice that we still have the left column, we have the first reading edition. So we are, in fact, many things, even those amendments that we have not rejected because there are no articles, but many of these processes are regulated in the first reading edition. And I think that in the sub-laws of the Antimonopoly Committee, it's in our hands, and if you, well, I understand it, it must be my initiative, I invite the Antimonopoly Committee to meet with the Economic Policy Committee, I invite all of you, the authors of these important amendments, and together we will hold a working group to work together on the normative acts of the Antimonopoly Committee, where all of this will be taken into account and prescribed. And now my second explanation, there, I don't know how to say it, Mrs. Victoria the Bird. Mrs. Victoria, the bill was yours, and now it's ours, it's the property of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we're in stage two reading. And so we all have a lot of respect for you and we want to help you as much as possible to make your initiative even better and even more effective for the Antimonopoly Committee that you, I know, have been working with for as many years as we have been working with you, in my view, the most professionally caring for the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. So let's really work on the next bill, let's all join in with its authorship, work and write this institution together. But this law, we're not going to break it anymore, and really, as Mrs. Victoria says, we're going to support it so that at least 80 percent of this positive Ukrainian legislation gets it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u189	Thank you for your clarification. And we're moving on. Mrs. Oksana, 55th Amendment. Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u190	Dear Mr. Andrey, I thank you very much for your offer when you say that you will invite us to the committee and we will be able to discuss with you with the Antimonopoly Committee his legal acts. But unfortunately, you didn't even invite us as the authors of the amendments, at least I wasn't invited, to the committees, to the working groups to discuss, to defend the amendments. So counting on you to invite us to the committee, I think, well, such a huge-great desire is possible only. Now I want to go to the co-authors of the bill, and now only those MPs who want this project to be voted on in this room are discussing the project. And I want you to remember that. If one of the people here, who is now announcing and explaining their amendments, didn't want this project, we wouldn't be in the hall right now. That's why this project was voted out, and I'm asking you to reject that amendment that cancelled the 41-1 article, and so that this project is what the co-authors are initiating.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u191	Please finish 30 seconds. Mrs. Oksana, are you done? 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u192	That's why I'm asking you to leave the article 41-1, which regulates the order of the tests. As we prepare the repairs, we might throw all kinds of horrors there. You don't have to be afraid of that. Different MPs have different positions, but here we are having a discussion about finding the best solution and not putting off for tomorrow what we can do today, just for business and for economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u193	Thank you again. An explanation of the head of the committee regarding this article 41-1, namely, the amendment to which you and I have been discussing for the last hour. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u194	I think the logic of iron concrete is in Mrs. Prodan. If we weren't interested, we wouldn't be here today. And what I want to say again is, thank you very much, that all the authors of the amendments are here, and we're having this kind of professional discussion. With regard to non-invitation to the working groups and to the committee. You know, Mrs. Oksana, that I'm a man of my word, I'm going to conduct a service investigation. And I'm going to officially inform you, if that's the case, that will be the responsibility of the workers. Why? Because I may not really pay much attention to all kinds of hardware technical nuances, but in so many years, I don't know how many years I've been the head of the committee, such complaints from the national MPs, the subjects of the legislative initiative, I haven't heard it, and it really could have been. I'm sorry, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u195	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u196	I'm sorry that maybe the machine worked out in some way, but I'm sure I'll get to the bottom of this. I'm sorry again, and I guarantee it won't happen again. Thank you for your clarification. We're moving on and not voting for this amendment, are we, Mrs. Oksana? We're just discussing, exchanging thoughts about the body of the bill, it's a great opportunity. And I really want to thank all my colleagues that we're talking about the bill, the amendments, the essence of it, not the politics. Next. Amendment 57. Ms. Victoria Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u197	Colleagues, for all who are interested in this subject, I'd like to explain to you who is listening to us, what is the article around which the discussion is now going, right? Because the edition of the first reading predicted that exactly what authority did the members of the Antimonopoly Committee exercise? In particular, it is the right to unhindered access to premises, unhindered access to storage sites, to require the object to verify the presentation of documents, and so on, to demand clarification, to remove evidence, to arrest and so forth, and so on. Mrs. Oksana tells us that it is inappropriate to foresee all of this in legal regulations. I've just opened the Antimonopoly Committee Act, which I'd like to quote, law, attention, not a legally binding legal act. Article 16 of the authority of a national authority provides for the conduct of checks on the subjects of the household, the unhindered entry into the premises, the conduct of checks, and the investigation of the claims of the owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u198	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u199	On the basis of allegations of a violation, demand the presentation of documents and so forth, and so forth. I mean, I want to point out that the right to carry out specific checks, the right, actually, to require specific documents to present these checks, to these checks from the operators, all these rights are fixed for today at the level of the law. The idea was in this law at first, because we wanted to unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u200	Thank you, thank you. I've already added 30 seconds, that'll be a violation. Dear Mrs. Victoria, this will be a violation. One minute to Ivanchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u201	My minute, Mrs. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u202	This isn't a casino right now. We can't give you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u203	Okay. Then I'll try.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u204	So we're moving on. Ma'am. Your minute may be yours. And Mrs. Victoria, we're going to give her a minute for the next amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u205	Then I will continue to think about Victoria Juryivna. I think she won't mind, we're representatives of the same committee, and we've had this discussion all along. We had one working group, such a round table, Mrs. Irina, here in our 12th room, we had a lot of business representatives, all business associations. And you know, it didn't just come about like that. And when the author of the bill, which basically practiced this philosophy, it was all in the form of the first reading. Ms. Victoria, she has also heeded all these warnings, all the comments that were on this round table, and in principle, as Mrs. Oksana says, it would be possible to work on this article and take into account very many of the right and correct observations of the legislators.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u206	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u207	But at some point we felt like we couldn't make a deal, we stood in the same place for a few days. And that's why Mrs. Victoria allowed us to sort of postpone this article to our next legislative changes. I ask you very much not to change the structure for today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u208	I understand Mrs. Victoria doesn't insist. Well, we welcome the compromise found on your committee. Article 58. Mrs. Oksana Sold. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u209	I will continue to discuss the need to define in the law the procedures for carrying out checks. I am very sorry that the committee has postponed the decision-making and legalization of what it is doing today, and that the Anti-Monopoly Committee should do for the next assembly, because it was possible to resolve the issue today. At the same time, I think it's wrong to delay and procedurally fail to write these standards. I agree that this is your decision, and you've made it. But I still think there should be a 41-1 article in this project, even the one that was on the first reading, even though it could be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u210	Thank you. I understand Mrs. Oksana doesn't insist on voting, we're just continuing the discussion. The next 59th amendment, it's Mrs. Bird, and it can also continue the discussion. Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u211	As I continue my discussion, I want to point out that our committee has not just had a huge discussion. In fact, we had more work to do, I think, ten working groups meeting on this bill when we were preparing it for the second reading. For which, of course, I would like to thank our head, Mr. Ivanchuk, for the fact that our committee here has just shown its transparency, and representatives and associations have been involved, and particularly the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine has worked quite fruitfully on this project and has had the opportunity to join it. And finally, I want to point out that the right to carry out checks is also enshrined in the Antimonopoly Committee Act. The tests are now being carried out. I would hate for individual deputies to try to block this institution. It is the most effective tool to investigate dangerous cartel competition violations. So let's just leave it as it is. If there's any idea of how to work on it, we'll work on it separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u212	Thank you. Please, Mr. Ivanchuk, your minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u213	I would like, Mrs. Irina, in principle, to you and to all the deputies who listen to us. There is a world. We're not the only country that has legislation to develop economic competition, protect against monopolies. We analyzed, and I took part in an international conference, and we had an OECD in Kiev, and I was interested in colleagues from other countries, how they relate to resolving these issues. In no European Union country this is provided by law, and this is regulated everywhere by the regulatory regulations of the supervisory authority. So he writes like, where, where. And that's all we wanted to put in this 41-1, that's how much. Well, Mrs. Prodan says it would be your gift to the Ukrainian business, it would really be very much settled and protected by the Ukrainian business.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u214	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u215	But, Mrs. Irina, well, you couldn't balance, well, you couldn't achieve, all satisfied, some consensus. For every good offer, there were some controversies. And I was so confused in the end that if we brought it into the hall, believe me, Mrs. Irina, we'd be sitting over here for a week, right over one of these articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u216	Well, Mr. Andrew, you're convincing me that I'm not going to vote for your bill. I'll support him tomorrow when we vote. And now we're going to continue the discussion on the amendments. Mrs. Birdie does not insist on a vote of 59 amendments. 61 amendment, Mrs. Bird. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that yesterday, in particular, we were looking at another antitrust bill, which unfortunately was rejected by the session hall. And he was rejected by Parliament because the session hall was divided. This was a mechanism for the calculation of fines imposed for distortions of competition, where half of the session hall said that the final decision should be taken and the calculation made by the court, and half the room considered that it was the authorization of the Antimonopoly Committee. And so we didn't reach consensus, and so we found out that there was no law, even though there were a lot of positive rules without it. This is a separate position. I think we need to analyze and draw conclusions, actually, from this failed vote last night. I very much ask that history not repeat itself, and this bill 6746 still received a positive vote, and all the consensual things that have already been achieved were supported in the session room tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u218	Thank you. Let's move on. Next, amendment 63, please, Mrs. Oksana Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, in fact, when we discuss the issue of verification and when we insist that they be written procedurally in the bill, we don't just say that to be an article. It can be said that there are countries where verification procedures are defined in regulations, as Mr. Andrew says, can be discussed. But is judicial reform currently under way in these countries? Whether the courts are already working fairly, and any subject has the opportunity to go to court and defend his rights quickly and effectively. I think this question is rhetorical, we know the answer. Business today has a very difficult opportunity to defend its rights in courts, and it's expensive enough for that. That's part one. There's another part. We have experience. Mrs. Victoria says that the law allows, gives the right to be tested, everything else is going to be under the law. We have this experience today in labour law when we gave the right to examine labour law by law, but the law did not determine the procedure. And today this law is treated differently. The government has accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u220	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u221	Thank you very much. The government adopted a decree that goes beyond the law and established powers for supervisors who are not in law. And today business suffers from it. It's not about business. Now what we're talking about right now is the question of jobs, the level of wages and the overall presence of the Ukrainian economy, because all of the absolutely corrupt values that are laid down in antitrust legislation, in labor and in any other, they end up falling into the cost of goods and services.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u223	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u224	Andrey Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to give me two minutes to respond to the amendment, the presentation by Victoria Jurijovna and Ms. Prodan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u225	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u226	First of all, Mrs. Oksano, really, judicial reform, that's more of a question for Mr. Knazevitch, he's looking after these issues. And when you say expensive, I mean. I think you mean the court. But I'm talking. And we're in charge of the Antimonopoly Committee. I want to tell everyone that you should all be -- you, Mrs. Oksano, you, Mrs. Victoria, are proud that we, this Parliament, have formed a new composition of the Antimonopoly Committee. And today's business. Maybe there are nuances somewhere, and that's a completely different quality, a completely different face of the controlling body: how it works clearly, how protected all interests are. Indeed, that function that is in the Antimonopoly Committee, when it has to accept one side or another, we all have to make it clear that that party whose interests are disturbed, unsatisfied, is not at peace, and that is what some insinuation is coming from. But all the business in Ukraine felt that this Supreme Council, this convening, formed such a proper professional composition of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which really changed the attitude of this control body in general. And this is our credit to you. As for the fines, Mrs. Victoria. Yesterday's bill, he didn't split the hall into two parts, he did. As you were told, this is a reflection of what Mr. Oksan says. People don't know who to trust anymore — the judiciary or the Antimonopoly Committee. And we made a decision with you at the time, remember, that the Ukrainian courts were eager to have undisputed authority. I think this Supreme Council and the next Supreme Council will do their best to make this Ukrainian dream come true. But the Antimonopoly Committee is a special body that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u227	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u228	the activity of which is regulated by a separate law. And that's why we have to give him the opportunity to set up order, including the definition of fines, fines. So I think it's very right, let's just keep it as it is, and we'll probably not be quick enough to change the quality of our legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u229	Thank you. Mrs. Oksana, do you insist on voting? No, right? 64 amendment. Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I very much believe that this session hall will still be able to adopt this bill. There are also plenty of positive things. There are questions and deadlines, there are issues of procedural rights, their realization, those subjects involved in the investigation of competition infringements. For the first time, we're talking about diversions, about the possibility of diversions to state authorities. But I would, you know, want this discussion to be tested anyway, so that the session room, including the discussion on the subject, and why we still don't listen to the report, actually about the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee, when this last session hall was looking at such a report. Because from year to year, the committee is actually obliged to report, and we do not consider these reports. This is the kind of discussion I would like to see in the session room, and the bill, I think, should be accepted, and I should continue to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee, including to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u231	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u232	Including, in accordance with the obligation provided by law for representatives of the Antimonopoly Committee to come here to the session room, to discuss what standards are appropriate, what is not working, what is not working, where markets are being investigated, why individual cases have been closed for lack of evidence, and then we will have a normal balance. As a legislative body, we will create a normal legislative base, and the appropriate Antimonopoly Committee will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u233	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u234	You see, Andrew Volodymyrovich, who are the outstanding members of the Economic Policy Committee. The Antimonopoly Committee, it's coming to the committee, but Victoria Juryovna is concerned that all colleagues of the Ukrainian People's Deputies have the opportunity as members of the Economic Policy Committee: to ask questions, to discuss, to respond to what questions there are in society. So, I think that Victoria Yuriovna, I'll take your attention, I'll ask you, Mr. Head, to really allow our fellow MPs to communicate with the members of the Antimonopoly Committee, to give them all of these., to allow them to communicate as this possibility is in Victoria Jury and all of the other members of the Economic Policy Committee. I'm going to take a note and I'm going to make amends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u235	Thank you for this lively discussion and understanding in the hall. Prepare the proposal committee, and we will report immediately to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 65th, Roman Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u236	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the amendment was about making changes to an article that should regulate the conduct of checks by the Antimonopoly Committee. This article was deleted from the project before the Committee rereaded. And now the order of the checks is proposed to be determined by a separate sub-legislative act. The problem with a rule that has been ruled out is that the testing bodies have a very wide range of powers. Now this question is going to be referred to a separate sub-law, and it's not clear exactly how and how it's going to be resolved. In particular, the law provided for the introduction of additional safeguards for the protection of the owner against abuse of board members in the conduct of checks. That is, according to the amendment, the subject’s supervisor, another authorized person, including those who provide legal assistance to the subject of the inspection, has the right to be present during the inspection and many other things. So I still urge my colleagues to support this amendment, which is very important from the point of view of the subject matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u237	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u238	Mr. Semenha's wish is a law for me. If he thinks we need confirmation, I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u239	So please prepare for the vote, Mr. Roman. I'm betting on the 65th vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[13:32:00]] For-54 The decision is not made, unfortunately. Next line's 65th, right? Ostrikova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u240	66 readjustment rejected. Instead, it was about making changes to an article that should regulate the conduct of checks by the authorities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. At the same time, until the committee rereaded the article, it was excluded from the project. And now the order of the checks is proposed to be determined by a separate act of law. In fact, this amendment. It is suggested that the examiner be given the right, or another person authorized by him, to determine without hindrance the process of checking or each individual action by means of sound and video recording techniques, without impeding such verification. The appropriate measures will help the examiner to prevent violations of their rights or to record any cases of excess authority by the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u241	Thank you. Mr. Andry Volodymyrovich, I'm hearing that again, you've turned down Deputy Ostrichov's administration. For as long as it takes, explain why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u242	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich, this is, indeed, very serious my underwork. And I promise that in the next meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament, I will do everything possible and impossible for a professional national MP like Mrs. Tetjana Ostrkova to work with the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, and I will do everything possible and impossible for her to be a member of the Committee on Economic Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u243	Who will lead? 30 seconds. Let's take a look at the next call.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u244	By your permission, if no one denies it, I will continue to carry out these duties with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u245	It's a deal, Andry Volodymyrovich. So, colleagues, it's a good thing that this isn't because of the political position of Ostrike's rejected claim. She insists on voting. Who supports Amendment 66, please vote. [[13:34:22]] For-50 Unfortunately, you do not make a decision. 67th. He insists. Please, Mrs. Olena Scrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u246	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, this amendment also applies to changes to that article that is excluded by the committee. I thank you for explaining why she's been expelled. But I'm going to take this opportunity not to put my amendment to the vote, but to explain my previous statement, because, in response to the committee head's statement, I'm criticizing here not the committee's work. You've actually done a great job, I'm grateful to the committee for a good second reading. I am here criticizing, unfortunately, the politicization and inefficiency of our controlling institutions. And I think it would be very good and right indeed, firstly, to invite the Antimonopoly Committee to your profile committee, to hold a meeting there and, well, actually talk about what changes before the legislation will be necessary in order to make the procedures clear. And secondly, it might also be appropriate to listen to the report of the committee here from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, to hear what has been done from the point of view of the implementation of our Association Agreement and from the point of view of the ongoing investigations. Unfortunately, I have to point out that there is no one today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u247	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u248	Today, there is no confidence in the Antimonopoly Committee, especially after a decision that has not been explained to me or colleagues or Ukrainian citizens about the closure of the Children's Committee, which has and has, and controls 75 percent of the heat generation market and 85 percent of coal mining, the Antimonopoly Committee believes that it is not a monopoly and has not even considered and closed it. This should be explained from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u249	You insist on voting, don't you? Please, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u250	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman and Your Honor, you know when they're talking about the committee's decision on the D.T.A., I'd like to disagree with you. Because all the hearings were transparent, all the experts were involved, it was all under cameras. And what kind of monopoly can be talked about when producers of heat power, regardless of who it belongs to, are set up by a national commission. When Ukraine has a single buyer and only seller, the owners of the heat generation, even if they want to abuse or not abuse their monopoly or non-monopoly status, they do not have such a mechanism. And that's why, despite this public awareness, all the meetings of the Antimonopoly Committee and our Committee on Economic Policy have made sure that this is happening transparently, under the cameras, with public participation. And that's a decision, it's supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u251	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u252	This decision, supported not only in Ukraine, is supported even by our European partners. I held consultations, and everyone clearly said that there was not even an object in principle to be a monopolistic plot or abuse of its monopoly. That's it. You don't have to look for a black cat in a dark room, especially when it's just not there. We should be with you as lawyers strictly, professionally, strictly by law, making decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u253	Thank you. We're going too slowly with the repairs. I hope we don't get into too much tomorrow. So I call on the right-wing authors: already when the principle is in place, then to insist on voting. So 68th. A bird, please, Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u254	Colleagues, I'm not going to put this amendment to the vote, but I'd like to take this opportunity to say the following. I understand that the decision that Mrs. Skrum and Mr. Ivanchuk both mentioned was an antitrust committee, motivated by the regulation of a particular market. I want to take this opportunity right now to remind the Antimonopoly Committee of an article like the 15, which speaks of anticompetitive action by the authorities. And I would like to take this opportunity to ask and ask the Antimonopoly Committee and ask an authority such as NCRECR to verify that there is a violation in their actions, such as the anti-competitive actions of public authorities, because this regulation was created by the NCRECR. And then I gave other companies like this, which today was about being a DTEK, actually avoiding their responsibility and referring to regulation in the market. So I would be very grateful if this matter was violated under article 15 of the Law on Protection of Economic Competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u255	Thank you. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u256	You know, when Victoria Yuriovna says, 90 percent of the cases don't even have anything to add, it's the right position. It is not necessary to translate from a healthy head into a sick person. That's why we all have to protect the Ukrainian business together. And Victoria Juryevna said it was a question before it all worked out, how it was regulated by government authorities. That's the right position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u257	Thank you for your understanding. Where else do you discuss, rather than in the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? How glad you are to have an understanding. 69th. Are you insisting? Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u258	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, and 69, and 70 and 71 together. So I'm asking you three minutes so I can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u259	Please, 2 minutes 3 revisions. Three minutes, right? Okay, 3 minutes, 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u260	Thank you very much. I'm going to continue the discussion, my dear colleagues, on the possibility of abuse of monopoly through the actions or omissions of the Antimonopoly Committee and your discussion in part of the energy supply companies. Yes, we've passed laws with you, there are markets everywhere, but consumers who use these services and buy energy, actually, that market doesn't feel it yet. So when it comes to big business, they have the ability to identify suppliers when it comes to small and medium-sized businesses, when it comes to citizens who buy energy, they don't have the ability to choose, they don't have monopolies. And now I want to go directly to Andry Volodymyrovich, the second head, about whether they have the possibility of abuse. I'm going to tell you how the subject reports in order to pay the costs. First of all, in January, electricity customers in almost 10 areas were billed twice in January. And there's no decision. They're monopolies who have the ability to put accounts twice. And you either pay twice, and then you wait for the refund, or you don't pay and wait for it to work. When you turn on the second power is already off. Today, cities, to say they don't know what to do with a different night fare, whether it's abuse of a monopoly or not. I think it's an abuse. In order for a small entrepreneur to pay for any kind of energy, he goes to his supplier, brings him personal, legs, and we have different means of communication, but in all cities and towns he brings a report, he submits this report in a single window. Then, with this line going into another line, he gave up, got a piece of paper. With that piece of paper going into the other window, there's a turn. So every entrepreneur loses one day a month to report and get the bills to pay. I'm sure it's an abuse of monopoly. And so when we talk about the Antimonopoly committee having a nice face, it has new faces, there are decent people who work and work loyally, but total consumers and small and medium-sized businesses don't actually feel it. And that's a question for both your profile committee and you as head of the committee. Because in fact, when the Antimonopoly Committee works as we all say today, then small and medium-sized businesses will develop and will not depend on the monopolies of energy providers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u261	Thank you. It was 69th, 70th, 71st. Mr. Andrey, Mrs. Oksana was on three turns. Please, Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u262	Dear Mrs. Oksana, indeed, to the Committee on Economic Policy, I personally have a lot of complaints about power and gas distribution operators. In fact, I know my colleague, Mr. Dombrowski, that the committee is currently working on legislation to regulate this. And I also confirm that since January 1, we've moved on to new rules in the electricity market. I know about this problem for night-tariff cities, and I've studied this experience, as it happens, for example, in the European Union, because it's about joining Ukraine in the Third Energy Package. I'd like to give you only one guarantee, not as the head of the committee, but as your friend, we need a few months of this transition period, which applies to the name of the power distribution network operators to sort things out, and so on, in fact, cities have the opportunity to pay for the night-to-night cheap fare there and so on and so forth. There are also many problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u263	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u264	Similarly, there are many problems with distribution system operators and natural gas. That's why I'm taking your point. We will certainly, I think, in March months we will make an expanded round table on this subject, inviting all the participants. I will be able to assist Mrs. Wojcieck as the leading expert on these matters, and we will be able to help consumers to put order in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u265	There must be order. Don't they insist on voting? 72nd. Don't insist. 74th. Mrs. Oksana insists. Yours and the 73rd and the 74th?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u266	And 75-a, too. Three, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u267	Three more repairs? How about two minutes, Mrs. Oksana?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u268	Thank you. We may not make it to the second hour, and we will have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u269	170 right hand, Mrs. Oksana, and we're only on 74th. If I may, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u270	Okay. Regarding the night fare. I want to use the commission's economic policy to guarantee that it will meet, and we will find a solution to restore it. But this should be done, not in March, but in February. I'm sorry, because as long as it's fat, there's gonna be something else going on with it. And the cities need to be paid today, they're being blocked today. So please, in February. Thank you, very Andrew Volodymyrovich. And I want to continue this discussion. I'm not going to talk about monopolies, I'm not going to talk about article 44-1 right now. I want to go back to article 37-1, where the committee supported it. I didn't support it, but I left the rule that if the Antimonopoly Committee didn't consider the matter in its own terms, the case would close, and the monopoly would not be responsible for any of the violations that might be possible. I want to take advantage of what Victoria the Bird was talking about today, anyway, when she was giving examples that there have been 9 years of investigations in Europe. We don't have those terms, but it's possible. And closing the case in connection with that. In view of the fact that it simply takes time, it is the creation of the same corruption conditions again for the Antimonopoly Committee’s employees. So what's very important to me is that 15 and 16 amendments should have been supported, and article 37-1 in the last paragraph of "closure" cannot be left in this project. I don't insist on voting, because, well, I see there are no 226 votes in the room right now. But this is 44-1 and 37-1, they're supposed to be in the texts that were discussed here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u271	Thank you. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u272	So this is, you know, the medal has two sides, Andry Volodymyrovich. The first question is, when the Antimonopoly Committee violates a case against an offender, suspecting him of monopolistic abuse, a monopoly, we give a year to prove it and punish it. Another question, when they say that the Antimonopoly Committee has broken the case, wants to prove this guilt and does nothing, the year has passed, and it has to close the case. You see, the Antimonopoly Committee is able to conduct 5 years of investigation, and 9 years of investigation, it can conduct hearings, but once it's out there, if you'll excuse me, it can't be forever either. You can study materials, you can study abuse, you can. The Antimonopoly Committee may work for 10 years on a branch of the economy, for example, by breaking a case that is bound to prove guilt in a year, and if it does not, the subject of the economy. It's up to you to do the farming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u273	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u274	must have a protected right. So I'm asking you very much, the Antimonopoly Committee doesn't insist that this term be longer, it has other tools, how to fight those who abuse the monopoly, who violate the competition legislation. So let's leave it the way the committee did. I think it's a very right, balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u275	It's a deal. So 76th. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u276	My readjustment is about tests. I ask for section 5 of the bill to read: "To supplement the law with article 41-1."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u277	Andrew Volodymyrovich? No, it's not. Do you insist on voting? I'm voting for the 76th People's Deputy Sažko. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[13:49:46]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, next, 77th. Salovaj, please, 77 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u278	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. You know, I've asked you to name it over and over again. Change the name of the Antimonopoly Committee from "antimonopoly" to "monopoly" committee. Because we have the Antimonopoly Committee instead of fighting monopolies, it's actually legitimizing them by its decisions. And there are many, unfortunately, such examples. Will this bill change the monopoly situation in Ukraine’s market? Absolutely not. Because the Antimonopoly Committee, like most regulators in Ukraine, were, are and remain, unfortunately, political authorities. The appointment of both the director and the authorized Antimonopoly Committee shall be made by political quotas. And so if we hope that this law regulates the situation in monopolistic markets, we are deeply wrong. We need to change the key System Law on Regulators – the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, take political influence, and only then will we be able to achieve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u279	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u280	Let me finish, please. And only when we take political influence from the task of directing the Antimonopoly Committee will we be able to have a real fight against monopoly markets in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u281	Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u282	To the representative of my own Repentance, my deputy, I would like to say only one thing that our country has changed very much. Can I say that it has changed enough so that we can say that we are better off than we are in Europe? No, but we're on this road with you one step at a time changing both our own Repentance and our Ukraine. So this bill, I disagree with you, will greatly improve the work of the antitrust body. And I think we should all be supportive of him, supporting our colleague Victoria's Bird. And this bill is going to be maybe not 100 percent, but a very big step in building Ukrainian legislation to protect competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u283	Do you insist on voting? Okay. So 86th. What's that? 79th, but it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u284	Please return to your place of work. And don't go inside the Peter Dust Block. Please have 79 revisions for confirmation. Please turn on the microphone. Belkova. Belkova. Turn on the microphone, please. The card's in place, right? Turn on the microphone. Belkova. That's it. We're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. And I want to thank the committee's head, and the authors to all those who tabled the amendments to this bill. This is a very important discussion. Let me remind you that when we passed a law, for example, on the gas market or the electricity market, the Antimonopoly Committee was one of those authorities that strongly insisted on their own powers. And then there was a group of deputies who helped them to stand up for their authority. And now, when there's a discussion around these politicized or very important issues about the price of coal, about certain tariffs, they're going to flip each other over. So let me remind you that the problem of natural monopolies is inevitable. And that's why we have two bodies in our "National legislation" system that are responsible for the solidarity of all issues of prejudice, objectivity and tariffs and abuse of natural monopolies or other monopolies. At present, the NCRECR is responsible for the price of coal as a formula. But this formula.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u286	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u287	Yeah. I would very much like us all to understand that the NCREKP is responsible for the formula that lies at the heart of the price, for example coal, yes. And then we can appeal to them, to the economic logic of their justification. At the same time, this price works for all companies, regardless of the form of ownership. But the recent decision of the Antimonopoly Committee has angered many of us because we see that there are certain prerequisites that have not been taken into account by the Antimonopoly Committee. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u288	Thank you. Andrew Volodymyrovich, before I give you my word. We're moving too slowly. I'm talking to all right-wing authors. If we go into the hourly debate tomorrow, we will not be able to go fully, in time for changes to the Constitution. So I'd like to ask you very, very briefly, if you please, Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u289	For me, a Greek Catholic is inevitable only death. Hence, life must be lived in a proper, honest, and dignified way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-06-m0.u290	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist, yes. All right, colleagues. Then we don't have that much intensity. 86th. Don't insist. 91st. Don't insist. Thank you for understanding all right-wing authors. 104th. Don't insist. 112th. The author does not insist. 112th, it's Sold. Don't insist. 115th. Don't insist. Okay, I'll slow down. So now it's 120 revisions. Don't insist, 120. 122nd. Now let's just figure out what direction we're going to continue working on tomorrow. 123rd. Don't insist. 130th. Excuse me? From what, 130 tomorrow? 130th, then we start tomorrow. Then, colleagues, I want to let you know that we're at 130. Tomorrow we'll start our consideration with 130 revisions. Author – Olena Skrum. I'm asking her to be on time tomorrow. Ms. Helena, you are, yes, I'm just asking you to be on time tomorrow, we'll start with your review, we'll continue the discussion. I hope it doesn't take more than 30 minutes. Me, too. If I'm not mistaken, 40 left. There's only 40 left. I think we should come in in in half an hour. Because I remind you, colleagues, tomorrow after considering this draft law, we are going to consider changes to the Constitution for defining Ukraine's accessions to NATO and the EU as priorities. And I have a call for you, colleagues, that's 300 votes, constitutional change -- it's always a huge responsibility for everyone. I'm asking each of the national deputies to be in the hall. I very much hope that tomorrow for one day we will announce a moratorium on any other issue, that tomorrow this historic decision will be no exaggeration, we will be able to participate in a meeting together. I am sure that for years everyone will remember how he voted on this day and on this issue, which in fact determines whether Ukraine is part of the Euro-Atlantic space, or whether Ukraine once again has a risk of coming back under the influence of the Russian Empire. And that's why I'm sure every patriot, every Ukrainian will be in the office tomorrow and will vote. And I want to remind you that we're going to enter into the discussion at 10:30, after we've considered this law. I also want to address all the committee heads who haven't made any proposals for the agenda, my colleague, tomorrow we have to confirm the order of the day session. The six committees that have not yet submitted have meetings today. I'm going to call everyone more quickly in the apparatus to make proposals so that we can finally confirm tomorrow's agenda for the day session, and this is again all the responsibility, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, I wish everyone a successful and fruitful work on the committees. The schedule of our work will also depend on the work to be done. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the session room to resume our work. Thank you. Nice work on the committees. See you tomorrow.
