ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Please register, take part in the registration. [[10:05:09]] 319 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of Santa Claus Ionova. Welcome to Jonah's Mrs. Mary's birthday. And I would like to inform you that at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are members of the government in charge of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi. Hello. And, colleagues, the usual practice of our work: I give 15 minutes to speak to Stepan Ivanovich, then questions from factions, then questions from national MPs. And I invite you to the speech by Mr. Ivanovich Kubi, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economic Development and Trade. Please, Mr. Ivan. Mr. Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, good morning. In these days, there is some criticism at the government's address, concerns about the lack of reform, of course, that citizens expect much more from the authorities. Today I report to you, to the Ukrainian people for three years of economic reform. After a year and a half, Ukraine’s GDP will exceed its pre-crisis GDP in 2013 by 0.7 percent. You say slow? I recall that Ukraine lost 20 percent of GDP because of the aggression of the Russian Federation and the annexation of Crimea. We've lost people, we've lost factories, we've lost industrial complexes, we've lost gas coal. But we stood up, we pulled the economy out of the hot spot, the economy stopped falling in 2016, and since then it's all grown up to plus 8.4 percent. In the first quarter of 19th year, GDP growth 2.2. This is the gain of the government of Ukraine and the National Bank. The economy has been protected and implemented by five key economic reforms: support for export promotion; second, business climate facilitation; third, public procurement reform; fourth, government property management reform; and fifth, industrial and industrial development. These reforms show no progress, such as the simplification of the business climate. Our main gain in this is the reduction of the shadow economy. In 2018, Ukraine recorded the lowest shadow economy in 11 years -- 30 per cent of GDP. This is 10 percent lower than in 2015. The only way to lower the shadow economy is to continue reforms, to continue deregulation. This is the position of Prime Minister Groisman and the government of Ukraine. This means, first of all, more taxes paid, and therefore higher pensions, higher wages and better living standards for Ukraine. Government efforts have already affected the life of the Ukrainian family. We settled inflation at 8.8 percent in April 2019, and wages increased. Statistics show that average wages grew to $170 equivalent from about $210 in December 2015 to $383 in April 2019. And this, according to official statistics, job search sites indicate that in the private sector, the average wage in April 2019 is already equivalent to $438 at the National Bank. This means, first of all, that the private sector has improved its affairs and has the ability to pay higher wages. The minimum wage increased from $55 per January 2016 to $150 per January 2019. This is already a conscious position of government: Ukrainians should have a decent standard of living compared to European neighbours. But the government of Ukraine can't administer high wages to everyone, it'll make business go dark. So our vision has always been to create conditions for business development, especially for manufacturing and exports. A major achievement is the conclusion of a free trade agreement with the European Union, allowing the EU to make the main trading partner for Ukraine and to compensate for the lost Russian market. As you know, today the share of the European market in exports of goods and services is 42.6 percent, and it's steadily increasing. We are also conducting diversification of markets in Africa, Asia, and others that are beneficial for Ukraine. In 2018, we started exporting 15 percent more goods to the EU. In 2013, the EU accounted for 26.5 percent of all exports of goods, 16.8 billion dollars, and 20.2 billion dollars in 2018. Russia accounted for 23.7 percent in 2013, and now Russia's share is 7.7 percent, and it's steadily decreasing. In 2016-2018, we continued to work on opportunities for Ukrainian business, entered into free trade agreements with Canada and Israel. By 2018, business had exported 55 percent more goods to Canada than in 2017. One of the great achievements of the current Ukrainian government is the digital economy. What the President calls a state in a smartphone, we've already created. Thanks to the development of the economy, the consolidated work of ministries, public procurement, privatization, reports of technical assistance, state enterprises for every citizen in the smartphone. You can buy from the state, sell to the state, and control the state without leaving the house. Mine-economy has been the engine of the digital economy in Ukraine for five years now, and this is recognised in the European Union. Since August 1, 2016, ProZorro’s electronic public procurement system has become mandatory for use throughout Ukraine, both in government and municipal sales. I am proud that Maxime Nephrodov and I, Alexander Starrodubcev, have been able to defend reform and prove that trade with the state is convenient. The figures show that business has believed us, over three years later the number of companies selling something to the state has increased by more than 200 percent. Competition allows saving government funds and transparency to monitor their use. For example, Ukrenergo State Company saved 190 million dollars in 2018 thanks to ProZorro, and many and many examples can be given. That's the thing about privatization. And while great privatization is towing for objective reasons, little privatization today creates opportunities for business. In 2015, the State Property Fund sold 109 items of former A, D, J, privatisations worth over 45 million dollars. So in 9 months of August 2018, the ProZorro State Property Fund sold 404 of these and not very attractive objects totaling almost 500 million dollars. That's 10 times more than it was sold in 2015. Once again, competition and transparency have improved the efficiency of the government’s work. Overall, in nine months, little privatization brought more than 1 billion dollars to the state. This is one of the reforms that you asked yesterday in the Hall of Government, your esteemed colleagues. This year we are also launching two portals to control the use of international technical assistance and state-owned enterprises. Since the first half of June, anyone willing will be able to get information about the financial situation of 3.5 thousand state-owned enterprises in online regimes. We're going to collect financial statements in electronic format, and anyone can see what companies are profitable, what enterprises are causing damage to the state. To see and conclude whether Ukraine needs privatisation. Administrative services are also available on smartphones. On the government portal website, you can get 125 public services in a fully electronic way. You can register online business, get a lot of help and get out of the registers, apply for help with the birth of a child and many other services. This is the joint work of many ministries of our government. By the way, honourable national MPs, you can also join in creating a state in a smartphone. Government Bill 10134 on "E-Baby" is a program that allows parents to receive 10 electronic services related to the birth of a child based on the principle of "one single window" directly in the maternity home. The complete set is from birth certificates to certificates from a large family. As soon as the law is passed, Ukraine will become a leader among the developed countries of the world for the number of services provided for a single appeal to the parents of the newborn child. Mine-economy has been working not only on the digital economy but also on the real sector: the development of industry and the development of OPC remains among our priorities. For three years, we've been able to re-producer the defence and industrial complex. If in 2014 we mostly repaired Soviet weapons and military equipment, did not produce any new samples, since 2014, some 26,000 weapons and military equipment of Ukrainian production have been transferred to the country’s security structures. Seven thousand of them are completely new and modernized samples. The Ministry of Economic Development has been able to increase the financing of OPC from 30 million in 2016 to 3.2 billion in 2018 – a large joint effort by the government ministries – we have done this together with Parliament, the National Security and Defence Council and the President of Ukraine. These costs have resulted in the production of 200 new weapons and military equipment in three years by OPC. And we have adopted many bills thanks to you, distinguished national MPs. The construction of the Light State Design Office has been completed. created. The construction office has completed its construction of a serious production project called the Wilha with a range of more than 100 kilometers and Neptune complexes. We've created production capacity for serial weaponry at the Fort Penalty. These are.45, 7.62 caliber ammunitions that will allow Ukraine to provide ammunition as a whole. We've started the production of calibre shells from 100 to 155 millimeters in the state company Artem. Only four countries own such technologies — the United States, Turkey, China, South Korea, and from now on Ukraine. At the same time, with the development of high-precision arms and ammunition, mining creates conditions for the development of armoured enterprises. We have discovered the production and expansion of diesel engines for armoured equipment, including the Oplat tanks at the Mališev factory, BTR-4 armoured vehicles, BTR-3 at the Kharkiv Construction Bureau of Engineering and the Kiev Armoring Plant. The Ministry of Economic Development will continue to work even after the change of political leadership. Reforms are made by people -- chief specialists, department heads, secretaries of state of every ministry. From a specialist to a secretary of state, they're people who are committed to the state of Ukraine and the state, they're hardworking, they're worthy, they're responsible and they're still working. And we, the honourable national deputies, have two months to serve the people of Ukraine. I suggest you put in order of the day and consider only three bills that significantly stimulate Ukraine's economic development. It's a second-reading concession bill (8125), which completely reforms the scope of concessional legislation. And it'll allow foreign investors to be involved. This is a bill to stimulate investment (8124), which will improve the position in the rating of ease of doing business. The so - called bill on economic decommunization (4,650) of Oxana Prodan, which envisions a relief to the pressure of control authorities on business. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u3	Heroic glory! Ladies and gentlemen, I now request that you record a statement from the factions and groups. Anyone who intends to participate in the discussion, please record and log in. So it's recorded by factions and groups. Please. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u4	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. I would like to address the representative of Minpalevenergo in connection with the tragedy that took place on the Lisova mine. Does the Commission work? What is happening and how is it happening? And what is the previous data on this case, please tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u5	Please Deputy Minister Korsun.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Deputy Minister Korzun. Today, there are only previous conclusions about the causes of the accident. Therefore, the expert committee has yet to reach its final conclusion. Only after the final conclusion of the experts will we be able to tell the exact cause of the accident and all the circumstances. On the previous information, there was simply a collapse of the wing, and behind the passport of the worker's office where the roof had fallen, they should not have been without appropriate precautions and the presence of senior engineering supervision. But the final conclusions will be only after the conclusion of the expert committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u7	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u8	Please pass the word to colleague Igor Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u9	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Considering that there is no Mr. Groysman in the government's bed today, it's probably the only person who keeps his word, I have a question for another person -- Paul Rosenck, who is in charge of medicine. Please tell me something like that. The Court of Auditors did a report here. You didn't show up. The abuse of hundreds of millions of dollars, people have to be held accountable. Today, MOH 10 minutes ago said that the ratings of the Court of Auditors are bloated ratings, and that's all wrong, they undermine confidence in the Court of Auditors. If you don't want to do it. Please explain the statement made by the National Service: 700,000 medical statements have been declared invalid. But 260 million went to places. Where is the money, and how can we serve those people who have these declarations eliminated?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies, well, first of all, we will certainly get all the conclusions of the Court of Auditors, and the government is trying to respond to them properly. But once again, within the limits of my own competence, which is in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is not a law enforcement entity that can bring criminal responsibility to anyone, so we know that the Court of Auditors has all its reports, all its acts under the relevant decision of the Court of Auditors are sent to the relevant authorities: the Attorney-General's Office, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, etc. So it's obvious that we're going to wait for the conclusions of the appropriate structures to give the officials the right estimates, and it's these bodies that have to determine the truth about who's talking about whether it's been effective, whether the funds have been ineffectively used. That's why this function and the authorization of law enforcement structures. The other one. As for the signing of a doctor’s declaration. It's mine. You're saying that about 700,000 declarations have been cancelled. On the whole, if more than 25 million doctoral declarations have been signed today, we ourselves understand the level of such a mistake. But obviously, in any process, there's an attempt to build or abuse these rights. So it is clear that if 700,000 declarations of more than twenty - five million were cancelled, there were reasons. But anyway, I want to say that no Ukrainian citizen will be deprived of adequate care, without adequate medical care and without the help of the health system. We will protect and protect the rights of everyone. So let me remind you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u11	30, 30 seconds. We're done, aren't we? Thank you. May I have a word with the People's Will of National Deputy Shahov Sergei?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u12	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich, for responding to the question of Czartkov-Milov – the transition in Luhansk region, Djomino-Alexandrovka. I've made all the appropriate references to you and I'm convinced that you'll be able to help Luhansk in the near future so that grandmas will see their grandchildren and be able to cross the walk-through -- it's not like moving there, and yet you've managed to solve your family's problems that you couldn't do for four years. The other one. I want to speak to the Minister of Energy and Coal, Minister Nasalik, I see he's not here today. The miners don't get paid again, that's the first. The barn books don't end in stores today. And second. Please tell me, how did the law work on energy today, and people have to pay for electricity in advance? Next. Today, TEC of Happiness is virtually out of coal. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u13	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u14	Tell me, please, how will coal work, because the contract is practically concluded today, how will the Happy TEC work?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u15	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. As far as pay is concerned, it's a question of today. By the way, there's going to be a meeting with members of the National Security and Defence Council on coal, energy, well, the whole complex that you've touched. And that's about coal. We're here today, we don't have a coal trade. And if there's a problem with the coal TEC, please let them come directly to us, well, let me, to whom, to the Ministry, to the State Carver, our public supplier. There's no problem with coal. And what's more, we are today and the price of coal is more acceptable than it was in winter. So coal problems today. On the contrary, we have a problem with sales, and we ask energy to take away the coal that we have today in warehouses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u16	Thank you. May I have a word with the People's Deputy Nemirowski's Block of Peter Prashenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u17	Good afternoon, reverend government! Dear colleagues! I have a question for the Minister of Justice. Unfortunately, I don't see him, so I'll ask. Stepan Ivanovich, such a question. In the second century, the whole country is watching the intense fascination of the 20th-thousand town in Kiev-Svetoshin district, this is Teaka. The base registrations, which are found in countless criminal conducts, are now unhindered about the business, at night they're rewriting companies for basic people, and in Minsk, they're quietly watching it – and nothing is happening. You get dozens of calls from businessmen, requests from law enforcement agencies, and Minust just ignores all of this. Explain to me what is happening in Teatza, and why is such lawlessness and apostasy flourishing in the Ministry? I demand that in a period of time my appeal, which was made three years ago, be considered and resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u18	The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Ivan Vassilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u19	Good afternoon! Regrettably, I did not hear the whole question because of the noise in the hall, but we will definitely consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u20	Thank you. I do. There's a lot of noise in the hall, but for you to hear, you have headphones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u21	If. If possible, the national MP would come along, and I've heard the address.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u22	Please come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u23	There's a proposal: a request to the National MP -- please, we'll consider it a request from the National MP, and accordingly you'll get an answer to him as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u24	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the "Rebirth Party" of the People's Deputy, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Stepan Ivanovich, I would like to address you with such a question. Yesterday, residents of the village of Rodnik of the Umánsk district, the village of Zorjane of the Christian region, and the village of Yagutec of the Christian region covered the route. They demanded the resignation of Olga Zaloga, who is the head of the Church Geocadastra. Because of the constant raiding of the land, the demand, and the bribes of $300 acre [300 acre]. And that's why, also yesterday, Stepan Ivanovich, the Cerkas District Council, voted in favour of the Prime Minister and the President to release Olga Zalga from the Church Geocadastra. I would like to remind you that, let's say, Mrs. Schemelinetz, the first deputy of the geocadastral. Therefore, the request to appoint a ministerial investigation and act according to the law in order to release. And the second question to the minister of culture. Order 352, there's a lot of talk from music schools, art about what will be reduced disciplines, and we're developing them, and that's why we don't have to do it, and vice versa, we have to expand this area. I'd really like you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u26	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u27	Thank you. So you can take it under personal control, and so we don't have to cut jobs in music schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. Considering that you have requested both the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, it means, accordingly, that an official inquiry will be conducted on a case-by-case basis in the Cherkas region. And I think Mrs. Olga Trophimtzev's second question will answer. And the minister's third question, respectively. Now, first, wait, Zhenya, first Olga Trofimtschev, and then Eugene Nietschuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u29	Thank you so much for asking. With regard to complaints about the work of the District Administration of the State Department, we too received this appeal. In line with the MPs' appeals and appeals of the All-U.S. Agrarian Council and agrarians, there will be also a service investigation, and appropriate measures will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Yatzenko, thank you so much for paying attention to art education. What I'm saying is that here, in the walls of the Supreme Council, there was a reform that was adopted that was moving very successfully. But, as always, in such cases there is another part that has not been fully understood of its advantages. In fact, art schools and music schools do not shrink, but they have increased in the last year. But I'm not just going to consider, I know about these people. And on Monday, I'm going to meet with them so that we can have a specific discussion, and they're going to make some comments, and they can be corrected. But this is the reform that is adopted here in the walls of the Supreme Council, which we are simply doing as an executive body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u31	Thank you. Welcome to the Self-Help faction of the People's Deputy Anna Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u32	My question to Stepan Kubi, to the Vice Prime Minister of the Economy, including who is responsible for such an important field as tourism. You've recently been papiering that it's as if you've increased the licensing requirements for tour operators. But I want to inform you that after this propaganda, which doesn't even foresee sanctions for unscrupulous tour operators, people of the 3rd century, already in Ukraine with children, they're in hotels in Egypt, they're being accommodated in the wrong hotels. And I have a specific question: are you ready to create a hotline in the Department of Economics and Tourism that will work 24 to 7 for those people who have suffered from just the frauds? Or give me your cell phone so that they don't call me at night with kids who can't either fly out or fly in, but you. And thirdly, what are the specific sanctions for the same unscrupulous tour operators?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u33	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u34	What specific sanctions will be imposed on unscrupulous tour operators who have been corrupting Ukraine’s image for three years and have been mass violating the rights of thousands of Ukrainian tourists?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u35	I don't know who's piranha, and you are. The Ministry of Economic Development is working within the framework of legislation. Another important subject. We want to develop Ukrainian tourism of Ukrainian cities, Ukrainian regions. And the third. Please form a parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u36	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kuprienka of the Radical Party faction. Please, Halasyuk, national deputy of Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u37	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, you just stepped out of the rostrum and repeated these mantras of deregulation, of opening a business in one day. What about those poor people who opened up this business, and you're giving markets to foreign producers instead of supporting the Ukrainian Buy, Pay to Ukrainians? Come to any meeting of the industry manufacturing association, and there you'll hear the objective state of things, there you'll hear what credit rates are and that they're impossible to take from a real producer, because the activity around the creation of the Export Credit Agency is being simulated in the government. Moreover, anyone who wants to build a manufacturing facility, instead of ensuring that they can join the engineering networks free of charge, as the Radical Party Bill stipulates, three skins of monopolists are torn down. What does the Ministry of Economics do? Or Industrial Parks? It was included in the list of priorities, but the finger was not struck to promote acceptance. The result is hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u38	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u39	The result of your policy is hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who emigrate abroad instead of creating these jobs in Ukraine. Why are you doing this? Can't or can't you? Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u40	You know, I'm the government's representative on the boards, so you have the same speech, it's politically correct, but illogical for life. And I respect Oleg Valeriovich, and we had a conversation with him, and I made it clear about the policy of our clear strategy for economic development. And today I've been reporting specific figures and facts. Even though we lost 20 percent of the economy, even though we've moved the raw economy, we're still going along with you, adopting laws, leading to innovation markets, what we want today is innovation and modernization as a form of an additional chain, an additional role. And we've met with you at not one committee, where clearly, step by step, we're moving towards market diversification, secondly, market innovation, thirdly, in the formation of cooperatives and agribusiness, and agrochemy, and IT technologies, and industrial issues, and machine building, and military work. I think, Mr. Victor, that we can not only continue to speak with you, criticism, certain things you do, is a perfectly normal thing. Let's work together, all the more changing the legislative base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u41	Thank you. And a final question from the factions. From Fatherland, Sergey Eutuszek. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u42	Eutushka, Fatherland. Dear Stepan Ivanovich, a few weeks ago in your presence, I asked Vladimir Borisovich Groysman about the verification and analysis of the use of DFRD funds, cited an example of the Plain area. And please tell me whether the government or any of the government's profile ministers have analysed the use of the DFRD, not just in the Plain area. Because I set an example when it comes to spending on those objects that are secondary to priority, but they don't build schools where children go in three changes and the need to build schools and all the documents, and the technology, and the expertise, and the tenders are already in place, but unfortunately the cost can't be obtained. Unfortunately, the position of chief executives was a little different from that of the people. Please give me an answer. Because in the Plains, in the northern regions, birth rate is massive, and that's good, it's higher than mortality. And these are the highest, best indicators in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u43	When I talk to the Deputy Minister of Finance, I want to say that, first, the Prime Minister's mandate is done. The other one. Priority areas for controlling the use of cost efficiency are defined. And the third. You and a few of the deputies who have spoken will be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u44	Thank you. So the factions' questions are complete. Now, questions from the National Deputies. Who intends to participate in the discussion, please prepare for the recording. And I am recording the questions of the National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for 20 minutes, please. Chubarov Rephat, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u45	Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, three months ago I was approached by relatives of Ukrainian citizens who were in Syria under different circumstances. This is about over 100 people, women and children. I repeat, women and children. These people, they've been through terrible war events in Syria, bombings and so on. They're in an international camp right now, but there are terrible conditions. We can't move this problem out of place for three months. This problem, it doesn't need public discussion at all, because it's about people's security. I went to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We've solved a lot of questions at the MMS level and special services. But now it's going to be necessary for a working group to be set up at the level of the Cabinet, because there are dozens of very specific issues to be agreed upon. I can't find an understanding in the government. Stepan Ivanovich, I repeat, these are Ukrainian citizens, from Lviv, from Kharkiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u46	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u47	They are citizens of Ukraine of different nationalities and cities. I have never seen such contempt for Ukrainian citizens on the side of the government. For three months, I can't move this problem out of place. I'm asking you to create this task force as soon as possible next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u48	You know, personally, when we talked to you on a number of subjects, we solved them both quickly and in time and as a result. On this issue Bodnar Vasil Mironović will provide information accordingly. I want to assure you that I will inform the Prime Minister today, and, secondly, a working group will be set up on Monday and Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u49	Thank you so much for asking. Of course, we're doing, as you know, along with the security services, our consuls are working on different sides. But now, today, there is a government decision that is very important, and of course we have made appropriate proposals to the government. As Stepan Ivanovich said, this decision will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u50	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u51	Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, when I hear your speeches, especially at the conciliatory meetings, I feel like I'm at a pedagogical university somewhere in the Faculty of Philosophy. But you know, the producers and I have developed a completely clear industrial reform package that provides for specific tools for industrial and economic development. And that's why I want to remind you of them. First of all, it's a free networking bill that will allow a model to be implemented, like in the United States and Israel. The authors are national deputies from all factions and groups without exception. The other one. It's an export credit agency that should not be a watchtower for officials, it's a waste of credit for real manufacturers. Third. These are laws on industrial parks that are included by your government and Prime Minister in top-35 priorities. And you don't stand up for them in Parliament, even though it's an investment incentive for everyone -- both Ukrainian and international investors in Ukraine. And the fourth. It's "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians." A similar law in the United States has been in force since 1933. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Head, given that these are repeated questions, I consider this a request from the National MP. We'll give you an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u53	Thank you. Martovitch Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u54	Good afternoon, citizens of Ukraine! Arthur Martovicki, 36th constituency. I have a question to Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman as before, I quote direct language as to "a self-respecting person with the life of a responsible person for his decisions, for which Ukraine is not just a place on the map." But unfortunately, he's not on our "hour of questioning to the government" today, so, Your Honor, Stephen Ivanovich, this question will be for you. Please tell us what your government was guided by when it adopted Decree No. 867 of October 19, 2018, according to which it is necessary for a thermal energy manufacturer to meet a number of insurmountable requirements for obtaining a gas nomination? How does a significant reduction in the real income of the population, and a long time of pretentious backlog work to collect debt for unpaid utilities, allow heat producers to reach the level of calculation from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u55	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u56	Energy will be able to reach NAC Naftogaz Ukraine at least 90 percent on April 1st, 19th? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u57	I think that the Prime Minister's statement, which was made and his speech, can only be commented on by the Prime Minister. The second question of decisions taken by the government as a collective body on gas pricing and supply issues will be answered by Korzun Anatoly Vasilovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter settled both at the legislative and regulatory levels. And when it comes to getting nominations, you, those suppliers with problems, have to go directly to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. If there are any other complications, there is also the National Commission for Energy and Communal Tariffs, so it's better to form its request as a deputy and fix it -- we'll give a thorough answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u59	Thank you. Macola Roman Mikolaiovich. Controversy Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u60	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Stepan Ivanovich, I have a question for you. Well, it's probably for the whole government. I see there's no minister of infrastructure. But with that. But at the same time, look, of course, most of this government has never been built on roads, and we understand that perfectly, and we always say that and speak, and that's true. But at the same time, well, that's why I don't, I see, there's a substitute, which is why I don't do that, which is where there's no road. This is what happens when we're on Winnitzkin, for example, it's built 20 kilometers, well, why not make it 18 kilometers, and make it 2 kilometers where it's not even there? That's what I'm asking for for my limestone. It's really where there's no road at all. I come out of the rostrum all the time. Well, why can't you do that in places? It's a good thing you put the roads in place. But you probably have to tell them yet, because we invited at least once the head of our highway from Winnitz, well, come for two minutes, for three, look, and you'll see for yourself what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u61	Thank you. Long Viktor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u62	Let the people's deputies finish. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u63	So do I. And we're asking you to come in for five minutes, come in. And we'll put some diesel on the road, some gas, see for yourself. He never came or reacted in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u64	Thank you so much for asking. Well, actually, Winnitzkin has actually made a lot of quality new roads over the last three years. Look, in October, I was at your place in Vinnitsky County, you know, with the head of the maintenance, we basically went through the perimeter of the entire area. We passed the limestone, too. Well, it's a question. Well, look, the basic projects you know about the Stoneman. Well, there's two routes to Uman and the transition to Moldova. What's more, a new bridge is being designed through Dniester's Jampil-Soroki. That road you're talking about is now on the balance of local government. So we just have to really, really get into the list, talk. Let me get a service manager there, a deputy district manager, and we'll talk. If there is such a social need, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u65	Thank you. Buckumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u66	May I have a word with the National MP, Kuril Vitali?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u67	Dear National Deputies! Smoking Vitaly, Luganskina. Stéphane Ivanovich, if there's a Krautodore going to Winnitzkin, they're only walking in the Luhansk region. All passengers were stopped. Freight transport comes in one go at a time. No food is imported into remote areas. Two weeks ago, I asked this question to the Prime Minister. I was assured that an appropriate meeting would take place in the Ministry of Infrastructure for which I would be invited. No one invited me, and the meeting was said to have been gone. Notice the Lugansk region: roads are 100 percent destroyed, and no one is doing anything. Two weeks ago, after the check-ins, no finger-toe was hit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u68	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. People's MP, I want to say that in Luhansk I personally held several meetings with Vice-Prime Minister Zubko on water supply, on communications, on infrastructure. This really requires a separate program, this particular issue requires funding, not one planning, and not one year. And I know that the Prime Minister of Ukraine has given appropriate orders in this direction. As for the current state of the road and for 2019, please give the word Victor Dougana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u69	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that yesterday I held a meeting with all the heads of the Departments of Profiles: Transport, Road Management, all the administrations. In the Luhansk region, there is indeed a problem. Yesterday, the head of the department, the head of the service, was warned. The meeting was about passenger and road transport. The Lugansk area is now being chosen as a pilot, and a special group is being formed from the Ministry of Infrastructure, Ukraine and Ukraine. I think there's going to be a big check for 10 days where we're going to go, all the illegal carriers are going to be tested, the licenses, the state of the road, especially in those directions, you know where we're at the points on the line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u70	Please, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u71	To be more specific on this issue. On 22 May, at a government meeting, it was decided (para. 2) that the State Service should carry out a financial and economic audit of Ukraine and the Luhansk District Administration in the last three years in the area of financing repair and construction work on the road roads of general use of the Lugansk region. As a result, inform the National Deputies, Shahov, the Cabinet of Ministers and factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u72	Thank you. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u74	Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I am pleased with your response to the Ukrainian citizens who are in a dramatic situation in Syria. I also confirm that of all the issues that we've been addressing, and they've been too complicated, you've been making decisions at the right time and professionally. But, Stepan Ivanovich, it's like there's some kind of power shift going on right now, and some have cooled down. Once again, at the level of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we seem to have decided everything that could be resolved: we met with international organizations, with some of our international partners (I don't want to put this on the air right now). But the coordination needed at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers and the coordination needed to evacuate these people needed to be strong enough. I'm sorry for what I'm saying. I'm asking you very much to lead this direction for yourself, because there has to be a very clear coordination here. I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u75	You know, we're in the last two conversations that we had, it's been a few weeks, we've made some difficult decisions, I'm taking the lead in this committee meeting and I'm going to report to you personally, and I'm inviting you to a board meeting. Let's do it on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u76	Thank you. Helen Babak gives the floor to Romanovi’s question. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u77	Stepan Ivanovich, as to what you said you were developing Ukrainian tourism, I have a number of questions. First, when will the Ukrainian Railway cancel payment for group booking tickets? When will normal roads and normal connections be made to our Ukrainian destinations? Because most people don't just have 3G, even just don't have a phone. I also have a question for the Department of Tourism that you're in charge of. They used only 25 percent of the funds in the last year to promote tourism in the world. During this year all tenders have failed, Ukraine is not participating in most of the important exhibitions that we need so far. Besides, why are Ukrainian hotels not categorized as having 93 percent stars? This categorization commission also works with your Department of Tourism and Resorts, and it's very bureaucratic. We can't go out into the world with hotels they don't even have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u78	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u79	World quality indicators. And as for requests for outgoing tour operators, I've written you over ten questions and queries over the last three years. And your advisor, he's going to pianize these non-lethal tour operators in his time of work, going to the exhibitions. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u80	I'll give you an answer as requested, because that requires additional specific answers in numbers and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u81	If you don't mind, I'd like to answer to the National MP on the railroad. Actually, you've been to us. We held a joint round table on tourism in Odessa and discussed all the infrastructure-related issues. And you know, the Odessa-Rani road, in the Carpathian region, there's a lot of roads. Now the priority is the Zakartat region, which I checked early in the spring. In fact, roads are now being built into tourist sites. And as for the pay for group armouring, unfortunately, the question here is to be addressed to the stockholders' society, not to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u82	Thank you. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u83	Eutushka, Fatherland. I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. A video was published by Minister Habakkuk as one of the sellers of his surname and name given to him by his father and mother, as if someone were giving money there in the Odessa region. Please tell me, at what stage is this investigation? That's the first question. And the second question. Since it is now valid for the President of Ukraine to order the dissolution of parliament, it is clear that both such things and bribes through the sowing of districts will be mass in major districts. Is the police ready to fight this phenomenon in the voice cluster? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u84	There is a Deputy Minister of the Interior, Troyan Vadim Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u85	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking. First. I'm going to study this question and I'm going to call you on the phone and I'm going to tell you exactly what it was, I'm going to study it. On the second question, we are fully prepared. You know, we're getting statistics not once that we're being held up, we've got cases going to court, and we've got administratives, and the police are ready to do their jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u86	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm warning you, two more questions are Bondar and Kuprienko, and we're closing questions from the national MPs. First, I give the floor to the question of Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u87	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. I want to thank the Ministry of Finance for its rapid response to Law 10307. They've already given me their proposals under this law. And I want them to draw conclusions on the budget committee as quickly as possible, because that law is in their knowledge. And for this bill to be considered quickly next week, it's just a change in the budget to pay the miners a salary. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u88	We, the distinguished national MP, will work quickly and will be in touch with you to work out the final text and the corresponding conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u89	Thank you. And the final question is Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Stepan Ivanovich, I am watching your discussion with my deputy in economic policy, Victor Halasyuk. With all due respect to you, but with this discussion, without respect for the national MP, the superficial one, it's very unpleasant to observe. If you don't like our political position, we have the right to it, we want to live in a country where people will earn a decent job. Your economic policy, in particular your ministry, is to cancel the books of complaints and the waste of state property. We're asking you to take a different policy so that you can direct economic development so that you can be a driver in your ministry's government. What do you do? And you don't give people hope, you don't give them a future. All your policies are 3 million employees in Poland, including your countrymen from Lviv. Half of Lviv is missing because they're on wages in Poland. And our policy is to bring people back to their homes to earn money in Ukraine, not just those in power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u91	Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u92	Thank you for your recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to say thank you for the good discussion. But I would like to point out that we need to find more time to work together, because the country in difficult times, and unfortunately in the country, is having a crisis involving the President's actions, and yesterday's release of the transcript confirmed this. What's more, yesterday we heard the President's representatives, members of his team, talking about the need to abolish the Language Act, abolish quotas, abolish decommunization, and unfortunately today it's becoming a normal policy for them. That's what I want to say on behalf of both the Supreme Council and the government: the Ukrainian people won't let you do this; the earth beneath you will burn. We will not allow any cancellation of the Language Act or the abolition of quotas or the abolition of decommunization. For decades, the Ukrainian people had come to this, and many sons and daughters of Ukraine had laid down their lives for it. Therefore, we need to face the challenges facing Ukraine with our shoulders on our shoulders. And I'm sure the rematch won't work. Thank you to the government for participating in the discussion. Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Thank you to all members of the government. And now I want to announce a statement from two factions. And they're willing to replace it with a performance. And I give the word to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday the President's Administration issued a transcript of President Zelensky's meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary factions. I've read this transcript carefully, and I'm saying that this transcript is published in censored form. In particular, when I spoke with President Zelenski, I told him that if he violated the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, he would be, like Pinochets, caught up with him for life. And he reminded him of the story of Pinochet, who was arrested in London at the age of 80 and died in London. This transcript, which was published yesterday, does not contain this passage of my conversation with President Zelenski. I'm talking to Vladimir Zelensky. You were talking about transparency. If you are such a proponent of transparency, why are you censoring? That's why I'm asking Zelensky to publish the videos of my other factions with the President of the President's Administration and publish the full transcript, uncensored. Because, according to my information, I remember what others said, including the heads of parliament, some of his speeches were also cut out. Why President Green Censorship? Let the Ukrainians draw conclusions. It's obviously the true eye of the circle. He's afraid of comparing it to Pinochet. But it's true. Because in an effort to seize power, the Constitution and the law are trampled on. Example: yesterday's interview with business partner Zelenski – Chief – an ancient business partner of one of the websites. Where this miserable Chief or Sheriff, I'm sorry, I don't remember his last name, they're crying that they lost the Russian market, that they made a lot of money there, that they could make 50,000 in Ukraine for the movie, and that they could make 200,000 in Russia. And so in order to get the profits back in the Russian market, he says, the law on language to cancel, the Ukrainian language from the air to clean up, Putin is good, Putin is not a maniac, Putin is not mentally ill, he's normal, and that's why we're going to settle with him, and if we don't, we're going to declare Putin's war. So what I'm saying is, obviously, Zelensky's mind is with his business partner Shepherd on the tongue. Because when I asked Zelensky what was the fate of the Language Act, what was the fate of the Land Act, whether he was going to review the conditions of cooperation with the IMF, you see in the transcript, he didn't answer. His interview with a business partner is proved, their plan is evidence of a pro-Russian rematch in a new parliament that they're going to do: repealing the Language Act, special status for Donbass, land sale. Because the main thing for them is the profits in Russia, not the restoration of peace in Ukraine, not the earnings for the Ukrainians in their country, but their own earnings in Russia, which they then earned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u95	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u96	The ones they're putting out in the offshore. Look at Zelensky's declaration, he was laughing at Dusty, an offshore barrier, and he was laughing at 20 offshore companies. So he's no different than Dusty. The guy was hiding money in the offshores, and he's hiding money in the offshores. Moreover, all the business environment that Zelensky has now assigned to positions is a direct violation of anti-corruption legislation, because none of them have declared a conflict of interest. I demand that NAZK file a report on corruption against President Zelenski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u97	15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u98	And I demand that NAMC carry out anti-corruption legislation: to file a report on the violation of corruption legislation by President Greensky and to demand the release through the courts of all the business partners he has appointed. We won't let Ukraine turn into 95 Quarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u99	Thank you. I, my colleagues, want to confirm that, indeed, there are some misrepresentations of text in the transcript, and some sentences have been deleted. But even with those changes, anyone who reads the transcript can confirm clearly and responsibly: no agreement has been reached on closed lists at the meeting -- none. And what was claimed to be an agreement with the heads of factions on open lists is outright false. And it's very sad when the presidency starts with the anti-constitutional decrees and starts with a lie. And it can be read by any human. Most, the overwhelming majority of the factions, were on open lists and did not support Bogdan’s idea that closed lists should be made. And by the way, the appointment of the Head of the Authority, in spite of the Book of Illustration Act, is for everyone who has been fighting for changes in the country since Maydan and so far, is just a slap in the face. And by the way, I'd like to hear all the public activists who fought for the Illustration Act that have been so active for five years. If we don't hear them, we'll talk. The laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the cleansing of power, on anti-corruption activities, on national unity, on humanitarian development will stand for us at all stages and in any way. And we won't let them break. Thank you, colleagues. Now we're going to the next section of the agenda, reading queries. And I'm handing over the word for questioning to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u100	Thank you very much, as they said in the famous transcript, it has already become a mam. And I'm starting to read the questions that 205 came to the fore today and registered at the Secretariat. So, respectable colleagues, requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Romana Zvarič to the President of Ukraine on the legality of the celebration of Basil Gretzak as State rewards. Carnations — A Bird’s Flock The ostrich and the others. 19) to the President of Ukraine. Guys, I want to remind you. I want to remind you that in order for us to be able to submit a request to the President of Ukraine, we have to go through a special procedure, and first this is the nominal support for the request of at least 150 votes. So I very much ask, colleagues, now to support Roman Zvaric's request to the President of Ukraine for the legitimacy of the celebration of Basil Gretzak with the national awards of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:10:32]] For-31 There's no potential. I ask the Secretariat to refer this request to the Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration, which does not require a vote. Groups of People's Deputies (Ptachnik, Kishkara, others, only 19) to the President of Ukraine in response to a public statement, invoking a position on further relations with the aggressor country and in providing information on the representatives of Ukraine authorized by the President in the Minsk format. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. [[11:11:17]] For-34
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u101	Similarly, there are not enough votes. I ask the Secretariat to send this request to the President's Administration, the head of the President's Administration. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the allocation of funds for the operational intervention and endoprosteticization of the ball joint of Bolslav Delfas, resident of the village of Rudnja-Grodište of the Žitomir district, Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the operational treatment of the closure of the defect of the interstitial cross section of Krynicky, who lives in the village of Trost of the Wonderland, Žitomir district. Sergey Kaplina to the temporary duty of the Minister of Health to prevent the elimination of the therapeutic ward in the village of Nekhvorost Poltavian region. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Police, the Human Rights Council Commissioner, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the BSS, the Attorney General's Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Michael Bondar to the temporary duty of Minister of Health, Minister of Internal Affairs, Chief of State of State for the State Environmental Inspection in the Lviv region on problems with the processing of pesticides and the deterioration of the health status of residents of Lviv. Sergia Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Ministry of Infrastructure, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economic Development concerning the establishment of a light-year facility on the road to general use in the village of Pyrogovki Hmelnicki district. Igor Guza to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the right to vote in the elections and referendums of Ukrainian citizens who are on the consular count of Ukrainian embassies in other states. Igor Goose to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on the Rejection of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Improvement of Administration of Local Taxes and Congregations. Savchenko's hopes for the Head of the Court of Auditors to provide information on the reasons for the absence of information on the Court's website as a result of item 5 of the February 26th 19th session on the effectiveness of managing the material values of the State's material reserve. Artura Martovicki to Kiev City Head on the return of documents that show ownership of land, buildings, and farm buildings. Irina Herashchenko and Maria Ionova to the head of the National Police Police on the response of the authorities of the National Police to the Ukrainian citizens' Picquet held in Reveny on May 25, 19th, on the removal of President Vladimir Zelensky's impeachment from office. Sergio Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. Alexander Opanasenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the provision of information. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for causing particularly large-scale harm to the State through the non-use and disposal of vaccines due to non-professional activities by officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Deputy Attorney-General of the National Health Service for the purpose of attracting criminal responsibility for crimes bearing signs of possible fraud committed by officials of the National Health Service of Ukraine, a professional deputy of the Minister of Health and the management of the state-owned enterprise Electronic Health for causing material harm to the State. Taras Batenka is the head of the Lviv District Administration, the head of the Lviv Arch for the inclusion of the Rozwadow Regional Society of the Mikolai district of Lviv region in the prospects of the able territorial communities of Lviv. Tetjana Bachevi and Yuri Pavlenko to the Cabinet of Ministers, Kiev City Head, for not allowing the closure or reorganization of the Children’s Hospital No. 7 of the Cave district of Kiev. Tetjana Bacheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the International Foundation of Medicine in higher education institutions. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of the criminal investigation No. 120191100000069 of February 22, 2019. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General to prevent the conduct of pre-war training and military and patriotic training of young people in Military City No. 1 in the city of Brovary. Yuri Boyka to Prime Minister, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for not allowing the closure of the Children's Hospital No. 7 of the Cave District of Kiev. Mikhail Dovbenko, Minister of Health, Minister of Social Policy for the Treatment of Autism - Diagnosed Sick Children. Gennady Chekita to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, heads of the Kyiv District Government on the use of measures to shape the territory of the citizen Nina Petroszuk. Victor Vuka to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Attorney General on violations of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine and crimes committed in the formation, execution and legislative implementation of "minish treaties". Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister for an immediate solution to the issue of debt on payment of wages to miners and debt to coal companies for a single social contribution. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the municipal non-commercial enterprise "Brovar Multi-Professional Clinic" of the Brovar District Council of the Kyiv Region and the Brovar City Council of the Kyiv Region, the Brovar District State Administration of the Kyiv Region, the Kyiv District Public Administration on the need for the full contribution of Valentin Tkachenko to the realization of the inherent natural and non-violable right to health protection and timely medical assistance from the authorized authorities of the State. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on negative trends in the chemical sector. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the resolution of the problem of insecurity in the education sector of the region of Kharkiv. John Savka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the provision of housing for military personnel in the city of Mikolayeva and Mikolayev region. Andrija Lopushanski, Michael Doubbenko to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the need to provide Ukraine with oil products. Andrija Lopushanski, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Finance Minister of Ukraine, was temporarily responsible for the need for an additional medical subsidy to pay for the work of members of the Sambir Central District Hospital in the city of Sambir Lviv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of funds for the capital repairs of the education facilities of the Tetij district of Kiev. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv Authority on the need to allocate funds from the budget of the Kyiv region to the capital repair of the pediatric department of the Skuri Central District Hospital in Kiev. Alexander Opanasenka to the Society with limited responsibility for the protection of the rights and interests of consumers. Victor Romanyuk to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection, acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the systematic facts of the unwarranted activities of the Ukrainian bird factory in the village of Krusenk Vassilk County of Kiev, which has a detrimental impact on the environment and on the life and health of citizens. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate repair of road T-03-11 in the area /R-14/-Sedište - Kamin-Kashirski-Kovel. Irina Konstankevich to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Volin Region and the Manevicki Local Prosecutor's Office. Vladislav Buharev to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, Prime Minister on the need to establish land boundaries for the "Gethman National Natural Park" outside the settlements in the territory of the Grandpisarovsky, Trostianec and Ohtyr regions of the Sumi region. Vladislav Buharev to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport, Prime Minister for the Prevention of Reorganization and the Elimination of the "Locomotive Depo "Smorodine" of the regional branch of the "South Railway" in the city of Tristanc Sumska district as a single enterprise. Romana Macola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science on the re-examination of the issue of the allocation of funds for the establishment of fire alarm at the Shepetov College of the State Agrarian Technical University. Romana Macola to the Minister of Social Affairs, Director of the Department of Social Protection of the Hmélník County Public Administration for the provision of a multifunctional wheelchair for persons with a disability group I and other issues. Artema Witka to the Prime Minister on the inaction of state authorities and local self-government in resolving the issue of the funding of the educational complex in the New Sanjara district of Poltava. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister on the extension of the deadline for financing primary health care for citizens living in rural areas where there is a shortage of doctors of general family medicine. Vitalia Kurila to the Prime Minister for ignoring the professional duties of officials in the repair of the road and the construction of the railway branch of Svatov-Bilokurakina in the Luhansk region. Vitalia Kuril to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection for the purpose of verifying the legitimate establishment of tariffs for KP "Starrobilskvoda", which is a monopolistic provider of water and water supply services in the Luhansk region. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Justice to ensure a reliable level of protection and uninterrupted functioning of Ukrainian electronic databases. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to reduce public debt for public services. Robert Gorvato to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade, to supplement the List of Goods Banned from the Russian Federation. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister about the repayment of the debt from the payment of wages at the enterprises of the city of Kharkiv. Valeria Pisarenko to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the repair of schools and kindergartens in the Shevchenkov district of Kharkiv. Michael Kobcev to the Minister of Interior, the Minister of Social Affairs, the head of the Mikolai District State Administration, the Mikolai City Head for Social Protection of the IMF Pensioner, persons with disabilities in Group I. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the increase in debt from salary payments as a negative result of deindustrialisation in Ukraine. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the minister of youth and sports on the preparation of the reserve and composition of national sports teams and their participation in international competitions. Dmitra Špenov is the head of State inspector of Ukraine for the Energy Inspectorate of the State Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine for the immediate implementation of the measures of state energy control in connection with the impossibility of joining the electricity network of the users of the villages of Mariyevka and Makorta of the Sofia district of Dnipropetrov. Irina Heratschenko and Mary Ionov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the response of the authorities of the National Police to the facts of the spread and public use of the symbolism of the Communist totalitarian regime, the perpetuation of the memory of its representatives, and the invocation of the responsibility of the guilty. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, temporarily acting as Minister of Health, head of the Ternopil district government for the ongoing renovation of Maximov’s district utility hospital in the area of Ternopil. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs, for the multi-child families of the Crimea region of Ternopil. Igor Kotwiecki to the Minister of Education and Science, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council, the head of the National Police on combating child abuse. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Culture for the creation of a state-of-the-art historical and architectural reserve in the town of Nizhin Chernigiv. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science, for the promotion of salary for preschool teachers. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, for the reconstruction of the second building and for the installation of the I-II secondary school area at No. 180 in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the ill-governance situation in the area near the Kiev Metro Station, Lisova. Vitalia Chapinoga to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastral issues of non-use for entrepreneurial activities of land areas, which contain mass graves of the Poltans shot during World War II. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Minister of Culture for the non-admission of violations of Ukrainian and international legislation relating to the protection of cultural heritage. Dmitry Timchuk to Minister of Foreign Affairs, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Minister of Justice for the accession of Ukraine to the Second Protocol (99) to the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Values in the event of an armed conflict signed in The Hague on May 14, 54. Dmitry Timchuk to the Chief of General Staff, Chief of Staff of the U.S.S.A., Minister of Defense for the Implementation of the Hague Convention (54th) on the Protection of Cultural Values in the Event of Armed Conflict. Roman Semenha and Jaroslav Markevich to the head of the National Police Department in Kharkiv County, Prosecutor of Kharkiv Region for the provision of a full, objective, comprehensive investigation into the arson of the "Everything for Victory" volunteer tent in Kharkiv. Paul Rizanenka to the Minister of Social Affairs for the use of urgent measures to provide parents and children of multi - child families with evidence of the appropriate pattern. Paul Rizanenka to the prosecutor of the Kyiv region, the head of the Kyiv district government, on the use of response measures to address violations of the legislative requirements in the use of budgetary funds. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Social Policy for parliamentary control over the proper functioning and maintenance of children's health and rest facilities, the strengthening of child nutrition control in these institutions, the urgent establishment of a fully open register of facilities for the recovery and rest of children. Vadim Krivochatka to the head of the Zaporezki District Administration for the transfer of patients to the KU Hemodialysis Department of the Zaporezki District Clinic of the Branch District Council to the Energodar Zaporezki District. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister for the development of draft legal acts in the field of water of natural mineral and the order in which water is determined by natural mineral food. Borislav Bereza to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Minister of Internal Affairs, on some issues in the area of fisheries conservation in Ukraine. Jury Miroshnicka to the Cabinet of Ministers, Kyiv City State Administration, regarding the appeal of the citizens of the JC "Eastern Gate" in Kiev to build and operate many apartment buildings. Yuri Miroshnichenko and Yuri Pavlenko to the Kyiv City Head for the provision of a disabled child with a summer cure. Alexander Gerega and Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister on the efficiency of the use of funds allocated by the European Union to support reforms in Ukraine. Andrija Shinkovič, Alexander Gerega to the Prime Minister, head of the Antimonopoly Committee, acting as Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food to regulate the pricing mechanism in the agricultural production market. Jury Levchenka to the Minister of Culture on illegal land and other work in the territory of the Parks of Krestaty and Vladimirska Górka, which pose a threat to the object of cultural heritage and violate legislation in the area of protection of cultural heritage. Jury Levchenka is headed by the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the immediate use of measures aimed at halting the illegal exploitation of the foot-and-mouth crossing between the Christian Parks and the Volodymyr Hill, which threatens the life and health of the people. Michaela Papiev and Yuria Pavlenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Secretary of the Czernieweck City Council, acting as head of the Czernieweck observatories for gross violation by the Montenegrin City Council of the rights of the child, failure to comply with the requirements of the law of law in part of issuing certificates for many children and paying the parents for the third and the next child. Savchenko’s hopes for the director of the State Bureau of Investigation for information to the GDR regarding Chief Military Prosecutor Mathios A. W., the heads of the Grissack V. S., Attorney General Lucenko U. W., according to the fact that the latest fraud-related crimes were committed under the command of Peter Prashenko, the results of the investigation of the explosions of munitions on March 23, 2017 in the area of military A1352 near the city of Balaklia, Kharkiv district." Igora Lucenka to Deputy Henprocuror of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor for Ineffective Trial Investigation (investigation) for the possible murder of the younger lieutenant of the 24th Special Storm Battalion of the SAF "Idar" Alexander Gumenuk. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the provision of original documentation on the subject "National Memorial Complex of the Heroes of the Sky of the Hundreds-Museum of the Revolution of Dignity". Anna Romanov to the Head of the Court of Auditors to verify the efficiency of budget use. Oleg Osuhovsky to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, head of the deputy faction of the political party "The People's Front", the head of the parliamentary faction of the Radical Party, the head of the deputy faction "Block of Petra Poshenko", the head of the deputy faction of the political party "Unification of Self-Help", the prime minister of Ukraine, the head of the deputy faction of the political party "The Opposition Block", the head of the deputy faction of the political party "Unification of Self-Help", the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration for the elimination of the corruption component of legislation. Oleg Osuhovski to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Council of Security and Defence of Ukraine on the marking of Ukrainian defenders. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations committed in the organization of passenger transport in Poltava, the opaque conduct of competitive selection, the determination of the value of the service and the conditions for its change, and the lack of assurance of the quality and safety of passenger transport. Yurya Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations committed in the reconstruction and renewal of the Airport Poltawa PAC, inefficient use of budgetary resources and financing of its current expenditures at the expense of the local budget. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on proposals for the drafting of the Ukrainian Law on Justice, Child-Friendly. Jury Pavlenko to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of orphans and children deprived of parental care, particularly children who have gone abroad. Alexander Dombrovski to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Head of the National Commission for State Regulation in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Vinitzaoblanergo, Director of the Society with limited responsibility of Enera Winnicz for the reasons for the inequitable supply of electricity to consumers living in the village of Zarwanci in the Winnitz region, and for the implementation of measures to address shortcomings. Irina Sisoyenko, under the temporary responsibility of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the need to amend the relevant legislation of the Ministry of Health in order to bring them into line with the provisions of the Basic Health Legislation of Ukraine as part of the voluntary accreditation of health facilities. Irina Suslowy, who was temporarily responsible for the Ukrainian minister of health for providing information on the number of cancers among women in Ukraine. Irina Souslowy to the Minister of Social Policy to provide information on the provision of social security for women and men in Ukraine. Ruslana Demczak, pending the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to give urgent consideration to the Ukrainian Ministry of Health’s Committee on the referral of Darmograd Jaroslav to treatment abroad. Ruslan Demczak, head of the National Health Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as the Minister of Health to improve the Ehealth electronic system by developing an algorithm for confidential data. When you change your family doctor's confidential information. Alexander Kirsch to the Harkow city head for repairing the inner-quarter roads and sidewalks near the residences on the avenue of Akademic Kurchatov, 4, 6, 8, 8-A in Kharkiv. Jurya Bereza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on some of the issues of money security for military personnel. Sergia Dunayeva to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Security and Defence Council of Serbia, and the Security and Security Council of Serbia on the lifting of sanctions against the Hare of Serbia. Sergey Dunaev to the Cabinet of Ministers, National Security Council, Security Service for the lifting of sanctions against Wergel Sergey. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General on the non-extradition of a volunteer. Victoria Ptašnik to the Attorney General on the misconduct of police and prosecutorial officers in the area of Zitomir. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, the State Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the General Prosecutor-General's Office, and the comprehensive protection and protection of constitutional rights of citizens. Yurya Timoshenko to the Colomia City Head of the Ivano-Frankow region for systematic disturbance of public order in the residence. Jury Derevyanka to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine on the need to settle the issue of debt for a single social contribution to the general public social insurance of persons who have stopped entrepreneurship (in particular before 01.01.2017) and who have incurred such debt due to the improper conduct of the local income and the administration of the single social contribution, including through the untimely sending of (debt) claims to pay the payers. Jurya Derevjanka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget Reserve to address the consequences of the disaster that took place during April - May 2019 in Western Ukraine, including the Johno-Frank region, on the need to identify the situation that has arisen in connection with such a disaster, an extraordinary state situation. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the Corstosian School of Education, II-III, in the area of Žitomir. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Migration Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Authorized Human Rights Council on the need for an objective review of Lemesh’s Ally Jurijn regarding the provision of comprehensive legal assistance, housing and registration, and other matters. Dear colleagues, we have completed the publication of parliamentary inquiries. We have several petitions from Ukrainian national deputies who are not satisfied with the answers that came to their parliamentary questions. In particular, we have two such allegations of dissatisfaction from Igor Mikhajlovich Shurma as requested by the Attorney General, the Head of the National Police to bring to justice the responsibility of the officials of the MOH in connection with the deaths of people who have suffered measles, and the Prime Minister to violate the terms of appointment of the Director-General of the Institute of Hearts. Please, six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u102	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You know, this was so interestingly annotated, and I asked for an answer, and I got an answer that I'm not happy with. I assure you, all my even political opponents who are sitting here, and even any Ukrainian citizen of any nationality, religion, and ideological beliefs, if he were to address this subject and get an answer like that, he wouldn't be dissatisfied, he wouldn't understand what country he's living in. And it is likely that this answer, which came from officials today, gives a final conclusion today as to why this authority received one fourth of the support today. Let me remind you what was the point. A hidden and incomprehensible conflict between the Ministry of Health and the State Institute of the Heart of the Ministry of Health was that Boris Todurov had a number of objective, well - founded reasons to accuse the Ministry of sabotaging the full functioning of this institution. You know that Todurov isn't just the manager and not just the manager, he's a wonderful cardio surgeon. Tens, hundreds, thousands of people not only in Ukraine but also on the European continent owe their lives to him. In spite of this conflict, the term of the agreement, the contract, and its position were reached. How it was supposed to be legal and how it all happened. I remind you that the conclusion of the agreement, so that you are aware, is being implemented in accordance with the requirements of section 12 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Scientific and Technological Activities, according to which applicants for leadership are chosen by secret ballot in the congregations of a group of state-of-the-art scientists for a term of up to five years within the time limit defined by the statute of the state institution, with the right to be re-elected. What happened specifically to Todur. The election process is where the entire elite of the governing coalition, the controlling, stressing word, see how the elections are going to take place. The elections took place where Boris Todurov’s preference was unanimously given. According to part of article 9, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technical Activities, a contract with the elected head of the state institution is made by the owner, in this case by the Ministry of Health, or by an authorized authority during, I emphasize, one month from the date of election by the statute, but no more than 7 years. Now please see what happened. On December 18, 2018, Todorova was elected Director General. However, he was invited to the Ministry of Health only on March 1. It's been a while. He went through all the necessary facilities and facilities. There was no objection. Just 01.03. In 2019 he was invited to an interview. On more than one occasion, he was subject to additional requirements. After the intervention of other national MPs, he was asked to sign a contract, think about cynicism and non-professionalism of the Ministry employees – there is both Linchevsky and Kovtonuk and Suprun – he is offered to sign a contract for six months in violation of all laws! We're going to Deputy Prime Minister Rosenk, "Come to the committee, listen to the point of view, read the laws." Here's a promise: I'm going to have to look into it and make contact. It's two more weeks. I'm asking you again. question: why is there no contract? Deputy Minister Kovtonjuk: we're looking, we're signing, we're going to do everything we can to make a deal. It's two more weeks, and I'm asking questions at the Prime Minister of Ukraine's "government hour," which also gives the Ministry a mandate to make a deal and consider the issue. Today, in fact, June 1st — the deal is not settled. Vladimir Borisovich, I've told you, I've always told you, draw the responsibility of Suprun. Now I'm going to blow a fly from the Suprun so that you can keep it in your government. She dragged you all down to the bottom of President Dustenk with her ratings, her actions, she'll draw you all and it'll be very good that you've all landed in summer and were never allowed to do such things again. But as long as it's pulling you to the bottom, I told you that those logs would drown you. As the head of executive service, you are obliged to comply with the law, to be responsible and accountable today for making an agreement with a person who goes to the operating room every day. You're putting him in a stressful situation. And I want to tell you that first of all, Suprun and all of you will be responsible for every death of every person who didn't survive because you didn't make a deal, you don't make a deal with Todorov. Make a decision. Take care of mine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u103	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u104	Please consider my statement as an opportunity to address Prime Minister Groysman of Ukraine on the issue of resolving the conclusion of a contract with Todorov in accordance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u105	Thank you. The following is recorded regarding the failure to respond to his parliamentary request from the People’s Deputy Lechchenka. Please welcome, Mr. Sergio, to your word. A request is made to the head of KMDA Klicka for the transfer to the utility property of the Kyiv district community of Dragomanova Street. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u106	That's absolutely right, ma'am. That's what. Well, you know, I don't know, it's up to the Supreme Council to even talk about such terrible things. But I can't help but say it, because people say it all the time. We have in Kiev huge housing units that were built by Kiev's Kiev construction organization Kyivmiskbud, they were put into operation. But the streets that were killed during the construction of these residential tracts continue to be in a terrible state, unable to pass or pass. In particular, part of the street of Dragomanov in the Darnitsky district of Kiev. If you can hear me in the Darnicki district, you know it with your own eyes, because you're going there, and it's me you've been addressing with this. And as an MP, I turned to the mayor. The distance between the street, sorry, Ahmatov, almost told Ahmetov, between Ahmatov Street and Zdolunovska Street, has not yet been transferred to the balance sheet of Kiev. Checks from the mayor, receipts from deputies about what needs to be passed on. So pass it on, it's in your jurisdiction. Kyivmishkbud is your organization, where is the head of the city council in the management warehouse. And the city council, it has to balance this street, put it in order, make it, eventually, suitable at all, for it to be able to use people, so that it can be passed through and passed to fit the level of the European capital. What do we have instead? We have an absolute non-scrupulous attitude toward people. Why do I say that? Because I'm not just speaking out of Parliament's rostrum or going to people's receptions. I go to the mayor with this question, I've walked several times. Personally sitting in the mayor's seat, sitting in his deputies, sitting in the heads of the board, just shaking his head and saying, da-da-da, da-da-da. And a note by letter, a note by letter. But this isn't about building a hyperculpture, it's not about running a cosmodometer. It's just to tarnish a piece of road. Even steal money from this asphalt, keep it, put it in your trap, but make people live. Do you understand? Well, it's not supposed to turn into some kind of totally frostbite. But, unfortunately, it's transforming. And this is not just about Dragomanova Street in the Darnitsky region -- all over Kiev. The district of Delhi, Frunze Street, was renamed Kirilivska Street. So rename it and repair it. If you have already done decommunization, repair the street so that you can pass through it instead of leaving the wheel and then spend your blood money on repairing your cars. If you are engaged in illegal construction in Kiev, at least then repair the roads after yourself. And they didn't remind me, they took it and they went, and then everyone after you has to go and get it. The whole city is in a jam because of the lack of infrastructure. The subway to the Vineyard when will it be? The subway to Trinity? They've forgotten, they don't even promise anymore because they know they're gonna lie another time. Such authorities are not worthy of the support of citizens; they are to go into nonexistence in the city of Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, there's been a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front" for a break. But at the same time, our colleagues, the deputy head of the People's Front faction, Andrew Teteruk, are ready to replace, and the two factions are ready to replace, their statement for recess, immediately for the performance. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! You have the honour to witness all the historical events that are taking place in the Ukrainian Parliament, in the Ukrainian society, and in particular how the newly elected President of Zelenski held a meeting on the issue of the suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council. And the transcript of this meeting, which has already been published on the President's official website, is being planned, we plan to add to the Constitutional Court's case as evidence that President Zelensky had no constitutional basis for adopting such an order to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council. This was a direct quote from the President himself, he admitted that he had no constitutional basis, and he was guided solely by political purpose, and he was guided by ratings, ratings that were not mentioned in the laws and reference. So we're going to add this transcript to the Constitutional Court to prove that this decision is deeply unconstitutional, it's populist, it's based solely on Vladimir Zelensky's own positions, and it's not in any way consistent with the current Constitution, and the legislation of Ukraine. This is really unacceptable, this behavior, because even this behavior was not allowed by the previous presidents, and those who allowed are now under the protection of the FSB in Rostov in the "Golden Cage" and are the hostages of the Kremlin. All those who try to usurp power or act contrary to the Constitution in Ukraine, history proves that they all end very badly. And that's why, warning all those who make decisions now in the high-ranking cabinets, first to be guided by common sense, a common sense of upholding the rule of law and then slowly but absolutely unstoppablely, we will be building the very rule of law, where everyone will have the right to defend, to develop and guarantee that before the law they will all be equal, equal. But no. The purpose of the law to enemies and to friends is everything. Everything they want. And these are actually very threatening trends. So, in summary, I want to say that even the transcript, which, by the way, has been censored, which worries me very much, will be joined by the Constitutional Court, and the court will determine whether we will continue to live in the rule of law or in a state whose authority will be usurped by a group of individuals. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u109	Thank you, Your Honor, for your performance. Dear colleagues, the People’s Deputy Ariev approached the presidency in an orderly manner. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, in December 2015, I was speaking on the situation in Kotovski. and law enforcement authorities in the Kotovo district of Odessa. And I made one mistake in my speech, which was the result. He got a subpoena. As a law-abiding citizen of Ukraine, I will now read out the judgment of the court. "The fact that it is not credible to acknowledge the information concerning Black Igor Borisovich, which is distributed by the deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ariev Volodymyr Igorovich 25.12.2015 from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the 46th plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the former head of the Kotov tax police, Igor Black, was not released from the corruption authorities." I want to add to myself that this person was formally released at his own request. But the events leading up to this liberation were actually the reason for my speech. Everyone understood why the chief of the Kotovo District tax police was released at his own request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u111	Thank you, Sir Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I will now announce a recess of up to 12 hours 30 minutes. And I would like to remind you that on Friday we have a traditional performance by the deputies under the heading "Victory." I very much ask my colleagues to return on time from recess, and at 12 o'clock 30 minutes we will start recording all the desirable Ukrainian national deputies who wish to speak out of the Supreme Council's rostrum today. And now I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u112	Fellow national deputies, back to work. We're moving on to the discussion at the Miscellaneous. I'm asking everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to prepare, we're going to do the recording now. You remember, we're pushing all our own buttons, yes, strangers and neighbors, strangers, anyone else, we don't touch. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u113	Respectable Ukrainian citizens! This Supreme Council has been living for the last days of its existence. And among the tasks we've taken, but I have to admit, and I'm willing to admit mistakes, we haven't done enough, even though we've spent all our efforts, but still we haven't pushed enough power to make the necessary changes to create independent anti-corruption bodies in Ukraine to eventually stop stealing budget money, money that we're all paying as taxpayers to change the election system in Ukraine, so that we can finally get Parliament to decide on ideologies, values, and not just sooting districts. And in a few weeks, you'll see that you're going to have food sets in the districts, how you start distributing oil, Greek, rice, sugar, tea, biscuits, candy, and so on. Trust me, it's all the money you stole. And those who give you these food kits, or even worse, give money all over the house, are the people who will then come to Parliament. And what will they do? Do you think they're going to work for themselves? Of course, no, first of all, they'll do everything they can to make up for the money they put into the election, make up for it to be such a business project, a startup, the most profitable starting point in Eastern Europe: buying a deputy's mandate, going to parliament, and then doing your own enrichment. Therefore, do not vote for those who distribute food or money. Take it, because it's yours, it's yours. They took Greece, they took it. But don't vote for these people, or we'll just never get out of this vicious circle. The second question. We're going to have to finish this election to clean up the government from corruption. You can see what's happening. The President-in-Office calls for a direct text: Henprocuror is an application for discharge and out of office. And what do we hear in response? We're hearing back. The cloud in your pants is called the answer, everything in the world is told, but the answer to the question is not given. Lucenko does not want to leave his post, which has become the same corrupt political startup for him. Yesterday, it was a direct text that stated that he was preparing for the President's release, that he was serving the last days, and don't be surprised if he suddenly started to have American defense attorneys who would tell him something about Trump's environment, about Juliana, just to keep Lucenka in the Attorney General's office. It will end very quickly, and it will end in great shame, because you can't so long for power, you can't use it for your own wealth. The third question is, how can we build an honest policy in Ukraine so that in the next parliamentary calls, we don't see this sales corruption. To that end, we must first question the next call to adopt a new electoral law so that any parliament can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u114	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u115	You're very strict today, you used to give 30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u116	Okay, 30 seconds. They're all the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u117	Thank you. In order for the next Parliament to adopt the Electoral Law on the first issue, and everyone already knew in advance: it will never happen again. And finishing his speech. Maybe this is the last time I'm speaking out of the Chamber today, because today the Dust Block is holding an assembly and it's quite possible that they're going to deprive me of my parliamentary powers. I was proud to work in this Parliament and do everything I could for you, honourable Ukrainians, to change the rules of work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u118	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u119	Thank you. Like the last word in a court of law. If only Ukrainian politics had become honest. And I'm not ashamed of these years, I'll continue to work for you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u120	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Palamarczuk. Who? Please, National MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u121	Dombrowski tells me, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u122	Do you have your speech?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u123	No, I have Palamarchuk and Dombrowski, da-da.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u124	Okay. Colleagues passed the word, two colleagues, so it's six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u125	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I thank Mikola Palamarczuk and Alexander Dombrowski for giving me their word. And I have the opportunity to speak, perhaps not like Sergey Lechchenko, for once, not the last time, but the last time. I don't think it's extreme, God willing, we'll be out of this rostrum again. We've still got a month and a half, we're not fully deployed yet. We heard Stéphane Ivanovich Kubiva today, who was really reporting on behalf of the government. And we see that, as he said, 20 percent of GDP is lost, we have factories in Ukraine and so on, coal mining, but together with today, as Stepan Ivanovich said, the government is working. And that's why the same thing goes up in the 1st quarter of GDP is 2.2 percent. This all gives us the opportunity to say that we recently voted in favour of resigning the government yesterday. And you know, I would say, really, what would that do if we even voted? Absolutely nothing, anything equal to a government would carry out its duties. But with the International Monetary Fund today, we have to work with it, and we don't even have anyone to work with. And that's why I think it's very fair that it really was possible. And we didn't vote yesterday, and the government has the opportunity to continue working. Because I think there's going to be an election in a month and a half, and please. Like the resignation of ministers, I'll say, the resignation of ministers is the same. It will also go into the hall, but we don't see any new ministers today, we don't see them today. If we had seen someone today, of course we would have come together and voted, because we really saw who we are voting for. Unfortunately, today's new president, his administration, we don't see that. I think God will give us the right to vote if we see the law. Today I've been able to ask questions and finally all the time I've been stepping out of this rostrum for these roads, well, I've finally heard an answer today. Yes, of course, there's nothing to say, but the roads in Ukraine are being built, and there are no questions. And perhaps in all 27 years, it has never been built as it is today, as it was built last year. That's true. But again today, in the end, I heard the deputy minister's response to infrastructure, transportation, communications and all that, that he was going to send someone to limestone, to my district, to limestone, to look at this road, to see its quality. Why, I asked the right question, and today I would like my voters to hear it. Because roads can be built, and they are built, but first, attention should be paid to roads where they are not. And, truth is, today, God will give us, we'll see, maybe on Sunday, when someone from the wattodore will come to us in limestone, and we'll show at least once in these four years, because they've never seen this road, and I think they'll see, and maybe they'll figure something out. In order to be able to cross some part of the construction of these roads from the second section, not to be completed, where 30 kilometers are being built, already two kilometers, three miles, nothing would have been decided there. But first of all, it would have to really be built, so they wouldn't want it, but they would like to have people there who are struggling, who already wanted to go out and cover the roads. But I think after that, this rock is going to be removed. Again, I will continue because we are going to the elections. And of course, from this rostrum right now, this month and a half, there will be no more specific speeches or anything, but there will be elections. Elections, elections, elections. Well, right, I'm supporting the Lechchenka himself, who said that today the issues that we have to solve in this room, for the next election, maybe not for these elections that will be July 21st, but for the next one we have to decide. Why? Because we must not tread on the same rakes today, and we can tread in. Why? Because once again we're going to elect a parliament and we're going to have a mistrust of this 4-5 percent and so on. You could trust me. If only today. Everything depends not on the sitting in the hall, not on the deputies, which depends, as Lechchenko said, on the electorate. And this is the electorate. And it's up to the voters to decide who to choose, who not to choose. You don't think it's Lechchenka's day that I'm just confirming those words because he was the first speaker. And of course, and of course, no matter what the same rakes do, we see a visit in the hall, we see a performance, we see who works, we know that majorists are not obliged to build roads that are not obliged to sow there in Greek. They have to work in the hall, they have to. They have to write laws, they have to work on legislation, and we're used to the fact that majors, their main task is to distribute Greek and build a house there. That's our trouble today. And, I think we should deal with this problem with you. And so I would very much like there to be no pear performances from this room. Today, we have to speak only for work, just for the work of the past and a half months, so that we can adopt all the laws: the same one about inviolability, the TSC, election law, impeachment, and so forth. And we could have done it by October, but we have to do everything in this short time, maybe everything we can to make sure that most of these laws are adopted, not for ourselves, but for people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u126	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Michael Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u127	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. Dear viewers, distinguished listeners, honourable deputies, I would like to raise two key questions, those that come to me from my constituencies in the district that are concerned. First of all, it's a question that. The Government's decree of April 1, 19th, that the government, at the request of our national deputies, increased the payment to help many families. That's 1 thousand 700 dollars for one child under 6 years of age. Sadly, though, many problems have arisen in receiving such assistance because many children are required to be certified in the welfare departments. The residents of the Kremenack district, of the Pocajevo family communities, this is the Old Taraz village, this is Alexinac, this is Budki, this is Lidichov, this is the Danube, this is Rostoki and others. They are hundreds of families who are unable to obtain this help because they are required to do so in local social protection. So I'm still asking as a national deputy that the government should immediately issue a decree, an internal order, instructions to the socialist not to require those families to give them a certificate of many-year-old families. Because they're artificially creating conditions that they can't get help -- payment for children. After all, you know well that our neighbors have a practice where they support large families where they support young mothers. By the way, the fact that Parliament failed this week's Support for Pregnant Women Act is a disgrace to us and unacceptable. So I still urge you to consider this question. Because the support of many families is very important to us. Because children are the main treasure of our nation, this is our capital, this is the future of our nation. The second question that also concerns my residents, the electorate in the district of Ternopolska, is the low price of milk. I've been raising this issue since 2014-2015 and there's our bill registered in Parliament, which I am one of the authors of this law, by the way, a lot of deputies have signed up to increase the payment to our dairy producers, our peasants. And so it does., practice is in European countries. In the same Poland, the Czech State grants aid where peasants are paid for milk. Today milk pay is a penny – 4-5 bucks and so on. Of course, the fact that the water in the store is more expensive is unfair. People work hard, people work hard, but unfortunately the government doesn't notice. I asked this question yesterday to Prime Minister Volodymyr Groissman, who grants donations to oligarchs such as Kostuk, who assists Ahmetov, who helps other great magnets of Ukraine, but instead pays no attention to small farmers, ignores peasants who are suffering today, who are working hard and the state is ignoring them. So Freedom is the next position. To adopt our law immediately to support producers of produce, rural products, dairy producers so that farmers can work and get a decent salary for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u128	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u129	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, we all know that the Constitution of Ukraine states that the vital value of the state is the life and health of its citizens. But unfortunately, it's only on paper. We all see a terrible situation today where mortality is much greater than birth, when epidemics in the country are terrible, especially environmental epidemics, children are ill, adults are ill, the elderly are ill. And all of this is because the state of ecology affects each of us, without exception, it's the inhabitants of small villages, small cities, but especially the inhabitants of large cities in Ukraine, where there are huge industrial enterprises. The situation was too embarrassing. The state is now making environmental taxes, it's collecting money from enterprises that go to the general state budget fund, they're scattered, the state doesn't report to anyone where this money goes, but they don't go to environmental protection. And today we have a situation where businesses don't invest money, because they're more comfortable paying this environmental tax because they need huge investments, and it's convenient for the state to fill in the budget because of this environmental tax. That is why Oleg Láska, a team of the Radical Party, studied the leading experience of European countries, such as the Kingdom of Sweden, the Czech Republic, to see how the state supports key industries and energy, as it does everything to ensure that businesses respect environmental issues. And that's why our team has proposed bills 10146 and 10147 that will allow you to reform the environmental tax in a way that creates tax incentives so that businesses are interested in investing huge costs in environmental modernisation to do everything they can to preserve the environment. We suggest that we do this very simply. First, companies invest, invest money, and then the state gives the enterprises that did it, and they confirm it, up to 70 percent of the environmental tax to save. Thus, the state becomes a partner of businesses, and the Ukrainians are given a clean environment that will enable those generations now living in Ukraine and the future to preserve life and health, preserve the environment for our children and grandchildren, and join the European community. Unfortunately, our European partners are very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u130	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u131	A clean environment and ecology were preserved. And to the Ukrainians today, I mean in the person of the state, unfortunately, it doesn't matter. Let's do everything we can to have a clean country and a clean environment for our future generations, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u132	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u133	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Honorable Ukrainian citizens, whether anyone thought in 1986 when a tragedy occurred at Chernobyl’s AES, about a possible recurrence of tragedy, then people were killed and the consequences were terrible. And today we can talk about what's going on in Ukraine: Medical Chernobyl. Why am I talking about this? Because what is happening today in health care is far more harmful, more tragic than it was in Chernobyl. Think of the situation today, we live under the motto of the Deputy Minister of Health: "It's cancer. They're all gonna die. And there's no way." And for that, no one was held responsible, and she's working on it. Today, Deputy Prime Minister Rosenko said that when the National Health Service carried out a verification of declarations, it accounted for 700,000 declarations that it was a mistake. You can imagine, almost a million people today who won't have the right to free services, it's a mistake. 260 million from the state treasury, which was allocated for their service, money goes to patients who have gone to Lithuania, and they just don't have it. If we look at what happens to international supplies, we will see an even worse situation. Few oncology treatment programs are available today in 2017, 2016, and 2015. Oncosis is not waiting that long, this "medical Chernobyl" has terrible consequences. Both moral and legal responsibility is vested in power today. Yet, in all those years, in the last four years of the population, the difference between the dead and the born has decreased by 1 million citizens, and 60,000 health workers have gone to work in other countries. Cyrus has captured 100,000 people, Ukrainian citizens, more than 30 have died, today suffer from this disease in the United States, and in Israel, more than 30 people have died from botulism, these are the consequences of medical Chernobyl here in Ukraine. And today it has to be said that in 30 years, there may be a possibility that once again American directors, like the Chernobyl TV series, which is the most recent in history, will write about "medical Chernobyl" in Ukraine, and just like understatements, unprofessional acts of power have led to the extinction and disappearance of a country like Ukraine, can write in a few years that it will be a crime against humanity. Vladimir Borisovich, if you don't want to be the main hero of the TV show, take measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u134	I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u135	Andrew Illenko, 215th District, Kiev Dear Ukrainians, today I would like to raise the subject of my constituency. It's absolutely insane, the shameful situation that's happening there, with the illegal, absolutely barbaric sand mining for commercial purposes -- for sale, in Lake Diamond, which is located in Troy, behind a forest cemetery. Last year a large sum of money was allocated. About 30 million bracelets have been allocated for the "Pleso" KP to clear the lake of Diamonds, and this money should have been long developed in that direction. But in practice, anyone can make sure, there's no real cleaning work, after cleaning this lake, in fact, there's just industrial sand mining that's just being exported for sale. And it's an absolutely terrible situation that happens under the nose in all law enforcement agencies that don't react in any way. And of course, people, the inhabitants of the surrounding masses, they're indignant because they're actually destroying the lake, they're getting sand out of it, and it's still happening under the cover of what's supposed to be cleaning and cleaning it up. I appeal to the law enforcement authorities, using the importance of the speech, from the parliamentary rostrum, to get them started immediately. They stopped this process and started investigating why it happened, and they finally got to the bottom of it, especially this one. I wrote a parliamentary request, which a month ago, more than a month ago, at the end of April, I had sent an appropriate number of parliamentary queries, they were announced at a meeting of the Supreme Council, but there are still no clear answers, there are no answers at all. This process is going on. And you just have to understand that if the government doesn't work, if the state doesn't work in these situations, if the law enforcement authorities don't work, then the Ukrainians will have to take over. I don't want that to happen, of course, but there's no other way. And as a national MP, of course, I'll be on the side of the people, and we, the Freedoms, will be working on moving this process out of place, and such illegal actions will be halted. So I encourage law enforcement to finally start working. And we need to preserve our nature, not destroy it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u136	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u137	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, head of the coal industry subcommittee. I want to start by saying that in connection with the tragedy on the Lisova mine, President Vladimir Zelensky is meeting today for a meeting. For their participation and members of the National Security and Defence Council. The invitees, including Mr. Alexander Dombrowski, as the chairman of the PEC Committee. I wrote to Alexander Daniluk to be invited as the head of the subcommittee. Unfortunately, there are no answers yet, so I want to talk to him about what I would be happy if they did respond and invite me, because there's a lot to talk about. I'd like to prove the situation in the coal sector, why there's no funding for coal mining wages, why there's no coal production, why the Centrenergo doesn't take from state-owned coal companies the coal that miners get, and so we don't have coal then, and we have to adopt laws where we from the State Budget try to make up for this difference in the cost of coal production. And that's what happens every time. raises resentment not only for the members of the committee but also for the colleagues in the hall, because there are a lot of areas that probably also need to be funded, and for the national deputies to pay attention to them. So miners have been saying all the time that they're willing to extract coal in these quantities to be fully self-sufficient and self-sustaining. And in the future, this can be paid by the EU and paid for electricity, it can buy new equipment to upgrade mines and, above all, pay wages. But first of all, this is the realisation of their coal production, which is currently to be purchased by the State Enterprise Centrenergo. I still agree somewhere with the court's decision, which has now blocked the actual privatization of this enterprise. We have to, first, sort it out, sort it out, pull everything out, what the Centrenergo's been doing all these years, and why he didn't take coal from state-owned enterprises, but he did, bought it from what's called "watching Kropachev's digs." So once again, I'm addressing Mr. Alexander Daniluk, and I'm also asking you to invite me to this 3 o'clock meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u138	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u139	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the new president of Zelenski immediately faced responsible international challenges. Yesterday he and the foreign ministers of Germany and France were thinking about reviving the Minsk Process and reanimating the Normandy format for peace. So again we heard an old and awesome piece of powder. The continuation of President Prašenk's green weak policy is a road to nowhere, and Ukraine already has very weak international positions as a demeanor today. Oleg Lášk's team strongly advises President Zelenski not to be a hostage of the powdery legacy, not to be an addict, not to be afraid to openly declare the death of the Minsk treaties, not to be afraid to demand a change of negotiating format from Minsk and Normandy to Budapest, as promised by candidate Zelensky during the electoral campaign, not to fear the dissatisfaction of world leaders by defending the rights of the Ukrainian people, and to remind the guarantor countries of their commitment to the Budapest Memorandum. Today, the Council has announced my parliamentary request to the Attorney General's Office and the State Bureau of Investigation for gross violations of the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine and for the commission of crimes in the formation, execution and legislative implementation of the Minsk Treaties. The request contains a legal analysis that testifies to the legal futility of the Minsk Treaties, which have no legal force under the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine and international law. I have claimed that former President Prashenko and Minister Klimkin had committed a crime of abuse of power and duty. The Committee will be That is: to take unlawful action on the illegal signing and execution of non-ratifications by parliament and non-constitutional Minsk treaties, such as the illegal introduction into the Supreme Council of bills on the implementation of these agreements and the targeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on illegal enforcement. I remind President Greene of the conclusion of Professor Vasilek's great international lawyer: "The actions of the Ukrainian authorities to the aggressor on the basis of the misappropriation of the Minsk Accords will be a betrayal of national interests. And the world's democracies, by forcing Ukraine to act as an aggressor, become accomplices to the crime of aggression" – the end of the quote. And the task of our investigation is not only to bring to justice the responsibility of Prashenko and Klimkin, but also to prevent and warn President Zelensky and his future minister against violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This is certainly the case in the future when they lose their authority and integrity. Oleg Lachka's team will take care of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u140	I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kosheliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u141	Alona Košeljeva, Oleg Láška Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Today, I want to draw society’s attention to health issues. Ukrainians expect the authorities to take decisive steps to obtain professional medical care and quality and affordable medicines. At that time, the government continues to be indifferent to the problems of ordinary citizens, and the Ministry of Health, after launching global reform, is unable to fully implement it and even cope with the basic tasks. It's not just an evaluation of the Radical Party, these have found their confirmation both in the official report of the Commissioner for Human Rights and in the report of the Court of Auditors of the previous year, which Parliament heard this week. And here's a concrete example of life. Taking advantage of the occasion, I want to draw attention to the pain of the harpsichord, the mother of two children of John’s Helen of Alexandria, and more than two hundred people from all over the country whose fate has been met by an extremely difficult test. These people are struggling with a very rare progressive and deadly disease, adrenocortical cancer of the nadnephrodisiac gland. This disease is extremely subtle, because in the early stages it flows without any symptoms and is poorly diagnosed, so it's not defined as a malignant tumor. Sometimes the fact that the tumor is malignant becomes clear only after relapse or metastases occur. The main form of treatment is surgery. Preventive therapy after surgery is carried out by a medicine called mitotane, which is part of most of the chemotherapy protocols for this disease. These drugs have given hope to many countries of the world, but unfortunately not to Ukrainians, for the prescribed drug is not produced in Ukraine or certified. Once again, the active authority leaves people alone. The sick and their loved ones are alone with all the truths and lies they have to seek out for the sake of carefree people abroad in order to survive. Desperate patients have registered a petition to the authorities for the registration of this drug in Ukraine. I publicly appeal to the government to help these people overcome the administrative barrier. Such a policy must be changed. The cost of the budget must be spent effectively and primarily for the benefit of the people. No political race matters when it comes to human health and life. I want to assure you that the Iron Party of Oleg Lachka, led by the leader, is protecting every Ukrainian citizen. We will require the introduction of insurance medicine, availability of medical services, restrictions on the cost of medicines, cancellation of VAT, and strict liability for counterfeiting. We will fight for every Ukrainian citizen and we will win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u142	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the Romanov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u143	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, my colleagues, who are now in the hall! I want to point out, of course, that Ukraine lacks tens of billions of dollars in its economy from the tourism industry. Today you've all seen, maybe I've been talking to Stepan Kubi, he's the Prime Minister who's doing economics and he's supposed to be doing tourism, and what incompetent answers he's given to my questions. I clearly understand that if Ukrainians spent $8 billion on foreign travel, they could work for the economy of Ukraine. But to this day, the authorities are doing everything they can to develop exit tourism while braking the interior and the driveway. Here's a basic example. If Ukrainians bought travel for this kind of money, foreigners arriving in Ukraine spent a little over $1 billion. What does that say? What we don't get. What does it take for Ukrainian tourism to develop? Of course, these must be real steps. And we need to build transport infrastructure. We need to simplify our entry to Ukraine, for today the Ukrainian visa is twice as expensive as the Schengen visa. We need to create real tax benefits for those who are developing the industry for hotels, as is done in all EU countries. We also need to put in place modern European standards. You know, in order for a five - star hotel to have its own five stars right now, you have to meet the pro-Racian old standard. Well, for example, you have to have a radio, and there's no mandatory conditions that you have to have Wi-Fi. Whose job is this? This is exactly the work of our Kabmin, which is completely ruined. That's why we have 93 percent of hotels in Ukraine today that haven't gone through the bureaucratic procedure of assigning stars. It's a signal for foreigners who planned to go to Ukraine but are afraid. They hear that we have an armed conflict, and no one – neither the Ministry of Information Policy nor the Ministry of Economics – is resisting such negative information about Ukraine. In addition, I want to say that all the money that the deputies have allocated to the Department of Tourism in order to promote the tourism resources of Ukraine in the world has not even been used. In the past year, only 25 percent were used and the rest were burned. What does that mean? That in all exhibitions Ukrainian cities, Ukrainian territories are not represented. And now that Kabmin's representative can't answer any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u144	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u145	Regarding "The Crucifixion", which introduced the fee for group booking tickets, cannot answer the question of quality, about the protection of Ukrainian tourists. This only shows that I am completely incompetenced, that I do not want to do this important thing for Ukraine, and that I do not regret at all, that I was one of the 97 people who voted in favour of this government. So I think it's going to be very soon. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u146	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u147	Dennis Silantiev, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Not so much remains of this call by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before its powers are completed. But has much Parliament made this call beneficial for the country? Were the instruments designed in the form of laws designed to stop the multimillion-dollar migration of Ukrainians in order to stop the tariff genocide in order to develop their own economy and restore the domestic industry in order to finally strengthen the State's responsibility to the unprotected population and to protect human rights? Yes, indeed, laws have been passed that partially solve these problems. And I mean the laws that initiated Oleg Lachka's Radical Party. For example, the Law on the Moratorium for the Export of the Roundwood Forest, which stops the violent smuggling and export, the illegal export of the roundwood forest from Ukraine, which creates jobs involving millions of investments. Is the Law on Upgrading Exports to Domestic Metallurgy, which enables Ukrainian metallurgy and metallurgy to work and develop today? It's the Export Credit Agency Act, which deals with the cost of a business loan. The Radical Party has also developed legislation to support people with disabilities. Unfortunately, the number of children with disabilities is on the rise today, amid declining birth rates in Ukraine. And today, there are about 3 million people in the state. Today, the international and European community is united in order to help and protect the rights of people with disabilities. And Ukraine cannot stand apart from these processes. On the other hand, we are doing everything we can to gradually transform Ukraine into a state of old people and people with disabilities. The tasks of the State and society in relation to people with disabilities should be expressed in ensuring access to key and vital areas, such as social protection. And here I'm talking about pension insurance. Also provide access to social services, rehabilitation, education, health care, employment, science, transport infrastructure, and so forth. Instead, all that an active government does today is distance them, people with special needs, from full social life. The social reforms that government officials so bitterly tell us about are nothing more than a imitation of violent activity. And no positive results from these reforms have been felt by people with disabilities in either the medical field or the pension sector, professional and, among other things, higher education and science. So, dear friends, we will see to it that in Ukraine we respect and do not violate the rights of people with disabilities and guarantee their social status.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u148	Thank you. And I invite you to the words of the national deputy of Halasjuk, and his colleagues have also given him the word. It's six minutes long.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u149	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the policies of the previous President Prashenko and his team have led the Ukrainians to poverty, mass emigration and infidelity. Because they were lying, they were talking about Euro-integration, and they were doing the exact opposite of politics. Because real European integration is about bringing the income level of Ukrainians closer to European level, and the country has the exact opposite. That is why the citizens of the elections voted confidently against Dustenk, his team, and his politicians. But what will the new authorities do with that huge loan of trust it received from Ukrainian citizens? In fact, the statements that are echoing from the team of today's President Zelensky that their party's dominant ideology is liberalism. Because liberalism, maybe not all Ukrainians know, I want to share it with you, it's a totally shocking thing, it's social Darwinism, it's a difference in the state pension system, it's a difference in the state health and education system. So you have money, you learn, you don't have money, you don't learn, you don't heal. This is the elimination of government subsidies like these, so you don't have money, so you go out and you don't get any support from the state. These are private armies and courts. This is no State support and development for industry and the agricultural sector. So this is totally unacceptable to Ukraine, the Ukrainians, to ideology. And I'm asking President Greensky's team to comment on this, his attitude towards his advisors' statements, on his party's statements. Ukraine needs a completely different one. Ukraine needs a re-establishment of the rule of law, Ukraine needs respect for the law and stability of development, Ukraine needs high and state-provided social standards. And in order to do that not only in the Constitution, but also in fact, you need a working, powerful economy and industry. And that's exactly what Oleg Laska's team is proposing in parliament, an anti-crisis economic development plan. We need to radically change the economic model of the country. Because today, unfortunately, we've seen completely incompetent speeches by the government, the minister of the economy. They're inaction, they're incompetence to preserve the role of Ukraine as a raw colony in the world. We sell $7 billion of grain around the world, and the flour made from this grain is only $70 million. The flour costs more than the raw material. Spaghetti costs 5 or 7 times the cost of grain. So why sell grain when you can create jobs in Ukraine? Not selling land, not selling raw materials, not selling or selling, what the current government and current government are proud of -- selling ready-made products, developing Ukrainian farming, cooperation, deeper agricultural processing, selling food around the world. And this will allow Ukraine to take a European orbit. So Lalashka's team is proposing to replace the raw model of the economy into industry and investment based on the very specific tools that I have been talking about in my questions to the government today. These are industrial parks, powerful investment incentives to create new productions in Ukraine; this is an Export Credit Agency; this is a waste of credit for Ukrainian producers, for entrepreneurs to win tenders abroad, not to lose tenders in their own country. Because this government sabotages "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" because they don't recognize the priority of the Ukrainian industry. Thus, this industry and economic policy of today’s authorities must be radically changed. Moreover, the Radical Party team insists, in principle, that we move away from the practice of borrowing the International Monetary Fund, from these foreign loans, which drive the Ukrainian economy and every citizen into cabal dependence. You see, as a result of the wrong, wrong, anti-Ukrainian policy of Dustenka today, Ukraine depends on the loans of the International Monetary Fund. And the new president instead of developing industry, as the team of Oleg Láschka insists, they are considering alternatives: either defult, or further cooperation with the IMF. In fact, cooperation with the IMF and defolt is bad for Ukraine. Moreover, the continuation of this IMF's "credit shot" has also had consequences in the future of the default, because the economy will not be able to serve itself. If we don't develop industry, if we don't develop our own economy, and that's exactly what we can do, and the Radical Party team is offering, at the expense of what. The "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" law, which is sabotaged by this power, and we hope that the next parliament will accept it. Industrial parks, Export Credit Agency, free to join engineering networks. And finally, a change of priority. The previous president and today’s authorities are pursuing policies of low wages, low incomes. The Láška team offers an economy of high wages, high citizens' incomes, which will increase domestic demand, create additional orders for the Ukrainian industry, give loans to the International Monetary Fund and other creditors, and be a wealthy country in the centre of Europe, where citizens live on their home land happy. That's the kind of policy that needs to be pursued.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u150	Welcome to the speech of the National MP, Savka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u151	Thank you. The noble lady of the presiding, the honourable colleagues, the dear Ukrainians! During the integration of the "Step 2" license exam, which is made up of students from the medical institutions of our State of Ukraine in 2019, there were some problems that led to an unspecified assessment and questioned the validity of such an examination in general. The test consists of 200 tests, which give the student 200 minutes — one minute at a time for each question. Most tasks were twice as large as those of the previous years. A large number of tests had questions like, in your opinion, the most appropriate and others that led to subjectivity in the response, and this type of test cannot possibly testify to the level of student knowledge. There were a lot of tests that were debated, a few correct answers or none. Some tasks show a deficit in data on basic pathology in the background of excess information about satellite pathology, which is secondary to the choice of the correct answer. And there were a lot of such violations. I appeal to the temporarily acting minister of health, ask you to take personal control and check the facts and take appropriate steps to resolve the issues. That is, allowing us to translate test tasks that meet the standards of the Ministry of Health’s education program in Ukraine. Ukraine’s future doctors are the elite of our nation. Please describe my statement as a parliamentary request for a temporary duty as Minister of Health of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u152	Thank you. Please form the Secretariat as a parliamentary address. And I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u153	It was from this rostrum that President Zelensky, who was elected this month, said that he was sending Parliament to the elections. Someone said they agree, someone disagrees, but it's a politically sound position. And the election is the election. But now there are new voices. Some say that they can’t print a newsletter, some say that they can’t print information boards. I want to ask you what it is. Is this C.V.C.K. playing some kind of political game right now? Or it's going back to the old rules when someone's trying to pull the election to mobilize their electorate to give out more Greeks in order to get more votes. What's going on? In fact, if the President issued a decree, and someone is now advising him to postpone this decree, I want to remind him that this is an illegal decision at all. There is no such situation as the postponement of the President's decree. Moreover, it would be a criminal offence. That is why he can only cancel his decree, and then the election will be in October 2019, just as it should be. It's not going to be another election, it's going to be another election, it's going to be what they said in the walls of this Parliament. But what will the President look like after that? So he's running the turn, then the turn. I think that the people who offered him a solution took advantage of his lack of experience and manipulation. This is what I see not once in Ukrainian politics, I've seen and seen again. I want all of us to live in the rule of law, so that the decisions that are made by the President's Administration, the Cabmine, the Supreme Council, are always legal and have only positive consequences. That's different. Otherwise we'll all end up in legal nihilism. And it's like a boomerang, a legal boomerang that someone once launches, they catch up with him. That's why I want to say right now, if the election is the election, if it's the 21st, it's the 21st. And you don't have to cancel. Moreover, there is no need to try to undo anything in order to resolve personal matters. The elections will take place in Ukraine on July 21. I'm not sure it's the best date, I think the best date is October of this year. But the President has launched this process. That is why no one should be disturbed — either by the process or by the will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u154	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u155	Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev, 221 district Dear voters, dear colleagues! Well, there was a miracle in Parliament this week that our profile committee, which couldn't get together and hold any meetings for six months, finally found strength, found a quorum and passed on, for which I was grateful to those colleagues who came, carried out their duties, passed on a long-suffering, promising election code with open lists here, in the parliament wall, to vote. Hopefully next week, we'll start working on this bill on Thursday, and we'll make a decision before the next election. Why it's important to explain, let's maybe for the voters who don't fully understand what open lists are and why they need them, very short. Today, we have the worst election system in the world -- this is a compilation of majors, where in Greek, bribery and everything else they buy just the mandates of rich corrupters and a compilation that consists of the second part of Parliament, from completely closed lists. So a candidate with a suitcase walks into a party manager and just buys a seat on the list. What happens next? Well, these people who paid millions of dollars, they're not benefactors, they're not meticulous, they're starting to get this money back with profit, selling voting for laws, selling voting for ministers. And then the minister who bought himself a job -- he's not a benefactor, he sells public office, he sells business leaders, he sells competitive, tender and other commissions. And so corruption through the corrupt system of elections goes to parliament, and from there it's spread to government, to state enterprises, to the whole sphere of our country's vitality. How can this be stopped? Canceling the corrupt electoral system, adopting the Open List Act is the only way and the only way out. So, now we're going to a temporary election and this law won't allow us, more specifically, we won't be able to apply this law in these consecutive elections, and we get it back in Parliament and the corrupts, and those who put the money in the list. But we can make it possible for the next Parliament to break this vicious cycle of corruption. To that end, we need to vote in favour of the Open List Act. Moreover, we need to do this until the day of the temporary election, so that everyone's fool can be seen, so that all Ukrainians can forgive who has promised and failed, who is the liar here in the walls of the Supreme Council, who must forever shut down the political future. And that's what we need to see before the next parliamentary election. We'll do it, we'll all see everyone by their names, everyone in the face of those who promised and fulfilled or failed. With what we all actually welcome, that's the opportunity we have, it's going to happen, I predict, in about three sessions of the week.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u156	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u157	In three sessions of the week, we'll go through all the amendments and we'll go to a successful vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u158	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u159	Dmitry Linko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. In the last few weeks, Ukraine has simply heard a number of very serious statements from Greensky headquarters from its business partners, who are now in charge of state offices. At first, President Andrew Bogdan, director of the administration, announced that they would hold a referendum on friendship with Russia. At a time when we're at war with Russia, when Russian occupying forces are standing in Donbas, annexing Crimea and not going out there, they're offering us a referendum. Any referendum on the territorial system during the war is a direct crime against the state. Then we hear an interview by another business partner of the Green Shepherd who tells us that Ukrainian language prevents them from earning money in Russia, that the Language Act they're going to cancel, cancel in the next parliament, and that Putin is good, he's not a maniac, and you can make a deal with him. I want to tell Greensky headquarters, maybe they didn't notice, but we have a fifth year of war. Tens of thousands of our best sons died in this war because of Putin's politics, because of his, indeed, manic ambitions to destroy Ukraine, and he's not stopping. What's more, there's a plan in Moscow for the surrender of Ukraine called "Minish Arrangements," which they're going to implement here in the next parliament. Ukraine's capitulation, federalisation and partitioning of Ukraine is what they planned with the regionals in the future parliament. Only strong pro - Ukrainian forces can resist this. And the Radical Party is going to the next parliament to stop the pro-Russian rematch, as in the 15th year we moved into opposition to then-President Prashenko because of attempts to reach out then the Minsk Accords and Special Status, the "autonomy" so-called "Donbassa" on August 31st 15th. We blocked this rostrum and failed to implement Ukraine’s capitulation plan. That's when we went to the opposition to Dusty. We have now moved to the opposition to Zelensky through his and his teams to claim a future rematch of promoskovsky against Ukraine. These statements, they're not just harmful, they're not just demoralizing our army today that's defending our country. They lead to chaos, to the country being on the verge of a deflation and on the verge of civil conflict. We won't let that happen. We have the strength, we have a plan to bring peace back to Ukraine. Indeed, peace is not by surrender and defeat, but by a strong country, by victory. And we're going to fight for it, and we're going to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u160	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u161	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, respected Ukrainian citizens, may even be consulted, the reverent, suffering people of Ukraine! Because I'm listening to these speeches, so when you're told about the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that next week we're going to be doing a bill there on temporary and special investigation committees, we're going to do the Electoral Code. You know, it's kind of like we have people living in Ukraine separately, and people's deputies are kind of in their tenth dimension. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you all while you're here speaking out as salesmen of shells, which are laws: there's the Ukrainian Budget Code, there's the Ukrainian Rules, which I specifically took with me. Because this week you voted in favour of the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Groysman, and you voted 92 votes. And at the same time. 97 votes, and none of you asked: "Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, there are 152 articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules, which clearly spell out the stage of budgetary policy. Do you know at all on the fifth year of your stay in the Supreme Council of Ukraine that by April 1, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the main directions of budgetary policy? And do you know what part five of this article said that by April 30, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had to consider this question, which was to be reported to the Prime Minister here? Why do I say that? Because instead of dealing with people's problems. And the budget is the main document of Parliament and of the country's life, because the budget indicates the basic parameter is the minimum of living from which pensions are calculated and wages and social assistance, which is the value of the consumer basket. So if Mr. Groissman went out to this rostrum this week and said that Ukrainian citizens won't get anything next year, neither pensions nor wages, but they'll get an increase in gas, electricity, utility twice, I don't think there'd be 97 votes, but there'd be 300 votes in favour of Grysman's resignation. Now you've given him the opportunity to go out to the people, to borrow eyes from Syrka, and to say, Your Honor, I'm so worried about you next year I'll give you happiness. Where is happiness? It was to be anchored in the main directions of budgetary policy. Without affirming them, they will now go to deceive people with expectations that will never come true. Again, people will go to vote for promises. Instead of obeying the law of Ukraine, every official would speak only of what he has done, not of what he plans to do and deceive people. That's why I insist that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u162	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u163	"The Opposition Platform for Life" insists that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine implement the rule of law, article 152 of the Rules and Budget Code, and next week that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the main directions of budgetary policy as seen by the Cabinet of Ministers for the coming year 2020. I'm asking you to support this. And let us be honest with the citizens of Ukraine, before our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u164	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u165	Levchenko, Freedom, 223 district, Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv. I'd like to speak today as the Kiev Majorate, headmaster of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, and I'd like to draw attention to that absolutely eerie irresponsibility, the crime that actually took place last Saturday, when the newly built so-called "Cleep City," this result of his sick imagination, was launched by tens of thousands of Chinese and guests of the capital, and in fact put people in grave danger. And because they put people on a city that wasn't in use. Think about it! Bridges are not in use. What, by the way, is the Video Clicker himself confessed when his activist filmed the video when he was discovered. He says, "Yes, he's not in use. But we consulted with engineers, someone else, and we were told it was okay. You can let people in." But what began to happen? The glass has begun to shake because the stolen money and the other materials are used, the bridge shakes, and the coating spreads. In fact, people were allowed to go to the construction site. This is actually a direct, direct violation of the peremptory norm of part eight of article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. And by the way, there's a fine -- over 1.7 million dollars. Who's gonna pay this fine, city budget? Vitaly Klitschko probably won't pay that fine directly from his pocket. But besides that, there's a lot of other violations. The land under this construction was not officially taken away, imagine. According to the master plan, the area of this building is green, and no bridges can be built there at all. According to the Ukrainian Construction Act, the development of a construction project in such a place should take place solely as a result of an architectural competition that has not actually taken place. What's more, they're trying to correct the project right now and they're trying to build an additional mall next to that bridge that looks like a rope road. And let's keep building this area right over here. And, by the way, the completely historical slopes of Dniper. And this is also happening in a breach of legislation. So today, from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, my questions were read from the Presidium. The demand, first, for the Holdbudinspection, to prohibit the operation of this bridge until it is officially put into service. Now, you see the cassualism, the tautology? That is, DABI must prohibit exploitation, even though it is not even in use. My call to the Ministry, to the Ministry of Culture to take all measures and stop this destruction of the historic Dnieper slopes. Today I also sent a call to the NABU and the National Police because we have criminal crimes here — abuse of power or service; arbitrary construction of buildings and buildings on a self-occupied land area; illegal search of objects of archaeological heritage; destruction, destruction or damage of cultural heritage objects; purposeless use of budgetary resources; execution of budget expenditure or loan from the budget without established budgetary assignments or exceeding them. By the way, the bridge budget has spread twice. Please add, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u166	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u167	By the way, the bridge's budget has spread twice during the construction process, and there's $10 million more than it's offered to build this city in the same way, in fact, a Swiss firm that offered to build the same city as Clicko now did. So we have a lot of criminal offenses. I think the law enforcement authorities have to investigate this. And I think that for such a scoundrel, for such irresponsibility because of your empty pierra and the theft of money, the Caller has to be retired. This Supreme Council must immediately vote in favour of the city’s head of the city of Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u168	Thank you. I invite you to Victor Krivenk's word. It's going to be six minutes. He was given the word of a colleague. And I just want to consult you. In fact, we have two more who sign up for the performance. And there are three colleagues who haven't been able to sign up, but we have time, four even. We have a chance. Five. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u169	Two times 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u170	Two times 30 seconds won't happen. It'll be 10 seconds. Because those who have six minutes, I'm only going to give them 10 seconds. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u171	Okay, okay. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Ukrainians! You've seen this week and before this show called the Prime Minister's resignation. The absolute farce when Vladimir Borisovich Groysman clearly understood that what he wrote, even if it was satisfied with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, did not lead to anything. There is no way to create a new coalition, to submit a new prime minister, and, in fact, he and the ministers would continue to rule the country, only they would no longer be responsible. And what they're distracting me from, I often repeat, as I did in Ancient Greece, Alkiyad, the ruler who cut off his dog's tail. And everyone was discussing, not bad things in the state, but the tail of Alkiyada’s dog. That's how it was. It's not about subsidies in Minagroprom that get two oligarchic structures, instead of handing out to farmers and creating real production in every village, so that there's a host in the village, not renting life there. There is no discussion of the State because the forests are still being cut off. The Prime Minister, instead of looking at a carved farce here yesterday, because he had arranged with the factions that there would be no voices to go to the Plainland, to see what the amber was going to do there, to go to the Zitomirsk, to see how in the northern regions the forests that the roads in the woods were paved. He's supposed to be dealing with the Dergeonandras, where our genealogies go, and why the state's Crushing can't get territory for development, and private companies can. He should have seen what was going on in the Dergeokadastre, what was going on in the DABI, just as Mr. Lewchenko was addressing them. And that's why it was a disgraceful farce, and I'm sure there's going to be an appropriate assessment in these elections. I would like to thank all the fellow national MPs who supported yesterday without exaggerating the historic bill on State recognition and support for Plastics. As the head of the interfractional association of Plastics in Parliament, which has more than 50 national deputies, as the father of children in Plastics, as well. I've become a platter myself, and I'll say that if the state had supported Plastic since the 91st year, there would have been no occupation of Crimea and there would have been no war in the East. I'll tell you that one of Israel's first decisions in 47 was legislation on their Scout organization, which now receives about $150 million a year from the central budget and the local budgets, the mecenati. And in America, this bill has been in force since 1916, and they have 3 million scouts. We have 12,000 scouts, our canvasses, including 9,000 in Ukraine, and we certainly need to increase that. Thank you very much to the Head of the Supreme Council, who put it to the vote. And once again, I will say that to everyone, without exception, who voted. It's a non-partisan activity. I urge my parents to take their children to plastic. I call on Ukrainian patriots to become educators. It is vital that we restore it. Finally. I'd like to address the new president. You need to understand why, for example, there is no "Russian peace" in Ternopolis. There's no NATO, there's no nuclear weapons, there's Ukrainian cultural space. You have to understand the pragmatic role of Ukrainian. Like many intelligent, educated Russian - speaking people after I talked to them or saw my speeches, they switched to Ukrainian. Because they clearly realize that language is essential to the protection of the state and the fundamentals that attack other states that are its enemies. Because language is the basis of national culture. National culture is the basis of the desire to have a state of its own. When it breaks down, you become a cosmopolitan, it's the same as where you live in most cases, and it's easy to go out where you do better work, where you do better security, where you do better laws, you do better education for your children. And he no longer fights for his Fatherland, and it is easier for him to leave because he does not have this irrational relationship. Or he becomes the bearer of another language of the neighbor country, becomes the bearer of its culture, and becomes a customer of that state or loyal to it. And you have to understand why Russia banned Ukrainian 64 times. Why did they make the English a follower? When a peasant, you know that three days could only be spent in cities, and the villagers were exposed by what they were saying in Ukrainian. This was a criminal article in the Soviet Union by the age of sixty. And they switched to Russian because it was impeccable to speak English, and it was planted as much as possible. During more than 350 years, 64 times were officially suppressed. What, there was nothing to do? Catherine's Empress or Putin's now? Because they understood that their country would come after the language, their state would come after the church because it was cultural identity that created the Ukrainian. And it is very important for us to explain to the Russian-speaking Ukrainian patriots the pragmatic role of the Ukrainian language. And when your partner claims that it turns out to be necessary to repeal the Language Act, of course, it should not have been adopted during the electoral period, and we talked about it over and over again as the head of the interfractional language union. As co-author, along with another motorist, Paul Kishkar, with Hanna Hopko, and other colleagues of the Ukrainian Language Act on Radio, I want to say that it is unacceptable to reduce quotas that have created hundreds of beautiful Ukrainian groups. So, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, I urge you to stop yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u172	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u173	And give the principle an estimate. If you've already said what I'm greeting, the country of Russia is an aggressor that we have a war going on, protect the Ukrainian language, it will protect our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u174	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u175	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, I certainly agree with the thoughts that have been heard in this Hall today that, if it has been so established that the Ukrainian government has not resigned but has remained in service, this period, until the formation of a new government, must be used as effectively as possible to fulfill those obligations to the people, to the communities that the government has to carry out. The Supreme Council, I believe, will also accept all the necessary bills. But I would like to remind you that during the past week, two large meetings took place in Kiev under the Cabinet of Ministers. The first meeting was attended by leaders of newly formed united territorial communities, village heads, village elders from all over Ukraine. And they demand that the government today fulfil the commitments that have been made under the so-called Regional Development Fund programme and, more simply, support the development of the territories of the territorial communities of our state as part of the decentralization reform. I would like to remind you that many of the objects that are primarily social objects: schools, kindergartens, ambulances -- they have to be built on the basis of co-financing. And part of that is the local budgets, part of the government budgets. So local budgets often did what they took: they counted the funds. That's why I'm talking to the government today. Please fulfill your part of the obligation. Because, for example, I have had a school in Corosten for the fourth year undergraduate, with very little to do. So now we need to focus and finish what we promised. And another meeting. Once again, representatives of so - called Chernobyl public organizations took the lead. And the subject that we have talked about and which is now completely incomplete also needs special attention from the government. I insist once again that it be accepted, either, a minimum state program that will focus on all the problems that have accumulated over the past few decades, and this is not paying citizens in many ways and for housing that is not implemented, it is the healing and treatment of oncological children who have the status of suffering from an accident at CHAES, the raising of wages and pensions to liquidators, and so on. So all of these things just have to be incorporated into the new government program, write down the debt that's accumulated over the years. Of course, the numbers are extremely large, but this is a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u176	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u177	But this is not a matter of silence, for it is a duty of the State to the people, to the cannibals, and it simply needs to be resolved systematically. I very much expect that both the Ukrainian government and the Supreme Council of the next call, and the new government will continue to work towards the implementation of social programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u178	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka. Then there's Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, dear presiding officer! Yuri Derevyanco, Will Party, 87th Majority District. Yesterday a 23-year-old resident of Mrs. Maria died in the village of Moshkovice in the Kalu district because an ambulance was not there. She did not make it there because the opportunity was ruined. and the road was destroyed, and a concrete shipment was destroyed, which could be followed by an ambulance. That's the result of a disaster that's been emerging for a week now, a whole month in Western Ukraine is the region of Ivano-Frankiv, the region of Zakarpat, part of the region of Lviv. I've been talking to the government for a month now, to Groysman with questions, asking him to immediately eliminate the consequences where we already have this result. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, two people were killed as a result of a natural disaster, and now a person is killed because they have not eliminated the opportunity to reach people on time. I'm asking you to take a picture of another bridge on the board right now. This is a city between the village of Pnow and the village of Battle. This bridge, in order for it not to collapse, had to spend 300 to 500 thousand dollars, now to restore this city, in order to restore the journey to the Battle village, where it lives more than five. Six thousand people, need more than five or six million dollars. This bush is completely cut off from the maternity home, from the children’s district hospital, from the usual district hospital. And that's the result. It's been a month, it's been May 1-2. So far, nothing has been done. The village of Bytków, Gwizd, Mladków, Pnów, Pasične nadwiernian district, Soltvin village, Monastirkani, Old Bogorodčany village, Markova, Sajva, Dzwinjac, Rosilna, Starunya, Hmelovka, Babče, Glibivka village, also the Bogodčany region. The most affected were the populated areas that are very close to the mountains, which are practically mountainous populated areas, because forests are being cut off ungodlyly, because any rains that are coming today, they can't stop because there are no trees, and more than five thousand households are completely flooded and submerged. Until now, the government's assistance is zero. They say it's a regional element, it's a regional level of disaster. But 5 million dollars of the district budget is what's in the reserve fund. And for just one Supernatural region, it takes 30 million dollars, and for the entire region of Ivano-Frankiv, it takes about 300 million dollars. So, Mr. Cuban Minister of Economics Vice-Prime Minister, Mr. Groissman, I immediately ask you to get involved in preventing people from dying so that they can quickly help these people, so that they can immediately begin to eliminate the consequences of the disaster and help the people who have suffered. And I'm asking you to stop. Please, 30 seconds, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u180	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u181	And I ask you to stop your position in district weeks so as not to hold a government meeting. Because it is up to the government to determine whether these people will have help or not. You don't run a government for a week, the 25th number of ODA sent you all the necessary references, within three days you had to respond as a government and give proper orders to eliminate the element, but you're playing politics. You're talking about responsibility, you're taking a completely irresponsible position with respect to the Ukrainians, in relation to your citizens who have suffered from natural disasters today. So I ask you to immediately engage and demonstrate this responsibility by your actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u182	I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u183	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Traditionally, on Friday, I am trying to use a speech from the highest court of Parliament in order to contact the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities, about the problems that the electorate is facing me on my election visit to my constituency. And the next time I have to look at the problem of the unsatisfactory state of the road within my district. Last time, I applied to the district government’s management, requiring immediate action to repair local roads. Today, I turn to you and ask you to make my statement in the form of an official MP's address to the head of Novak Ukraine on the urgent beginning of the repair of the roads of state importance. I want to point out that, just as a month ago, when I had raised the question of the third time that road repairs were needed, no road repairs had begun on the Krivopil Pass, no repairs had begun on the R62 road within the village of Usterika, no road repairs had begun within a mile and a half of the village of Tudev, no repairs had begun in the village of Kuta, no repairs had begun. Unfortunately, I'm forced to say that no repairs to the Snitter Road have begun. That's when the month of May ends, and what's the main thing is that the costs, and I want to point out that I've been looking over 20 times at the Kravutodora, to solve these problems in the state budget there are. I would like to point out that in January-month, the relevant decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which provides for the necessary funding to solve road problems within the areas of the Supreme, Kosovo and Sveten region, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. But the fact that roads did not begin to repair is a crippling irresponsibility. I'm talking about the roads of state importance, this is the strong irresponsibility of the leadership of Ukraine, and this is the strong irresponsibility of driving in the Ivano-Frankow region. That is why I am addressing both the leadership of Ukraine and the management of road services in the area as soon as possible to repair the roads of state importance within the area of the Upper East, and this is the Krivopolski Preval, the village of Usteriki, to begin repairing the road in the village of Tudev (one and a half kilometers), which is in the village of Kuta, and to begin repairs immediately. Sni-Tazov. I hope that my next parliamentary address will not be lost this time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u184	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u185	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, the war continues. The war continues and is a real war, a war that includes fiscal relations and the payment of land taxes by the Ministry of Defence. To our surprise, the planned land tax expenses do not include all the real expenses that are in the Ministry of Defence in specific military units, precisely under this article. I think that Kabin will have to intervene immediately, to figure out the amount of land tax that has to be paid by each military unit to anticipate, allocate, and repay the additional debts that we have before the unified territorial communities, in front of cities and district and district councils on land tax payments. It's about talking about bringing us closer to NATO. We often talk about this, we forget only that the real transition to NATO is defined by the statutes as a specific order of action and the interaction of military personnel, including during hostilities. So what you're told from the TV screens is that we're getting closer to NATO, we're moving to the J-structure in the administration -- it's all a myth that's not confirmed at all. On the contrary, there's a whole series of structural units in the Mini-Defense and the US, which contradict the J-Structure logic. So the transition is going to take place here in this Parliament and it's called the "new edition of the laws of Ukraine that define the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces" which are actually used by all the military formations of our state. In addition, the second part of my speech is to refer to the Kiev City Council for the celebration of the century of Waldorf pedagogics. I had the privilege of associating with the Waldorf Association literally two hours ago. There is no single Waldorf school in Kiev, all of them either mixed up, two of them, or some private small groups, probably called Waldorf pedagogics. And the city doesn't respond to the fact that this is the direction in secondary education and in preschool education, and these people, and this is the kind of teaching that generates a very different kind of content. Why is it ignored? I think it's against the administrative system that's in education administrations, so that's confirmation. Our proposal is to transfer the Greenchenko University to the University of Titina, 17 to the University of the U.S. Center of Waldorf Pedagogics.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u186	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u187	Thank you, Madam Chairman. In fact, this 3.5 - year facility is not used by a special rector; it is neglected; it will soon be inhabited by bumblebees and spread out on friendly occasions. The second initiative. This is to transfer the third sector of semi-detached premises to Brezniakovsky, 6a to school No. 195, where there is a whole unit of Waldorf pedagogics. We need these facilities in order to accommodate the primary school.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u188	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u189	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainians! On the other hand, from this highest Ukrainian rostrum of the Ukrainian Parliament, I am addressing the government, and I am addressing Ukraine with the most pressing problem that exists today in the Carpathian region, namely Putilščina, Vidiničina, Strážinetski district, Kosovstina, Vrhovvinščina. Dear colleagues, how long can we talk about taking care of people? Are the hundreds of questions that I have written and addressed to the highway and other services not worthy of attention at all? And I'm not saying that I didn't get an answer for half of them at all. We're talking about road construction, we're talking about infrastructure development, we're talking about tourism development, but the visa is there now. I'm not saying that I'm about 150, 150 MPs have been written about the discovery of once-acting entry points on the state border of Ulma-Russia and Whispert in the region of Putil. Because we don't understand that this is exactly the kind of cash flow that the locals could use. This is the development of tourism there, this is the development of trade there. In fact, small businesses would break down and invest themselves, invest in the development of the same infrastructure. But somehow they don't want to hear us. And this year, it's a really strange story. Because if several tens of millions were allocated to the capital repair of R-62 and T-2601 Chernivci-Vaskovitsa-Vysznica-Patila-KPT-Russia roads last year. So this year's work didn't even start at all, and the tender procedures aren't even finished. Is that not the price of Ukraine before the new leadership of the State, which may perhaps hold this money to show that the new authorities are already doing good for people? Let's not wait for autumn, let's not wait for rain and frost, fix the roads already. The summer season is coming, people will continue to work in the fields. Let people live a normal life. I call upon the officials of Ukraine to take decisive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u190	Thank you. And the last performance is the national deputy, Yegor Sobolev. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u191	I want to report today on the initiative that we and the public organizations, including the famous Helsinki Society, launched six months ago. This was following the death of Catherine Gandzück. And we were all worried about what to do, how to protect ourselves from the attacks, the beatings, the killings, and the mutilations of those concerned people who are trying to protect the law themselves. We then created the "Protection" initiative, whose idea is to come and help these people before anything happens to them. That if there's John the Russians in the Odessa region and there's pressure from people he won't allow to destroy nature, here, with the parliamentary rostrum, with the MPs, with the efforts of other public activists to show potential attackers that he's not alone. There are 116 defenses online today. I am happy that none of them happened in six months. And I want to say that we want to complete this initiative at all after the appointment of an independent professional attorney general and the same minister of internal affairs. In fact, bandits do not attack people alone. Bandits are hired by corrupters, and bandits are hired by people whose principles are inconsequential by public activists. And every gangster knows that if he's not covered by the chief of police, the local prosecutor and so on, and so on, well, he'll be caught in two hours. No one will commit such crimes if he realizes that he will be responsible by law. In order for the law to protect people, so that people are not afraid to show their will, the position needed by these two officials is that of an independent, unprofitable general prosecutor and the same minister of the interior. I asked the newly elected President Vladimir Zelensky to bring the application to the Supreme Council for the release of Attorney General Yuri Lucenk. You know we're here to take the initiative in expressing our mistrust to the Attorney General. But this requires the signatures of 150 national deputies, today there are only 63. And in the hands of the President, we can help take and release Yuri Lucenk without waiting for anything else. This will be a good step to protect people and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-31-m0.u192	Thank you. We finished our discussion at the Miscellaneous, and we finished our work today at our morning session. The next meeting will take place on June 4 at 10 a.m. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council I declare closed.
