ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u2	Are you ready for your registration? Please take up jobs. So please register, please include registration. [[10:02:47]] 341 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that yesterday the Ukrainian delegation has actually completed its work at the 140th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, this is the largest international forum in the world. A delegation of 163 countries led by 60 heads of parliaments, speakers from different countries, participated in the 140th Assembly. In general, more than 2,000 200 members of parliaments around the world participated in the forum. For the first time, the Ukrainian delegation proposed its Resolution on the Inadmissibility of Recruitment as a means of undermining peace and human rights. The delegation worked very intensively with the participants in the forum for its approval. And I'm sure she'll be accepted tomorrow. I, my colleagues, would like to thank all the members of the delegation: and Boris Tarasyuk, Oleni Shkrum, Oleni Sotnik, Leonid Hamtsu, for taking part in this forum. And I want to say that from the High Court of the Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, I spoke about the crimes of the Russian occupying forces in the occupied areas of Crimea and Donbas, and I turned to the Russian delegation that was present in the Hall, and personally to the Head of the State Word, calling on them to withdraw their occupying forces from the territory of Ukraine and stop killing Ukrainian citizens. And I am convinced that this is another victory of Ukraine on the diplomatic front. I would also like to report that information has been circulated for days, that the court's decision has been taken to make a distinction between what is said to be Ukrainian law, which refers to the incorporation of the name of the Ukrainian churches. I would like to point out that the decision of the District Court is not final, it will be accused by me, by law, in an appeal facility, and if necessary, in a cassational one. So the law is valid, and the parishes of the Moscow Patriarchate should be legally and honestly called the "Russian Orthodox Church in Ukraine" and should not hide under the name of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church. The Ukrainian Orthodox Church in Ukraine is one. Ukrainians, friends, do not believe the Kremlin's manipulations, the rematch will not pass, the law remains in force, and the movement of communities into the Ukrainian Orthodox Church continues actively. I also want to remind you that today, Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to perform from factions. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to record the group and factions statements now, please. By the way, I would also like to thank Mrs. Zarzorko, who participated from the Radical Party in the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, for her active work. Most of our delegates are elected to the governing bodies of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly. So, from the People's Front to the word, the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, the world society has acknowledged that the March 31st vote went uninterrupted. Honest elections are a privilege that not all post-Radians can enjoy. But Ukrainians have consistently advocated the right to free choice, and this is why the courts have fought, and this is why the fight on the front is going on. Russia went to war in Ukraine to deprive us of the opportunity to choose for ourselves. But unlike Russia in Ukraine, we have a real nation, we have a candidate contest, we have an idea contest, we have a program. After the Dignity Revolution, we've secured the fourth democratic will. I want to mark separately the leading role of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in ensuring the rule of law and order during the electoral process, including the great personal merit of Minister Arsen Awakov. We stand for European values and move towards a free world, we must continue the changes that were initiated in 2014 by the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. Our goal is a state with the highest standards of freedom, security and justice. In order to implement the reforms, it is important that the newly elected President has absolute legitimacy, a president recognized by the Ukrainian people, respected by the army, respects the world. Regardless of the outcome of the election of the President of Ukraine, the position of the People's Front is unchanged: we will never accept a distortion of entry into the EU and NATO from the national status of the Ukrainian language. The People's Front will not accept capital treaties with Putin, including in the form of federalization, the refusal of Ukraine from Crimea or amnesty for terrorists. The final decision on any peace agreements with Russia will be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and only, this is a requirement of the Constitution. No president will dictate his will to the Ukrainian Parliament. The People's Front will never accept the usurpation of power by one person. These are our constant red lines for many years that we won't let anyone cross. Remember, the real war against Ukraine is going on, the concentration of Russian troops on our border remains high, the enemy is waiting for us to destabilise. The People's Front won't let that happen and will fight for Ukraine for total victory. That is why we demand that candidates and political powers be held accountable and stately positions. We require both candidates for serious and meaningful discussion, do not confuse the election of the President of the State with entertainment and competition in the market. We also refer to fellow MPs: your job here in parliament, and the parliamentary election campaign has not yet begun. So go back and join the work, and do not be distracted by populism. In these days, Parliament is considering an important language bill that meets the standards and standards that have been adopted in democratic countries. This law is extremely important in the face of hybrid aggression. Protecting and approving Ukrainian is a priority issue of national security. You can continue, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u4	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u5	The People's Front clearly supports the adoption of the State Language Protection Act and calls upon colleagues from other factions to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u6	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Novinsky is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u7	Honorable Ukrainians, respected colleagues, the fact that the Supreme Council today stubbornly continues its consideration of discrimination based on its essence of language law shows that supporters of Peter Prashenko did not understand why only 16 percent of Ukrainians supported the political course of the current president in the elections on March 31st. Elections have become a judgment of a system by which politicians, without the ability and courage to end war and deal with the crisis in the economy, the social sphere, tolerate corruption, lawlessness, try to turn the debate into a humanitarian issue. Language, church, history is all just the kind of thing that Peter Poroshenko covers up his own inaction and corruption of his environment. It is easier to talk about the European future than to answer about the poor modern world, to celebrate with Tomos and for some time to forget about broken roads, stopped factories, and the poverty of Ukrainians. As a result, this policy has suffered a complete fiasco, and today only a miracle can save Peter Prashenko in the second round. But we note that the walls of Parliament today continue to imitate violent political activity rather than solve acute problems. All these political games would be possible if the issues raised in the Supreme Council did not split society. And the language law that is being considered today, and the attempt to intervene in church life, and to impose on citizens the concept of history, all of this leads to the division of society into right and wrong. The first round of elections became a real judgment. Stop experimenting in the humanitarian field, get better at real work and getting countries out of the crisis. countries in crisis. The Opposition Block faction has registered a number of draft laws and regulations that need immediate consideration because they contain extremely important points in terms of the functioning of the economy and the social sphere. Instead, all these bills have been placed in a long box, and they could have a significant, positive impact on the situation in the country. We believe that we need to adopt the Electoral Code in a second reading so that the parliamentary elections of the fall of this year will take place on a new and more transparent basis. The adoption of legislation to regulate public services tariffs is essential. It is also necessary to ensure the adoption of laws that underpin Ukraine’s commitments under the Minsk Accords. It is these issues, not the language law that has actually paralyzed the work of the Supreme Council for a few weeks now, that is most relevant to most of our voters. That's why, on behalf of the Opposition Block faction, I urge you to stop looking at language law and go back to the issues that really concern society, not those.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u8	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u9	the election headquarters of the candidate of the Presidents of Petra Prašenka. Today we have to show that we have to take care of the people, our voters, or our bankrupt politicians, who want to stay in the presidential chair by all means, including by means of the division of society by language and religion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u10	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, Arthur Gerasimov, head of the faction, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! On April 7, the CTC released the final results of the President’s first round of elections. First of all, I want to thank the citizens who voted for Peter Prashenko and his clear plan to turn Ukraine into a rich and strong European state. A special thanks to the Ukrainian soldiers. It is your daily protection that guarantees the strengthening of the democratic freedoms of Ukrainians in their own independent state. All Western observers and international institutions recognized the high level of transparency and honesty of citizens. The preparations and elections were welcomed by observers from the OSCE, PARJE, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the ambassadors of the Great Seven and dozens of authoritative Western politicians and experts. I would like to remind you that President Peter Poroshenko is the main guarantor of this year’s transparent elections. Do you remember how during the past year our opponents intimidated society, saying that these elections would be largely falsified? But the real assessment of independent international experts has led to a reverse: the first round of elections has become either the most democratic in our time of independence. This is an illustration for Ukrainians, how a picture on TV can be fundamentally different from reality. There's a second tour ahead. This is no longer a name, but a further way of developing Ukraine is defined. Look at the euphoria of Russian propagandists and Kremlin politicians. They all dream of a weak President of Ukraine to weaken our country, both in the international arena and in the political and economic plans within the country. Yesterday the Ukrainian public was surprised by the refusal of candidate Vladimir Zelensky to pass drug tests on international anti - doping organizations. Let me remind you, it was Mr. Zelensky's initiative to get the candidates to pass the drug test. But as experience has shown, it is his usual behavior: he makes loud statements, sets firm requirements that he himself does not even intend to fulfill. In other words, a person lives in a virtual world of television pictures. Require independent expertise and instead conduct a theatricalized blood supply in the lab of a friend where blood selection is performed by an actor of his own series. It seems that even his constituents find it difficult to explain the logic of such behavior. The rejection of testing in organizations with a worldwide reputation gives rise to even more suspicion. Imagine the scale of the threat to Ukraine if a person with a drug addiction is responsible for the diplomatic front, national security and defence during the war. Similar inconsistencies and illogicalness from the Greens candidate are also evident in the debates required by nearly 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens. So society has to get answers to the key questions essentially, but Vladimir Alexanderovich is looking for any reason not to go to direct open debate. Peter Poshenko simply replied, "The stadium is so the stadium." And logically, the date of the Olympics debate could be April 14th, the last weekend before the second round's vote. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u12	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u13	Official debates according to current legislation are scheduled to take place on April 19th and only in a social language study. Peter Poshenko is ready for the debate and April 14th in the stadium, and April 19th in a social-language course. The only question remains whether Vladimir Zelensky himself is willing to meet his own requirements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u14	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. First of all, I want to thank all of our voters, more than a million Ukrainians, who voted in the last presidential election for my candidacy. Dear people, dear Ukrainians, dear fellows, thank you! We won't let you down, and you can trust us. The fight is not over. As Winston Churchill, the British prime minister, said: It is optimistic to move from defeat to defeat; if you do not taste defeat, you will never know what victory is. Our victories, Ukrainians, ahead. But winning isn't about making fun of you, so you can be bullied or robbed, as is done today. We're going to victory in order to put order in the country, that's the key thing we need today. Look what the presidential election turned into today, the circus. The candidates who claim to run a 45 million-dollar country, what do they compete for? Not by programs, not by ideas, not by development, and they're competing with the analysis of who has the analysis. You tell me, what difference does it make to people who don't have a job without a salary that doesn't have children who don't have any wages that empty refrigerators that stand in the markets can't make 3 cents, what difference does it make what analysis they have? They want the President, the power of one -- a strong economy, a strong country, jobs, decent wages, a decent standard of living. What do they get instead? Circus, propaganda. And then we wonder why young people go abroad, why we live like this, why people don't see the perspective. Because these candidates have been falsified, because these are the political pygmies who can only compete through analysis. That's why neither I nor our team support any of the candidates, none of those who are today, we don't support. We offer an alternative: the way the country develops: economic recovery, orderliness in the country, order in power, discipline, responsibility to citizens. The entire bill package has been registered by our team to provide economic development, increase the welfare of Ukrainians, increase wages, restore production, restore respect for people of work. We demand the parliamentary majority, from the President of anyone who is not President, we will not let him rest on the laurels, we will not let him doze, we will not let him rob the Ukrainians and we will severely control an authority that is not in the presidential office or in the parliamentary majority. Our team requires the adoption of laws in the first place, the increase in wages, the setting of tariffs to stop robbing people. The real energy dependency of the country, the modernization, the restoration of production, the power to restore the country through economic development. Strong diplomacy, a strong army, and a strong Ukrainian people, not the pornography that is being steamed and told to people today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u16	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u17	This is not our future, let them take this future for themselves. Ukrainians need a different future: a strong country, a strong economy, the well-being of every Ukrainian family, wages and decent work for every Ukrainian is the future I propose, and our team. And we'll do it, the fight continues, our new victories ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u18	Thank you. And on occasion, I would like to say hello to Koscheva with the birth of her daughter. Congratulations on her success and happiness. [[Applause]] From Self-Help, Oleg Berezuk, please head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u19	What do you think of the words? The word is a force that raises people, people, nations to fight and defend their interests. And the word is a splinter, the word in the mouth of the Pharisees is a lie that leads to destruction. But the power of the Ukrainian nation and the power of the Ukrainian people is that it distinguishes those words. And the results of the first round of elections are the evaluation of the pharisaic government, which by beautiful holy words masks its inaction and, more specifically, criminal activity in relation to the Ukrainian person. And people saw it. What's more, they didn't just see them make the most negative assessment of the government, saying "yes." And what started? The musculoskeletal urchin began, panicking, and cheating. Ready to fall on your knees. Swear to break each other's foreheads again, no, for the last time, give it another one. I believe in the power of the Ukrainian people. He will do his free will, which will prevail. I'm convinced. But while this Pharisee is being created, absolute lawlessness is spreading throughout the country. Thousands of people have been without electricity and gas for months because of monopolies, monopolies of gas and electricity, and the energy that is covered up by who is the highest official figure of the state. It's bullying people. Moreover, the country is persecuting those who are fighting for the resources of their own communities, for their territory, for their land. Does anyone stand up for these people, any law enforcement agency? No, it doesn't. This is also done in the Black Sea Odessa region, when the chief physician took the lead in protecting his hospital in order to protect high - quality and honest tenders. This is done in the Kamyanka-Buzsky district of Lviv, which is done in Frankish in Colomia, and people are persecuted for the truth and the struggle for their own. What can we do with you apart from words? We just need to adopt two laws that we should have passed a long time ago. The Ukrainian Presidential Act, which clearly states what this all-powerful man can do, who is now above the law, outside the law, and what he can do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u20	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u21	and what responsibilities this person has beyond his name, including impeachment. And the second law, it's about deputies, it's open lists for people to have a chance to have those who don't say a word, and in their affairs and loyalty, they're guarding a person in the state of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u22	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u23	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, on behalf of the Yulia Timoshenko team, I would like to express my gratitude to the 2.5 million Ukrainian citizens who voted in favour of Yulia Timoshenko on March 31st and supported the new course of Ukraine, which Julia Timoshenko put forward during her election campaign. Of course, these voices have not become enough to win, but this is a very good basis for continuing the fight in the name of Ukraine and for proving that we are capable of making the changes that our nation today needs. And I would like to say very clearly, on behalf of the "Fatherland" faction, that Ukraine's new course was not a election slogan, it's a very serious document that we're going to have to put into practice in this Parliament and in the next Parliament after the parliamentary elections. At the same time today is a very difficult time for Ukraine because the election of the President on March 31st demonstrated that less than 50 per cent of Ukrainian citizens voted for the two candidates on the second round. Most Ukrainians are against both candidates. And this is the sum total of these choices. So we will certainly need to go through this very difficult path, understanding all the challenges facing our nation today. And, of course, about both candidates today, I want to say one thing. Stop measuring, stop doing this, and turn the election into a farce. Because the war in the east is going on because the Ukrainian people were poor and still remained. Because Ukraine does not solve the problems that need to be solved now, and instead, the solution to the urgent problems is replaced by analysis. Here's the main summary that we see today. And that's because, given that in the most difficult and dramatic times, the foundation and consolidation for the Ukrainian state of affairs have always remained Parliament, I would like to go to the entire Supreme Council. We need to take a number of legislative initiatives in this inter-election period before the second round, which requires the adoption of the Fatherland faction. First of all, it is the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, which should clearly establish, strengthen parliamentary control and clearly establish mechanisms for bringing the President to justice. This is the President's Law on impeachment, which we have to approve, and every President has to understand that he can be held accountable if he commits crimes. This is the Law on a Proportionate Electoral System with open lists, we need to clean up a corrupt majority. Of course, the Ukrainian Parliament should.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u24	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u25	The Ukrainian Parliament must adopt a key law, removing the inviolability of all: the President, the judges and the Ukrainian national deputies. All must be free and equal before the law. This is what the "Paternity" faction requires. And we think that it is this Parliament that is bound to adopt these laws and eventually to put all the officials, regardless of whether it's an MP or a President, on a level of condition, just as the Ukrainian people live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u26	Thank you. From the Rebirth faction, Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u27	Thank you, Your Honor Andrew Volodymyrovich. Indeed, the results of the elections show that the people of Ukraine are not what they do not trust, but are disappointed in both the authorities and all the authorities who now rule the country. 84 percent of mistrust is an extremely high indicator, and everyone who is running the country today should think about what they've been led to in five years, that this level of mistrust of people. What can be said, since it is difficult to speak to you, you still do not hear. It might be suggested that if you say that you've heard people say what they want, take these two weeks to stop this simulation of the activity that's been going on for the last 3-4 years, and take a few concrete steps to make people believe that you really want to change something. First. There's a bill to cancel these robbery tariffs. Put it down and let's vote. You don't have to do demagogies here and delay the Council's inaction for a month, like you just did before the elections. And we're going to conduct this decision and show people that you really want to change something. Public debt for utilities is already 70 billion, has increased by 30 billion dollars in recent months, and will be over 120-140 billion dollars by the end of the year. Don't you understand what this is about?Oh, my God! If you really want to show that you're changing something, let's listen to every minister they've done in three months. If it doesn't work, and we all think he's playing and he doesn't have any professional skills, here in the hall we can release most of this government in a week and assign professional people. If you really want to make changes, put to the vote laws on the President's impeachment, on the interim commission of inquiry, on the lifting of immunity from the President, from the deputies, from all the officials in Ukraine who are involved in this, on the complete re-launching of the law enforcement system. These would be effective actions in these two weeks to make people believe that you really want to change things. And I can continue this list of at least 10 more points that would be aimed at restoring industry, transport, energy. These would be actions that would make people feel that you think something about them. And today you're doing what you're doing, you're doing with TV screens, you're collecting sociologists, you're tying people up with the idea that there's only two candidates, and now you're making us pick who you don't understand. So you don't have to flip and tell me you're changing things, but over the next five years. You want to change -- come in here and bring in a new agenda, and in two weeks, show your work, the President, the ruling coalition. And then people may still believe you. Until then, we don't believe it, because you're imitating Parliament's work right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u28	Thank you. So statements from factions and groups are completed. I want to report that there are two announcements in the Presidium, and I will read them both. First. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the 8th Interfractional Time Union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Stotnik Olen Sergiyevna, was elected head of this association. The interfractional union included 12 national deputies from different factions. And the next. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "For the next President of Ukraine, Zelensky W.O.".. Kupria Vitali Mikolaiovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, was elected leader of this association. Sadly, though, no other deputy is listed. And I'm going to Vitalia Mikolaiovich: I'm going to report, if there are any other deputies besides you, to report the list to the Apparatus so that we can publicly announce who's joining the interfractional union except for Mr. Kupri. Thank you, colleagues. And I remind you, we're continuing our consideration of the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (5670-d). Two letters came to the fore, one from the German national deputy with a list of the rights on which he insists, and the other from the Papiev national deputy. We're going to announce these adjustments as we get there, because we call each revision and we're going to give you the right opportunity to stand still, but with the general call not to delay the process. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. And I want to remind you that we ended up on line 1218. And I invite you to the words of the national deputy of Germany on the 1,218th right. Do you insist? No, it doesn't. 1219. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 1220. Who? 19th. Please, 19th Boyko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u29	Honorable Fellows, Amendment 1219: It is proposed to exclude part two of article 45. Please put to the vote. This is an exception to "The Ukrainian Language Level Exam is organized and conducted by the National Commission of Public Language Standards." I would like to remind you that according to the part of the first article of the Education Act 64, the central executive body that deals adequately with education is the Ministry of Education and Science for today. It's a function tautology. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Okay. I ask now to be determined by the amendment made by the honourable Lady Boyko. [[10:35:56]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. Next, we return to the German National Deputy, please. 1221 amendment, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u31	Mrs. Irina, I'm grateful for your relative 221 corrections. I want to say and ask the rapporteur for this bill. Please tell me, where is the country in which there is a parallel to conducting a national language examination? Please tell me, which country?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u32	Please respond to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u33	The language exams are held in all countries where people study at schools, study at universities, love their mother tongue, and want to study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u34	Thank you. I'd like to make a determination for 1,221 amendments, please. [[10:37:12]] For-27 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1223, the People's Deputy Papiev. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u36	My colleagues, I would like to point out that this amendment was taken into account by the committee, this is an amendment to Mrs. Podowak. Please. But it requires Papia's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! You can see that again in the consideration of the law, which is already very simple among people: it's a law banning Russian language and the language of national minorities. With regard to this amendment, I propose that Amendment 1223 be put on confirmation. And in addition, I want to emphasize and draw the attention of our citizens to the following fact. Today, 13 hours in European time in Strasbourg, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will hold a round table where the communities of Ukrainian national minorities, including the Romanian Union of Ukrainians, will be gathered, where the Ukrainian community will be clearly and clearly shown to the European institutions that it is a law that violates the Constitution of Ukraine, which violates the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens to the right to use their own language. I'm asking you to submit this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u38	Please give the amendment a word? 1223. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Dear Mr. Papiev, the author wants to speak on it. Then. I heard you very well. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u39	Please place this amendment on full validation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u40	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear friends, I remind you once again that this is the Ukrainian Language Protection Act in a country called Ukraine, in a country of the Ukrainian people. In no way does the Law humiliate other nations or other languages. Anyone who opposes this law opposes every Ukrainian who lives in our country. The correction itself is indeed technical. Instead of choosing tasks, it's suggested to replace "the only criteria for measuring results." And, as my colleague Podowak said, I'd like to ask her to be fully confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u42	Colleagues, please make up your mind. The committee has accepted this amendment and is asking us to vote in favour. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:39:55]] For-58 The next amendment is 1224. National deputy of Germany, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that what is proposed to be certified in terms of knowledge of Ukrainian, including trials, I would like to say that only Ukraine is trying to do this with regard to its people. I'd like the reporter not to be involved in this frenzy of patriotism. We need to speak clearly about article 10, the implementation of article 10 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which provides for the use of language. And that's why I'd like to draw attention to what we have in Poland, but there are exams conducted for those who have come to work in the state in authorities from abroad, and also for those who work abroad, and they have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Let us be determined by this amendment, fellow workers. I remind you, the amendment was rejected by the committee. That's 1224. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:32]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1225. The People’s Deputy Papiew requires words on it. It was taken into account by the committee, and this is the amendment of the People’s Deputy Screecher.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u45	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian national MPs, honourable Ukrainian citizens, again, I would like to draw your attention to this, no doubt, an anti-national law that humiliates Ukrainian citizens who want to speak their own language, who today refer to national minorities, who are to be protected under European legislation. I would like to draw your attention again to the fact that today, at 13 a.m. in Strasbourg, our fellow Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Brenzovich, a member of the BPT faction, will be speaking at this meeting, including Auriq Bosco, who will clearly and clearly inform the European community that this law is a grave violation of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens who regard themselves as national minorities. This law prohibits the use of Russian, Romanian, Hungarian, Crimean Tatar, and many other languages. What he has in his name.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's MP Screepnik, the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u47	Good afternoon! Please support the full-scale amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u48	Please vote. [[10:43:31]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1226. A national MP does not insist. Amendment 1227. National deputy of Germany. Is he insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate your attention to the fact that this bill essentially refers to latent abuse of the nation, latent abuse of our people. Who gave the right to a person who speaks the mother tongue, to come in and set up exams, to set up commissions, to set up some kind of commission, and to do something about it, to act with even the police force. Is it not shameful for our nation? So I'd like that if we did. To say that when we talk about exams, standards, who will determine what the standards are when Ukraine’s buffer territory, which it is and where 130 nationalities live? What standards, what criteria? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u50	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u51	The amendment of German and Shufrich colleagues provides for the exclusion of the position that a job for foreigners is being developed by a Nazicomy for people who have not studied in the Ukrainian language school. If this amendment is accepted, the task will be set by anyone, as a result no foreigner will be able to pass the exam. A person who wants to hold a position will not be able to pass an exam and corruption will be born. Thus, a colleague of Germany here works openly with those who do not know the English language, but would like to put it together, own it, and be able to occupy the respective positions in Ukraine in an absolutely calm manner. I would also like to ask the national MPs who here have called for the inflaming of international hostility, mentioning national minorities, to stop doing this, because we tolerate and respect all rights of national minorities, the law only protects the rights of Ukrainians in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u52	Please vote. [[10:46:12]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1228, National Deputy Boyko. Please, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, it is proposed to exclude part five of article 45, which is designed by the National Commission of National Language Standards for the Ukrainian Language Examination. According to the Education Act, this article 48 is part three, the order, the type and form of the quality of education monitoring is approved by the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science, i.e. the functions already defined by the Education Act. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u54	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:47:09]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1229, People's MP Screepnik. Don't insist. Next amendment number 1230, People's Deputy Podowak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I think it's very important right now to say in the context of this amendment in particular, and the following amendments, that what we hear today or continue to hear in the Supreme Council Hall about this bill and about all the amendments that were before, nothing less than the betrayal of the Ukrainian people by "The Opposition Block" we can't call. Because every word that comes out of the mouth of the representatives of the Opposition Block is an outright lie and there is no relation to this bill. And they deliberately fuel national unrest and mislead international partners. This bill integrates Ukrainian society. Please support this amendment in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:48:26]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1231. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u57	Thank you. Again, the citizens of Ukraine who watch us on television and listen to us on the radio, I draw your attention to the fact that this law is completely cynical, because if it refers to the development of Ukrainian language, it is essentially a law that prohibits Russian language, Romanian language, Hungarian language, Crimean Tatar language and other languages of national minorities in Ukraine. And to those who tell us today whether it works properly and does "The Opposition Block," "The Opposition Platform for Life" and others, you look at the results of the first tour, the Ukrainian citizens in your areas have shown you that they don't want to see you, and they don't want to see these laws. And look at the results of the vote, by the way, there, in those places where national minorities live compactly, you have zero percent. That's your grade, the main score from the Ukrainian people. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u58	Please vote in full. [[10:49:55]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1232, National Deputy Germany. Please. Shufrich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We suggest we rule out this paragraph, this is the principle of position. You know, I've always been against double standards. When the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Ms. Duna Miyatovich, came to Moscow and checked the situation in which our sailors are now located, we say that this is Ukraine. And when the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe says stop, stop, do not consider this law, return to it after the presidential election, we ignore it. I believe that this law, which today breaks our society, should certainly be adopted and considered after the presidential elections, but it must be adopted and correspond to the 10 articles of the Constitution. And the objection that we will then adopt a separate Law on National Minorities is contrary to vision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u60	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:51:33]] For-13. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1233, People's MP Screepnik. Thank you. Next amendment. Please, Papi's National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u61	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, we are very grateful to our citizens of Ukraine, the voters who, when voting in the first round, clearly and clearly gave an assessment to the active authorities, and precisely to the law that it generates. There is a perfectly logical question: Where is the coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I think we'll have to get back to that soon. Dear colleagues, those who speak of this law without reading it, look carefully at this law, which establishes "language neophasism" in Ukraine. And it's no different. And wait, please, for the assessments of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, because today, at 13 o'clock in Strasbourg, in accordance with the anti-constitutional, anti-European norms of this law, a round table will be held where our colleagues, who are with us in the hall, will clearly evaluate this law as one that violates the constitutional rights of the people. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u62	Thank you. Please vote in full. [[10:53:10]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1234. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u63	Thank you. Please vote on this amendment, take it into account without the last three words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Please vote. [[10:53:41]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1235, national deputy Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let us speak the truth to the citizens of Ukraine. This is not about school exams, but about the need to test the knowledge of Ukrainian language by Ukrainian citizens who have long since graduated from school have a higher education. Please show me the standard of the Constitution that requires language. People may experience circumstances, and this is not their problem, since at the age of 15, 13, 12, the State did not provide them with an opportunity to learn Ukrainian. But they're not Ukrainians for their nationality, but they're Ukrainians for their citizenship, they're patriots, they're willing to stand up and fight for Ukraine, but maybe they're a little bit less familiar with Ukrainian language than others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u66	Thank you. Correction counted. Next amendment 1236, People's Deputy Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u67	Please don't let me bet this amendment on confirmation. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u68	Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u69	Count it, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u70	Thank you. Next amendment number. [[B in m in s a l in]] So it's fully accounted for. 1237 is fully accounted for. National Deputy Germany, National Deputy Shufrich, are you insisting? Next, 1237. So it's completely accounted for. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take the word. 1237 amendment, national deputy Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u71	Madam Chairman, I don't think you understand me. That's a procedural question. Amendment 1235 is requested for confirmation. And 1236.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u72	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u73	Dear colleague Shufrich, it is a pleasure to have you come and have a constructive share in the discussion, unlike many of your colleagues who are constantly calling for international hostility, you are constructively speaking logically. This is where your amendment is included. The amendment is made by the deputies, not by the authors who want to discuss it, but by something new. You've already filed it, it's counted. So we're moving on. If your corrections are not taken into account, you will, of course, be speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u74	Do you insist on voting? 1237th, please bet on the vote, 1237th. [[10:57:18]] For-47 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1238. People's deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, Rule 1238 suggests that part five of article 45 should be drafted as follows: “The position of public observation of the conduct of the exam at the level of the Ukrainian language is approved by the central authority of the executive body in the field of education and science.” Such an amendment was rejected in view of the fact that the standard had been removed in general. Since the previous vote, 1237, was not confirmed, the standard of first reading is back to us. This is: "The position of public observation of the Ukrainian language exam is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." In this regard, I ask that my vote be put to the vote as one that is logical in relation to the return to the standard of first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u76	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, I ask you very much, and my colleague Shufrich, and colleague Boyko, do not put to the vote those changes that have already been taken into account. It's accounted for. Yes, it's counted. 1238 readout.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u78	Declined. 1238 Amendment of People’s Deputy Boyko, Helen Boyko, rejected. Please vote. [[10:58:54]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1239. People's MP Screepnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u79	Correction counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u80	Please, National Deputy. People's MP Papiev, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u81	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! I am now calling on the presiding officer to conduct the plenary session more carefully. Why? I'll explain. I have made a written request to you as a national deputy of Ukraine to submit to confirm Amendment 1236, including. You didn't put her on confirmation. So after 1234 you made the amendment 1237. This is for the transcript, I'm going to define as a violation of the draft procedure during the second reading. I demand a return and a confirmation of amendment 1236. And the current amendment is also proposed for confirmation. Once again, I draw the attention of Ukrainian citizens: this is not a law on the development of Ukrainian language, it is a law on the prohibition of Russian language and languages of national minorities in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u82	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u83	Madam Chairman, when the speaker constantly deceives Ukrainian citizens and those present in the hall, he calls for international hostility, as Mr. Papiev, constantly demeans Russian language, Russian - speaking citizens and citizens of other nationalities, how can we react? Apparently, Mr. Papiev is doing his best to delay the adoption of this law, like other colleagues from the Opposition Block. Apparently, colleagues from the Opposition Block want this law never to be passed, they want to humiliate Ukrainians, destroy Ukrainian language, just like the Soviet Empire has done all the time. Have a conscience! Well, stop at last, talk essentially about the amendments. And the amendment you were talking about, my colleague Over and over again, we've been looking at confirmation, in accordance with the Rules, and we've gone on and on and on and on. Do not break the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u84	Thank you. I would like to emphasize to the Ukrainian citizens to whom our colleagues so appeal. The procedures for parliamentary deliberation of drafts are designed to enable MPs with good intentions to use their powers to adopt bills. Today and a few weeks earlier, you have observed the abuse of your powers by the deputies, and unfortunately we must continue to observe it. Please, amendment number 1239. Vote. [[11:01:53]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1240. Please, the People's Deputies of Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u85	Thank you. Once again, the citizens of Ukraine, you see how the committee's presidents are constantly saying that someone is preventing him from working, stopping, there are a lot of other things. Dear colleagues, this is the procedure for reviewing the bill on second reading, it is clearly defined by the Ukrainian Rules. I would ask the chairman not to take the Supreme Council's rules freely, because this is the law of Ukraine. Please follow them, if I request an amendment for confirmation, you are obliged to place it on confirmation. Moreover, in order for you not to get confused, I write to you, there are figures for these amendments, please put them in place for confirmation, because this will all be a violation of the procedure for considering this bill, and there are precedents: the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional laws of Ukraine when they were violated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking you to make this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u86	Thank you. I also want to stress that sending written amendments is also a free interpretation of the law. Therefore, I ask the honourable deputies not to interpret the law freely. Once again, I stress that the legislative procedure for good-intentioned MPs to use their powers to prepare and adopt laws. Please, amendment number 1240. Please take full account of this. [[11:03:44]] For-38 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1241. National deputy of Germany. No, Shufrich, please include the People's Deputy Shufric word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we were just talking about the humiliation of individual citizens of Ukraine. I'm looking at this amendment, this article, and imagine we have Ukrainians certified and uncertified Ukrainians in Ukraine. And to get a certificate, you have to go to the exams. But what I want to say is, I'm going to be selling tickets for the show when the national MPs go and pass these exams. Well, the people of Ukraine will laugh and cry. We're already laughing and crying. Dear colleagues, I consider this norm and this article to be one that discriminates against our citizens. Nowhere in the Constitution is it written that Ukrainian citizens have to pass some tests. They are citizens of Ukraine, and dot! And everything else is defined by 10 articles of the Constitution, preferably not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u88	Please vote. [[11:05:18]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1244. Don't insist. 1245. [[B in m in s a l in]] Excuse me, folks. Missed one amendment — 1,242. Ms. Helena Boyko's national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, I will not insist on voting on this amendment because it is considered editorially. However, I would like to hear Mikola Leonidovich's opinion as a representative and head of the committee, why it is the committee's definition of the term of reinstatement. Is it not just once every four months that you're resuscitating a certificate? The suggestion that I'm doing 1240, Mrs. Alona Skrum, is six months. Was there a norm? And please explain why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u90	Thank you. We really are. We've had the last six months. We've really consulted with a lot of experts, with scientists, with the Ministry of Education, and they assure us that, according to the curriculum, four months is enough to study the state language at a level sufficient to obtain the certificate, because the certificate is not about academic knowledge of language, when it comes to applying for candidate protection, it's about language knowledge, enough to communicate at the initial levels, and it's enough for that to be done for four months. Thank you. It was the thought of scientists. Moreover, in Latvia and Poland, this rule is also four months old, and we have taken for granted the existing European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u91	Thank you. Then the next amendment is number 1245. People's deputy Birddog. Nope. Next amendment. 1244. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u92	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment of Dobrodomov regarding the cost - free completion of the exam is rightly supported here. But I want to say again that I suggested that all types of learning in Ukrainian that would allow citizens to do what the authors of the law are trying to do here. So I'd like the committee to pay attention to that. My amendments are all over the text of the law on freeness and security from the State of assistance in learning Ukrainian and providing Ukrainian. In this case, it's good, but we still need to think about whether these levels are needed, because the definition of levels of ownership, I think this is a violation of Ukrainian rights. How and by who will determine who speaks the English language? It's not in time. Please support the idea of free learning Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u93	Please vote. No, I'm sorry. Turn off the vote, please. Turn off the vote. There's no insistence on the MP. 1245 does not insist. 1246. People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u94	Please support this amendment in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u95	Please maintain full volume. [[11:09:12]] For-35 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 1247. Don't insist. 1248. National deputy of Germany. Is it Shufrich? Who's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u96	The suffritch will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u97	1248. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u98	Please tell me, I am reading, "The first time for Ukrainian citizens to pass an exam on the level of English is free." Please tell a Ukrainian citizen who has yet to pass the exam that he is a Ukrainian citizen? I am absolutely convinced that the great respecter of our Parliament, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, Dunja Mijatovic, does not take these novels explicitly and warns us. I still understand that a person who wants to be a citizen of Ukraine has to give a proper exam of the knowledge of Ukrainian language, such a practice is in the world, and that's perfectly normal. But when Ukrainians have to prove they're Ukrainians, it's like a cow has to prove that it's a cow. How can you put up with that? This is absolute discrimination against our citizens and contempt for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u99	Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[11:10:57]] For the five of us. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1249. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy, Mrs. Ptashnik. But a national MP. Sorry, Pisarenko insists that she be put on. Please, Mrs. Bird, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u100	Colleagues, my amendment referred to the possibility of accusing the results of the exam of the level of Ukrainian language not only to the National Commission of State Language Standards, but also to the appropriate judicial branch of power. I thank the committee for taking my amendment into account. I believe that this is an indication that every citizen is guaranteed the right to due process, and it is clear that regardless of which body he or she takes a decision in relation to a citizen, he or she has the right to appear before a court. So I don't insist on this amendment, and I don't want it to happen to anyone in the hall. I think it's perfectly logical to guarantee legal protection for every citizen, so I thank you for the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Bird. Let's move on. The next amendment is 1250. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Pisarenko. Don't insist. Next, 1251. Please, Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u102	Of course, our next amendment is a logical conclusion to the preceding or continuation. It is not enough that citizens of Ukraine, I stress, who are already citizens of Ukraine, are being humiliated to pass tests on the knowledge that they are Ukrainian, so please tell me in what articles of the Constitution do we require Ukrainians to learn Ukrainian? Please tell me, and Romanians, who are citizens of Ukraine and do not happen to know Ukrainian, what are the under-certified citizens of Ukraine? Why do we break up society? Why do we provoke conflict? I think this disgraceful norm should be repealed and excluded from this law, by the way, like the whole law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u103	Please identify yourself for amendment 1251. She was not considered by the committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:56]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. Next 1252. Please, Mrs. Boyko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, number 1252 is included in the committee’s edition, which is why I do not take it for granted. Nevertheless, article 45 sets out the order of prosecution of the results of the examinations, and there remains a question for the committee, if possible, to comment, Mikolo Leonidovich. The results of a public - language examination carried out in accordance with this law may be charged to the commission. And the same rule goes on to say that the order of prosecution of the results of the examination and the examination of the complaints are confirmed by the decision of the commission. That is, the commission itself approves the order and examines the complaints itself. How logical is that? If possible, Mikolo Leonidovich, comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u105	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u106	Thank you. It is the opinion of the approved committee that the results of the tests, as said by a colleague of Ptašnik, may be brought before the commission and that the decision of the commission may already be brought before the court, since the court, in its decision-making process, must confirm or challenge the decision of a certain public authority, in the present case of a commission. That is to say, the decision of the commission may be brought before a court of law, and this offer of a colleague, Birdman, is confirmed by the committee. Thank you. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u107	Please move on. Next amendment 1255. Please, Nestor Schufrich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, please read these words: "The State Certificate works on an indefinite basis." So in order to become a full citizen of Ukraine, you have to get a certificate: without paper you. – remember what they say. I don't want to repeat that word right now, that's what you are turning Ukrainian citizens who are entitled to citizenship and have all the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. And now you're limiting them, now you're demanding that you have a certificate to become a fully-fledged Ukrainian citizen! And you make a mockery of the fact that this certificate is going to work on an uninterrupted basis. You know, it's a disgrace! It's disgraceful about ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u109	Please identify yourself for Amendment 1255. Please. The committee turned her down. [[11:16:48]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. Next 1257. Same for Nestor Schuffritch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u110	You know, well, this amendment is already the top of cynicism, I mean, this article. It's not enough that we're asking for a certificate to feel like a Ukrainian citizen, even though this right is granted to us by the Constitution of Ukraine, that this unfortunate Ukrainian is still going to shake and fear that the state certificate of being a Ukrainian can still be revoked because there's going to be someone there who's going to write a complaint, and this person is going to start pulling again, as is happening in today's practice. I think the very principle of the exam, it is shameful and it discriminates against our citizens. I demand that this article be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u111	Please. Comment, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u112	Just in case, let me explain that the Ukrainians do not need to pass any tests, and this is only about candidates for the highest positions. And this amendment tells us that if this claimant, for example, gave bribes during the trial, his certificate could be revoked by the court’s decision. Thus, the exclusion of this amendment actually stimulates corruption in our country and does not allow citizens who claim higher public office to demonstrate their positive qualities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u113	Thank you for your clarification. Please identify yourself for amendment 1257. The committee turned her down. [[11:18:52]] For-12. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 1258. Please, Mrs. Boyko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, number 1258 is on the committee's agenda. I do not insist on her vote. However, the matter remains with the committee. Mikolo Leonidovich, you suggest as a committee: a state certificate can be revoked by a court decision taken as a commission. Please tell me, is this not a narrowing of citizens' rights from the point of view of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code? It may be necessary to extend the subject matter of the right to file such actions, since the commission itself issues a certificate and has the right to make such a claim. How logical is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u115	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u116	Listen, well, if anyone can go to court, then the courts will be sued by various claims from competitors to higher public offices. Obviously, this issue must be clearly regulated. The court will decide if the commission is charged with false certification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u117	Thank you. The next amendment is 1259. Please give the People's Deputy Papi's word. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy Screepnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u118	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Look, look at this law to make it clear. It is not just a law that humiliates Ukrainian citizens who speak Russian, Hungarian, Romanian, and that law demeans all Ukrainians in general. Moreover, the authorities are setting up a mechanism for political persecution. I mean, when it comes to canceling a certificate for some reason, and you know how it works and does it. That is, the one who will be disagreeable will find and fight them, undoing these so - called certificates. You can still make up some badges, yes, some stars, so that you can distinguish people. Well, it's just a law that sets up speech neophasism in our country. We have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Thank you. I'm asking the enemy language to stop in the session room, and so in society we've had a lot of hostility lately. I'm asking you to complete this amendment. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. [[11:21:29]] For-30 The next amendment is 1260, Ptašnik. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment, I have proposed that the information contained in all valid State certificates that confirm the level of English language in order not to be in public access should be made available to the public, and that it should be made available on request in accordance with current legislation and relevant data to be stored. So I'm going to insist on my amendment and I'm going to ask the committee and the working group that will then prepare the final version for the vote that if even this amendment is not supported right now, I'm going to come back and pay attention to it. Because I think that the corresponding data, such as the name, the name, the father or the level of the national language, the serial number, the date of issue of the national certificate, well, it's probably the kind of data that a person would still want to be out of public access. So I'm going to suggest that we review the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u121	Thank you. Please move on. Next amendment. For confirmation. People’s MEP Papiew demands full confirmation. Please be sure. Please, my friends, confirm the full extent of this amendment. [[11:23:02]] For-27 The next amendment is 1261, Nestor Schufrich. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, as soon as there's a requirement to have a proper certificate of knowledge of Ukrainian, what's going to be an object and speculation is 100 percent. But imagine, now tens, if not hundreds of thousands of our citizens, who will begin to pass exams after the adoption of this law. But I'm talking about double standards again. Tell me, when foreign ministers, who couldn't speak half a word in Ukrainian, decided on our country's economic development strategy, decided on our country's health strategy, that was normal, because they were Western specialists. So how many specialists are we going to destroy and we're going to be able to separate from the ability to help Ukraine by adopting these standards, which are absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u123	Please be determined by this amendment, colleagues. I'm reminding you that this is amendment number 1261. [[11:24:36]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1262. Mrs. Boyko, your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, in full support of the 1260 issue, Mrs. Birddog Victoria, and in support of its position, I would also like to point out that, in accordance with part three of article 48 of the Education Act, the order, species, form of quality quality monitoring is approved by the central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science. In connection with this part of article 45, I propose to exclude it. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u125	I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. He's asking for our full support. No, this amendment was rejected. Excuse me, Mrs. Boyko is asking to make up your mind. [[11:25:26]] For-16 The amendment is not accepted. Next up, 1263. People's MP Papiew, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u126	Thank you. Once again, I am addressing Ukrainian citizens. In view of the fact that events are taking place following the adoption of this law, the discussion of amendments, yes, it may seem as though the Ukrainian national deputies are doing something of no importance. But, honourable citizens of Ukraine, this law seeks to humiliate you in the future. You can imagine when there will be general access to a register. Then there will be half - sick people there who will hang these lists on the driveways, and children in your schools will also hang these lists. I mean, it's a totally morbid law. This is a law that, well, has absolutely no right to life in the modern European country to which we refer. This is a law that degrades the honour and dignity of Ukrainian citizens, this is a law that is absolutely, absolutely anti-national. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u127	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u128	Yes, Comrade Papiev, the Ukrainian citizens really feel that you're delaying your role over the bill, you're doing the demagogies, unlike very often, for example, your colleague Shufric, who often basically talks about his amendments. Because this amendment just says that to replace the word "school" with "educational" because that's what the Education Act says. And you have a huge amount of sleep, not essentially an adjustment, but an example from a fellow Shufrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u129	Please be determined by amendment 1263, please be sure, colleagues, the committee has supported it and is asking us to support it fully. Please be determined in full volume. [[11:27:31]] For-46 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 1264. The Kremlin's national deputy does not insist. Next 1265. Germany. Shufrich, please, Nestor Ivanovich, give you your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u130	You know, I definitely don't want schools to be used for this execution. Why scare the children, well, why should they see this horror from the first years of their coming into life, so that they can see what kind of authority awaits them? On the contrary, to be mild - tempered. What do they see? How do the uncles who have Mercedes come in and buy themselves some certificates, and they're looking, my God, where are we going? So they will definitely flee from Ukraine. At least feel sorry for your children. Do this in other government institutions, and God forbid, in schools so that children do not see this absurdity, they do not want to be called another word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u131	Thank you, thank you. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1265. [[11:29:06]] For the 10th. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 1266. Please, National Deputy Shufrich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u132	And here's the answer: Where's the boy? All this nonsense is going to be financed by the state budget. So it's going to have to be a machine, it's going to have to be money that can be given a little bit, even a few copies, and you're proud that 17 copies have reduced the price of gas, and that's a big victory. So why not increase your pension at the expense of these funds? And so these costs are actually going to be spent on looting, because then you're going to have to buy sheets, you're going to have to buy a different material base, and all of this is going to be stolen. So I can say for sure now, and let the Ukrainians know that this law is another manipulation and corruption, and the desire to steal our taxpayers' money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u133	Please identify yourself for amendment 1265. If you'll excuse me, the committee has turned her down. [[11:30:33]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next is 1266, and so is Nestor Suffritch. Please, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u134	That's, I think, twice over it, now 67. It's 67 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u135	No, it's 66 now. I'm sorry, guys, I'm sorry. 12. No, no, I'm sorry, I misdirected the hall, please. 1267, please, Mrs. Boyko, this is your amendment. And for the stenogram, 1265 and 66 are rejected. Please, Mrs. Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, Law 1267 proposes part of the fifteenth article of article 45 to read as follows: “Financing of measures to conduct courses of free learning of Ukrainian language on a permanent basis and an examination of the level of speaking of Ukrainian is done on the basis of the costs of the state budget in accordance with the law of order.” The committee offers free examinations. And by appealing to the previous reporter, I would like to point out that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, education is free of charge, and that is guaranteed by the State. That is why not only exams but also training should be considered free of charge. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u137	Thank you. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1267. [[11:32:02]] For -14 Let's move on. Next amendment 1269. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. This amendment is taken into account by the committee, the national deputy of Knieżicky, but Papiev insists, a national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u138	First of all, I pay attention to all those present, and during the second reading, those amendments can be considered only to those articles that were in the body of the law on the first reading. That is, they are now trying to artificially introduce another additional article into a law that was not considered in the first reading. This is a gross violation of the rules and procedures. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm. And once again, I'm paying attention to all the people in Ukraine who are looking at us: don't believe anyone, the citizens of Ukraine, that this is a law on the development of Ukrainian language, under the name of this law, the authors have hidden the ban on Russian language, Romanian language, Hungarian language, other languages of Ukrainian national minorities. This is an absolute law that establishes "language neo-fascism" in Ukraine, which is a law that does not have the right to exist in a civilized European country, which is Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u139	Please comment with the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u140	Thank you. In the civilized European country Ukraine, there should be no Fascist calls that have just come out of this place with hatred burning against the national minorities of Ukraine - Russians, Hungarians, Romanians, whom we all love, respect and respect. We understand, Comrade Papiev, that only in the heat of international hostility can you hold on to some part of this Ukraine, separate it, sell it to the Russians, prevent the Ukrainians from defending their own language. This is my amendment, it's part of the committee. Please consider it fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u141	Thank you. Please consider the full edition. [[11:34:19]] For-39 The next amendment is 1270. Please, Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u142	Clearly, there is a conflict. (I'm asking you to change the picture. Thank you. Of course, in the dispute in which my colleague Papiev and my colleague Princely now took part, the arbitrator can speak — who do you think? – only Dunja Mijatovic, who is the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. But now imagine taxpayers who speak Russian, Romanian, and Ukrainian. But they're about to run to the Treasury to withdraw their money! They say: "We pay taxes not for our own discrimination! Because we are citizens of Ukraine, not certified citizens."--well, I don't even want to talk to anyone. Do you know who they're accompanying? That's why I'm so against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u143	Thank you. Please identify yourself for Amendment 1270. I'd like to make a statement. Meanwhile, Mr. Nestore, the Commissioner for Human Rights, Dunja Miyatovich, has not yet made a statement regarding hostages, prisoners of war and so forth. And we would like her to act on her mandate and also to visit our war-torn marines. [[11:35:54]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. 1270 next. Mrs. Boyko, your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u144	Amendment 1271. Part 16 of article 45 is proposed as follows: "The person who has passed the test on the level of the English language has the right to become familiar with his examination work after his examination and to obtain a certified copy of this work, which corresponds to the position of the committee. I'm proposing a distinction here: "The order of issuance of certified copies of the completed examinations establishes the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science." The committee proposes as a commission. Once again, I appeal to the committee, and I stress that article 64 of part three of the Education Act determines that the order, type and form of quality monitoring of education approves the central authority of the executive branch in the field of education and science. This rule is valid and is not repealed. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u145	I'd like to make my decision on Mrs. Boyko's amendment. This is amendment number 1271. [[11:37:15]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment. National MP Kishkar, will you not insist? Thank you. Mrs. Bilozer won't insist on his amendments there further? Thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. 1276. Your word. 1276. Mrs. Bilozer's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u146	I'm sorry. I'm addressing the committee head. In principle, we move on to chapter eight. The eighth chapter is "Protection of State Language." And, of course, it takes a key mechanism to write out which state language would protect, because our law must be applied to the extent that it is implemented and required by our citizens. We must include various encouragements to use the national language. Because if in regions, for example, where Ukrainian national language is not widely used, we can use various bonuses, monetary rewards, tax benefits and many different interesting moments to encourage people to use the national language itself. That's why we asked in this direction to change: instead of "authorized" -- the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I just want to know your position. Of course we won't vote, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u147	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u148	I'm just, you know, it's an important topic even in view of that destructive discussion that's taking place today in the hall. Because so that our bill does not look like a penal law, but that we can foresee it, and it is provided for, it is simply vaguely written, bonuses and motivations to know, learn and use the national Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u149	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u150	Thank you, fellow Bilozer. Well, it is in Article 5 that both the benefits are provided and the encouragement, just as you suggested, that the Cabinet of Ministers installs these benefits and incentives. All of this is described in article 5. In this case, we're talking about monitoring the implementation of this law and protecting the Ukrainian language. The Minister’s office, it is a collegiate body, and it will be objectively difficult for him to exercise control. Besides, he's authorized out of control. The mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers for the Control and Protection of Ukrainian Language is not provided for by the Constitution, is an exclusive list of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why we're introducing the position of Commissioner for the Protection of the State Language, but we support your initiative on incentives, benefits and support for the Ukrainian language mentioned here in other articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u151	Thank you. Mrs. Bilozer does not insist on voting, she simply spoke about the course of the discussion. Next amendment, National Deputy Shufrich, please 1281.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u152	Madam Chairman, in the absence of you, I have already thanked the Commissioner for Human Rights for visiting our sailors. And I just pointed out that we have double standards. On the one hand, when the Commissioner of the Council of Europe visits our sailors, that's what everybody likes, and when she calls for her to stop considering this law, we say she's her nose. But now. Why do we ask to exclude this part? This is not a language that needs to be protected in this law, but Ukrainian citizens need to be protected from the adoption of this law, because it completely contradicts the 10 articles of the Constitution and is discriminatory, and deprives our citizens of the right to use their own languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear Mr. Nestor, this is a very important conversation: Mrs. Miyatovich did not visit Ukrainian sailors, nor did she visit them, nor did she let them in. I have to pay your attention to the Ukrainian sailors. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not her, it's you and someone who got mixed up, I'll tell you the name of the guy who met you separately. Now, please vote for amendment 1281. Regrettably, Mrs. Miyatovich is not allowed to visit Ukrainian sailors, just as the Russian Federation does not allow authorized or legal professionals or the Red Cross. [[11:42:21]] For the five of us. Five, five to go. Let's move on. 1282. Please, Shufrich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u154	Mrs. Irina, perhaps that's when our mass media gave some vague information, because I read that she was in the presence of the Ombudsman meeting with our seaman, Grizzenko, and with several of our sailors. Well, I guess I don't have to believe what I read anymore and what I see with my own eyes. Our position is next. Of course, we have to amend this law in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, which protects the right to use our native language for Russian - speaking citizens and citizens who use national languages to the lesser. And it is not by chance that the Council of Europe and the European Parliament today demand that this be one law, not one for the national language, but another for the minority language. That's humane and fairer, and according to the Constitution it would be if it were all in the same law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u155	Please identify yourself for amendment 1282. [[11:43:57]] For -6 Yes, and I must admit, Mr. Nestor, you're right, Duni Miyatovich has granted access to one of our sailors, Mr. Gristenk. I'm sorry. I missed that information. Please put the results of the vote on the screen: 6 in favour. The correction is being rejected. Let's move on. 1286, National Deputy Boyko. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm sorry. Yeah, 82 even more, yeah, we do. 83. Please, Mr. Musai, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u156	Good afternoon, everyone! The honourable head of the committee! Oleg Musei, 124th District, Sokalstina, Red Town. I still have about 20 left. If you give me a clear answer, please, that there will be a committee meeting and there will be agreement that the Head of the Supreme Council has proposed, I am ready to withdraw all my rights in order to speed up the consideration of this bill, which is absolutely necessary to be approved by our Parliament. You know, a very difficult political situation right now with uncertainty with the presidents. A president in office yesterday claims that many problems are already under way with the law. A future candidate, who thinks he's almost president, says he's not in a good time. You know, just so it doesn't happen that we've delayed the adoption of this important bill with our own hands. So, please, if you give a clear answer that there will be an invitation, including those who wish, to the conciliatory final text and that the law will be passed as quickly as possible, I am willing to withdraw all the amendments, except for the latter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u157	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u158	I'm willing to give you my word that I'll do everything I can to make sure that all of your suggestions are taken into account so that we can meet with you and with other interested deputies in the appropriate meeting. I can't, unfortunately, guarantee that there will be a quorum or not on the committee, but we can find a mechanism to bring these agreed amendments to the hall, and I hope that the hall can vote for them. I can tell you honestly, honestly, I am also concerned about the position of so many politicians who are taking part in the presidential race that they've been taking before, and I'm concerned that some candidates don't understand the importance of this bill at all. But we vote in favour of this project here in the hall. And I hope there are most Ukrainian patriots in this room who want Ukraine to be a strong European state and Ukrainian language is protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u159	Thank you. Mr. Musai does not insist on voting. The next one is 12. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Mr. Papiev insists on confirming 1283. I'm putting it to a full vote. [[11:46:56]] For the 15th. It's getting better. It's full-scale. 1284, Mrs. Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, regulation 1284 suggests that the following edition reads: “Division VIII. Protection of the Ukrainian language as a national language." I think it's more consistent with the content and title of the Law itself, which provides for the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u161	Please be determined by this amendment, 1284. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:47:42]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 1286. This is Denisenko's repair. He insists that Pisarenko be given a word for confirmation. Please, Mr. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u162	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, I have talked about the need to maximize the system that the authors propose to establish for control of, I hope, publicity, but unfortunately for now, as long as we can see in the text in some areas even by binding and binding on the Ukrainian language. So I'm asking my colleagues, who are the authors of this law, very carefully to see that we don't create too much equipment to red tape the process of public language. I understand that the issue of the work of public authorities is one question. But there is no need to create bodies that control people's private lives and create excessive control over the use of Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u163	Please put the vote to the full extent of this amendment. Guys, I'd like you to keep up the good work. [[11:49:18]] For-27 The next one is 1287. So is the national MP. Oh, Papiev, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u164	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens who watch us on TV and listen on the radio, draw attention once again. See what the authors of this law are doing, and this so - called majority. In principle, they set up against themselves all Ukrainian citizens who speak Ukrainian because they don't want to be humiliated by these people, pass exams, and then read themselves on lists, registers and other things, some neo-fascist stuff. And those Ukrainian citizens who are representatives of national minorities, who have their constitutional right to speak in their own language, and Ukraine's legislation is also working to protect that language. Because Ukraine, I remind you, is the ratified European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. And look at the results of the first round of voting, and your authority will see that zero percent in the places where national minorities live compactly, that's your verdict. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u165	Requires the word of the chairman of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u166	Dear colleague, I would like to remind you that most Ukrainian citizens voted in favour of upholding the status of Ukrainian as a national, most Ukrainian citizens. Only a small number of Ukrainian citizens voted for other candidates. This is not one candidate, many candidates, most of whom were among others in this room, are in favour of maintaining the status of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I very much ask you not to refer to the status of Ukrainian as national, as required by the Constitution, as neo-fascism. Because what you're doing is actually calling for Stalinism and for the destruction of the Ukrainian language. Have a conscience, do not speculate, do not humiliate Ukrainian language and Ukrainian citizens. I'm just asking you a friendly favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u167	Please fully support Amendment 1287. [[11:51:35]] For -14 This is a full-scale correction. The next one is 1288. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u168	Thank you. In general, I wanted to say that it is unacceptable to impose certain responsibilities on a person’s ability to speak or speak a national language. I also want to say that my amendments relate to the fact that we now have sufficient criminal responsibility for discrimination already in the state. This is also true of language discrimination. I want to stress this for all those who disrespect any language and discriminate against people of any kind, including language. And this does not apply only to Ukrainian. We also have sufficient responsibility for the abuse of State symbols. So I would like not only to say that there is no need to impose a new responsibility on any language, but I would also like to ask the committee head to comment on the fact that there is still a responsibility under language law in the final edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u169	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u170	Thank you, colleague. Well, you suggested article 46: "Public humiliation, contempt, deliberate distortion of the national language in official documents and texts that lead to obstacles and restrictions on the enjoyment, violation of human rights, and incitement to hostility on the ground entail the responsibility set forth in articles 161 and 338 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine." Instead, the authors are against any criminal responsibility for violating this law. That's why we didn't support this amendment of yours, and the committee deliberately refused to impose any form of criminal responsibility for violating the legislation on the state language and no references to the Criminal Code or criminal responsibility, the bill does not contain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u171	Thank you. Please identify yourself for amendment 1288. [[11:53:47]] For-0 This amendment is not supported. The next amendment is 1295. National MP Nestor Schufrich, please. Excuse me, I didn't notice your dear colleague in the hall. 1292, People's Deputy Guljav, please. Please, the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u172	Vasile Guljava, group "The Rebirth Party." I represent the glorious Clothing in Parliament. This is the land where 133 nationalities live, and I assure you that everyone respects Ukrainian as a national language. But not everyone had the opportunity to get an education in Ukrainian, and of course it was a mistake of the state, and today the common people should be responsible for the mistake of the state. How do you imagine a person who has spent his life in Russian, Moldavian, Bulgarian, and today, after the adoption of this law, will immediately begin to speak, to pass exams in English alone? Where are the minorities? It is a gross violation of the Ukrainian Constitution and does not contribute to the unification of ordinary Ukrainians. And if you'll excuse me, please put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u173	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u174	Dear colleague, for citizens of all nationalities, the law does not prohibit the private life from continuing to speak any language they speak. If they claim to be high - ranking officials and do not teach Ukrainian at school, yes, they should testify to their language. In fact, what you are proposing in this direction is actually taken into account by law in article 48, and it is rejected here only because this article does not regulate the confirmation of public speaking, for this article is about another, and what you are writing about is taken into account in article 48. And I want to reassure all citizens once again, no one is asking them to pass any exams if they've been studying Ukrainian in school, if they haven't been studying, either. But if they claim to be state officials, they also need to know Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u175	Please identify yourself for this amendment. [[11:56:26]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. I see, I see. 1290, please, Mrs. Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u176	Of course, I didn’t want to speak, for in principle the committee’s decision was rejected. But I wanted to point out, in view of what my amendment looked like before, that we should write a separate Cabinet of Ministers, and this amendment relates specifically to the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers. And so that we don't have just one vote that protects national minorities, I want to stress that we are adopting this law for Ukrainian citizens. And representatives of all national minorities, they are citizens of Ukraine, and their rights, functions, responsibilities protected by the Constitution of Ukraine. And it is in the Constitution that there is a direct norm that says that the country’s language in Ukraine is Ukraine, the Ukrainian language. And our law today actually expands, fills in the content of this constitutional norm. So I ask you not to exploit the subject and not share our society, it's a general, social, important to the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u177	Thank you for your clarification, dear colleague. I agree that this law is for all Ukrainians, Ukrainians. Please, next amendment to 1291. Nestor Schufrich insists on giving him his word. This is the Ribczynski amendment, it was counted by the committee, but he's asking for confirmation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u178	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, we are certainly concerned today about the introduction of the institution itself. And I'm asking questions, and we know that the introduction of such an institution is not free. But taxpayers, we have Ukrainian citizens who use different languages. And I think it's just not human and dishonest about those who are fighting today for their right to use their own language, for their own money that they don't accept, but that they have to finance. If we had made a balanced decision in this law on the options for using the Ukrainian language -- I agree with that -- to ensure the right to use other languages, this law would have been exemplary and would have brought the country together. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u179	Please be determined by this full-scale correction. Full-scale. Colleagues, please support this amendment in its entirety. [[11:59:28]] For the 18th. Colleagues, I'd like to say that I've reached the forerunner. We'll stop at the moment of the amendment and start after a break of 30 minutes with the amendment of the 1295 People's Deputy Shufric. I'd like to inform you that there's been an announcement by the Presidium. In the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representatives of Brodovščina, including students, graduated from the Brodov Pedagogical College of Markian Šaškević. The exhibition "Taras Shevchenko is an artist" is presented on the third floor of the towers. A look from the 21st century." And this exhibition has almost 100 exhibits. And everyone invites you, the organizers of the exhibition, to visit her on a break. And I'm calling it a 30-minute break. And at 12:30, we'll be back with you to consider the amendments. It seems to me that if we add intensity, we have a good chance of moving more dynamically to consider amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u180	So, colleagues, we continue our work. Everyone, please come into the hall. And I invite the chairman of the committee to the hall. So, colleagues, I'd like to report that we've already been through those corrections that were filed by letter from the People's Deputies Pisarenko and Germany. One letter remained from the People’s Deputy Papiev. And according to the right-wing authors, I'm also going to focus on every direction. I invite the committee head to the rostrum. And ask the right-wing authors to get ready for work. I would like to remind you that before the break we stopped on line 1295, the author is Nestor Schufric. And to the Princess Nicholas of Leonidovich, I remind you, 1,295. And I give the floor to Nestor Schofrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u181	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, what is "authorized"? This is the appropriate vertical that will cost our taxpayers taxes. And imagine a Ukrainian citizen, I emphasize which one. This has happened historically, he speaks exclusively Hungarian and, for example, Russian, Romanian and Russian, or just Russian, or another language, how he can see that he is deprived of his constitutional rights, and they're also creating an institution that will implement it. I think we need to stop these actions, reconcile this law with the 10th article of the Constitution in part of the right to use other languages. We respect the standard that Ukrainian language is a national language, but we demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u182	I'm betting on the vote of 1295. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:37:53]] For-9 The decision is not taken. 1296. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u183	96!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u184	He insists. Yes, please, 1296, Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u185	Mr. Head, we insist on all our amendments. Thank you. It's a continuation of the subject. Today we may not have the moral right to spend tens of millions or more to create another administrative vertical that. For which our citizens will pay. The previous law, which was repealed, which was recognised by Europe as one of the best in the matter of regulating language relations, did not require a single penny from the state budget, and this is about tens or maybe hundreds of millions of dollars. Finally, we do not know how much we will need. Not to us, but to our citizens, this money. Therefore, I ask that the appropriate standard be rejected in order to ensure the constitutional rights of our citizens and to save the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u186	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 1296. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:39:30]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, short notice. Today, there is a delegation from the Czech Parliament, our colleagues, and they are in bed. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Thank you for your support. And we are convinced that the relationship between our nations will be strengthened, and thank you for your support. Thank you. We're moving on, colleagues. 1297. Don't insist. 97th, Bird. 98th is your turn. Eight o'clock, Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u187	[[Presentation in a Foreign Language]] Dear colleagues, I've just addressed our colleagues from the Czech Parliament in Slovak, unfortunately I don't know Czech, it's a little bit different as Russian from Ukrainian, by the way. And I asked our colleagues to support the desire of our citizens to use their constitutional right to speak Slovak, in Czech, because Carpathian was part of Czechoslovakia at the time. And I would like us to respect the rights of our citizens, who are Ukrainian citizens, to use Hungarian, Romanian, Czech and Slovak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u188	I would like to stress and point out that in the Ukrainian Parliament, every speech must be in the national language of Ukraine. I would like to stress further and make a warning. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u189	Thank you. It's nice to see people here who have been able to build a strong democratic Czech state. Similarly, we are now building a strong democratic Ukrainian state that protects the rights of national minorities of Czechs, Slovaks, honors the history of Czechs, Slovaks, honors the history of Ukraine. We're fighting on the front, Russian tanks on our borders now. These are the tanks that entered Prague in the 68th year; these are the tanks that these people want to bring to Kiev by means of demagogies, but we will do everything we can to keep Ukraine as a Ukrainian democratic state, to protect the Ukrainian language and languages of the national minorities who live in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u190	Thank you. And I think Czechia is an example to us. In their time of trying to forget and squeeze out the Czech language, the Czech State has done a great deal, including through legislation, to render the Czech language. And today it is reborn with the help and the legislation and the actions of all authority. We take the example of you today, and we are also restoring the Ukrainian language to the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your example. Ninety-nine, Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u191	Of course, you're doing it now. Take the example of other countries, but they have the utmost respect for the use of the languages of other peoples and nationalities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u192	Please speak in national language, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u193	I'm going to English. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now. We have witnessed an example of how we deprive ourselves of the ability to use the language of our partners, our almost neighbors, through Slovakia. And I'd like to avoid this conflict both inside and outside of the country, so you don't feel ashamed to see your European colleagues when you say we're in Europe, and you're denying people the use of languages not only in Russian but also in the languages of the European Union. I'll be honest with you, we're not with this kind of flower in Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u194	Colleagues, it doesn't matter what language, other than Ukrainian, it matters that in the Ukrainian Parliament it is necessary to speak in national language, as it is in all civilised parliaments. And I'm going to vote 1299. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[12:44:33]] For -6 The decision is not taken. 1300. Don't insist. 1300, Papiev. Yes, it's in a letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u195	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear Chairman! I remind you once again, I handed over the written address of the Ukrainian national deputy, where all the amendments are listed. I ask you to follow through and carefully give me the floor to make adjustments so that I can speak out of them. You can see that this law, just now there was an event for which it was sad, because in fact, there were representatives of a civilized European country, for which there is a savagery of what you are doing in the hall today. It's not about protecting the Ukrainian language, it's not about developing the Ukrainian language, it's about blocking the Russian language, it's banning the Romanian language, it's banning the Hungarian language. I draw your attention once again to the fact that 13 hours after European time, there will be a round table in Strasbourg where Vasil Branzovich will claim the anti-national, anti-constitutional nature of this law. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u196	So I'm voting on amendment 1300, it's included in the committee's editorial. Who's in charge of accepting it in its original form, please vote. [[12:46:08]] For two. The decision is not taken. 13. 99th Amendment We voted, Mr Nestor. Vote. Look at the transcript, and you'll see, I've put 99 amendments to the vote. I call each of them, and every time we have a discussion. 301, Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u197	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected citizens of Ukraine, who watch the progress of events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the second reading of this law. You know, the only source of power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people. And right now, on the first round, I want to draw your attention to the fact that this is the kind of legislation that's at stake, they got an estimate, in a region like the Hertzian region, where they live compactly in the province of the Romanian nation, there's about 92 percent. This is the result of the first round: Zelenski – 33 per cent, Boyko – 29 per cent, Timoshenko – 15 per cent, Lyashko – 7 per cent, Poshenko – 6 per cent. That's your grade. That's it. The people of Ukraine, by free will, have just given you an assessment of how you are destroying European values in general regarding the attitude towards regional languages and languages of national minorities. People have the right to speak their own language. Do not forbid them to do so. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u198	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u199	I would like to thank all the citizens of Ukraine of Romanian origin who, by their vote, testified that they supported only those candidates who advocated Ukrainian as a national language. And the only candidate who objected chose a little more than 20 percent of the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u200	Thank you. Please vote this amendment to the fullest extent. Please, colleagues, please. Please, in full volume. I'm putting her to a vote, and the committee's asking for support, yes. [[12:48:17]] For the 15th. The next amendment is 1304. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev. This amendment was also taken into account by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues may not have heard what I said coming out of the rostrum. I'm counting those candidates again, and how much percentage did they get on the famous Bukovina, in the Hertzian region, where they live compactly in the province of the Romanian nation. I'll draw your attention once again: Zelenski – 33 percent, Yuri Boyko – 29 percent, Julia Timoshenko – 15 percent, Oleg Lasko – 7 percent, Peter Poroshenko – 6 percent. This is an estimate in the area where they live compactly, in Bukovin, where interfaith and inter-ethnic harmony have always been a compact place for the Ukrainians of the Romanian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u202	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u203	Now you want to ban them from speaking their own language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u204	Dear Mr. Mikhailo, dear Mr. Mikhailo, you are very often and sometimes even rightly aware of the prejudices about the need to comply with the rules of the Rules. I would like to remind you that during the discussion of the amendments, there should be no statement regarding the percentage of voters, but only on the body of the amendment. And I'll turn off the microphone if the body doesn't repair the trailers. I'm asking you to make a full amendment now to 1304, colleagues. I'm asking you to be sure. Still, if anyone takes the word, only the body can be repaired. The only exception is Dunja Miyatovich, of course. [[12:50:05]] For two. Let's move on. Amendment 1305. Please, the People's MP. By way, you have the word, you are the author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u205	Please put this amendment to a full vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u206	Please, to the fullest extent, allow me to put this amendment to the vote. [[12:50:37]] For-29 The next one is 1306. Please, a national MP. 1307, National Deputy Nestor Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u207	Here, I read about the Commissioner's annual report. I want our citizens to understand who we're talking about. This is about the head of the central authority. People are good people, you can't even imagine what kind of equipment will have to be activated to prepare this report. And for all this happiness our citizens will pay by paying their taxes. And at the same time, we have a population gas price of almost a half as much as the industrial gas price. This has never been the case in any day of independence in Ukraine! So for our oligarchs, the gas has to be almost half as cheap as our citizens? That's a shame! And what happens here now, instead of solving people's issues, including gas, is irresponsible to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u208	Thank you. Please, 1307th. We're voting for the amendment. [[12:52:12]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. Amendment 1312. National deputy Shufrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u209	Thank you. Our position is logical and consistent. We think that spending people's money today to provide for and finance a problem that the government itself invents is not human. Not that it's irresponsible, it's not human. And I'm absolutely convinced that instead of creating a law that would unite our society, it would remove all the contradictions, not enough that we're breaking our society, so we're still in people who don't agree, we're offering, I'm sorry, you're offering to take money from people to pay for what they don't want. In fact, it was with these words that I was approached during a meeting in Zaporozhye during a meeting in Donbas. And people told me, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u210	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:53:48]] For two. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1313. People's deputies don't insist. 1314. Don't insist. 1315. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u211	The appointment and release of the Authorized for the protection of the national language. People of good, honourable colleagues, is this the most important question we have to consider with you right now? Do people also live well, that we should consider the issue of discharge and the appointment of an authorized person to whom we should spend tens or maybe hundreds of millions of dollars the state should spend, but from where? By taking them out of our citizens' pockets, instead of building another hospital, helping those with cancer, increasing funding for education the same, we're cynically taking money from people today, I'm absolutely convinced against their will, we're spending this money on something they can't agree with. Thank you. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u212	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:55:30]] For the The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1316. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u213	Please repeat the correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u214	1316, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u215	What, did everyone agree with the previous ones? Continued by what I said before. And the 15th why not, not counted?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u216	We just voted on Amendment 1315, your next amendment 1316. Will you be speaking about her?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u217	We voted before the 12th and now the 15th. I'm asking the 15th to set up. We voted 12th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u218	Dear National Deputy Shufrich, you've missed. please listen carefully to the presiding officer at the meeting and do not miss the number of amendments that are being announced. Your previous speech and voting took place with regard to Amendment 1315. Right now, amendment number 1316, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u219	We go back to the logic of our amendments. It's not enough that we're spending a third week on the law now, while people have an urgent need to settle their lives, to settle their tariff issues, there are a number of bills that require a moratorium on the price of gas, to raise the cost of utilities, so today we're considering this law. And in the future, we want to give the job and the burden of defining this issue to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please tell me, isn't there something else that our government shouldn't be doing? Although you know, smart people said, thank God that Parliament doesn't actually work before the President's election. Because those decisions that have been made before the adoption of this law are anti - national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u220	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:58:05]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1317, national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u221	Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm imagining a show, and as soon as we go to the NABU, the anti-corruption court, at any rate, different provocations begin, and we're creating another opportunity to see how the candidates are going to be appointed. Please tell me, will this adorn our authority and the image of our country? Is that why people pay their taxes? People pay taxes for a better life, hoping that the authorities do not do stupid things, do not upset their money, but still hurt their constitutional rights. On the contrary, this law deprives the constitutional right to use native language, with all due respect for Ukrainian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u222	Please vote. [[12:59:35]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1318. Head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u223	Please consider this amendment, which is fully taken into account, by way of an editorial reduction in the appointment period from 30 to 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u224	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:00:04]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1320, People's Deputy Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u225	In this amendment, please revert the word "iz" to the first edition and vote in favour of this amendment, taking it into account in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u226	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:00:47]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1322. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u227	You know, funny and sinful. I read: "A citizen of Ukraine, at least 30 years of age, may be recommended to serve as Commissioner for the Protection of State Language on a day of submission, which has higher education and speaks the national language. " Who's going to give him a certificate if the institute isn't created yet, huh? Then tell me who will give him the certificate if the relevant institution of the authorized one is not created. So first we're a calf, and then we don't have horses. You know, this law is the rule of absurdity, irresponsibility and anti-constitutionality, disrespect for our citizens. And even this article shows once again that this law was taken out solely for the sake of elections. Another thing that didn't help is that people are in pain today, not in the language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u228	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u229	The protection of the Ukrainian language, ensuring its functioning as a national language, is in no way related to the election. These are all myths that are trying to break this law, but in Ukraine, I don't think they're going to let that happen. Dear colleague Schuffritch, the Transitional Positions stipulates that the first authorized person is indeed appointed without a certificate, because the English language as such is secured and fixed in other valid laws of Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u230	Please vote. [[13:02:50]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1323. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u231	Continues the subject. People good, what are we doing? We limit the right of people to hold appropriate positions in Ukraine. I want to remind you that even the illustration is over because it's been five years. But someone else will answer for the illustration in this country because the illustration, I apologize, has led to castration in our country of the protection of citizens' rights. Because they brought in people who have no idea what government is. Moreover, professionals were thrown out. One thing is, when you come and invite professionals, the other thing is when you get rid of competitors, even smarter. So I think that any restriction is inappropriate, it's unconstitutional, and we're proposing to delete an article that limits the possibility of properly assuming a position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u232	Please vote. [[13:04:20]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1324. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u233	I'm sorry, what was the phrase, "has been held responsible for violating the requirements of this Act"? Well, we were promised no criminal responsibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then what. How can we draw to what we don't have? You guaranteed that there would be no criminalization for this law. In this case, you say that a person who is drawn to criminal responsibility for violating this law cannot be assigned there. So where is the truth? So I ask our society to be very careful and careful. This law is not unconstitutional; it is still a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u234	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, the lie is the phrase that you just said when you mentioned a mythical criminal responsibility, because there is no reference to criminal responsibility in the law. This article makes it impossible for a candidate to recommend a person who has been called to account for violating the requirements of this Law. The word "criminal" does not exist here, as does the law everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u236	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:06:11]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1325. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u237	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, look at the blasphemy that is taking place during the debate and vote in favour of this law. You can imagine, this so-called coalition, the so-called majority, which today has less than 5 percent of the population of Ukraine, it's now initiating, very little, it's initiating rules of law that only their godparents were responsible for, and they themselves have determined who could be there and who couldn't be. You can imagine how the wording sounds like this rule: "has been involved in attempts to introduce official multilingualism contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the established constitutional procedure." What if, in some area, according to the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages, this person initiated a referendum? Now, you see, you're setting those standards that double interpretations have. This law does not have the right to exist. I'm asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u238	Please vote. [[13:07:44]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1326. National deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, well, I understand we can argue: criminal, administrative, political responsibility. What responsibility is this? A person has a position that does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and may claim this position. Who will solve her evaluation position? This is to be done exclusively by the court. And in this case, we are. You propose to hand over the functions of the court to whom it is incomprehensible and to restrict the Ukrainian citizen in his constitutional right to obtain an appropriate position. I believe that this rule is contrary to many articles of the Constitution and cannot be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u240	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u241	Madam Chairman, I would like to address Mr Papiev, who is here in the hall, because I have not been able to answer from the previous amendment, just as my colleague Birddog, a colleague of Papiev, has been corrected, who has ruled out the rule that a person who has participated in attempts to introduce multilingualism has no right to work here. After your insistence, this rule has returned to the law. Thus, it is thanks to you that people who, you say, want to organize some local referendums will not be allowed to claim. have the right to claim this position. I don't mind, but just the declarations of our pseudo-positioners don't really match their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u242	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:09:55]] For the The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1327, national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u243	Mr. Mikolo, I don't understand that the amendment of 1325 colleagues of Birds is taken into account, and the same amendment of Germany-Shufric is not counted. Where's the logic? Then I'll keep going, I'll keep going. Therefore, we are now asking questions about the support for our next amendment, which relates to the initiation of the candidature procedure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I've already said that this question is now inappropriate and it's what's causing our society to break apart. And to load this issue with both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at a time when people have nothing to pay for utilities, when their debt for them is about 80 billion and 2.5 months.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u244	Dear colleagues. 13, which one? We're through. I just want to say that the Ptishnik National Deputy, this is a woman, a female person, that's her. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, it does not differ in different ways in the Ukrainian language. Right now, I think you're going to get the State Language Act, and you're going to be able to learn the difference in Ukrainian. Next amendment number 1328, national deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u245	This question again relates to the appointment procedure at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I certainly respect all my colleagues and colleague Birdcatcher for her contribution to the adoption of this law, not all I agree with, but our colleagues use their constitutional right as Ukrainian national deputies, and she also uses it. So please tell me why you are depriving Ukrainian citizens who do not have the opportunity to be present in this room of using a different language in all areas of activity, and you still require them to pay for it by demanding payment of taxes. I don't think it's human and it contradicts the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u246	Please vote. [[13:13:24]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1329, People's Deputy Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u247	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u248	Don't insist. Okay. The next amendment is 1330, national deputy Shufric.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u249	I'm handing over the German.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u250	Please, National Deputy Germano. 1330 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of being appointed to a position of authority, including the use of police structures in relation to citizens, to oblige them to speak the Ukrainian language. For no one to interrupt me, read 53 of this law and read draft 23 articles on the National Police. I'm talking about the reporter. Don't make this up, tell people the truth, and please don't lie about "there's no responsibility." Read it. It's about 6 or 8 thousand fines for today's pension of 1,000 dollars. What are you doing here, reverend? It's about people's lives. 15 seconds, please. 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u252	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:15:07]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1331. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to just one circumstance: authorship, authorship of the content of these standards. Look what this is all about. But these issues are addressed in the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Central Authority Act, which clearly defines who, when, and how, this person is appointed. Why are you duplicating? It is understandable to gain that weight and talk in a meaningful way about the normal content of all standards that in many cases are repressive in relation to ordinary citizens. I want to say a specific report: 41 articles provide for the regulation of relations, where exclusively in Ukrainian. You can hear 41 articles. And that's why I want you, when you send some information, to have it, to have it, to have it, and to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u254	Please vote. [[13:16:40]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1332, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u255	I read this rule: "The Cabinet of Ministers accepts the majority of the votes, given the highest number of votes." Ladies and gentlemen, go to the high school, he knows that this rule is unified throughout the legislative system. But here's one thing I want to tell you. I told you about 41 articles that regulate relationships so that you know that standards work in time and in space. Thus, in the space of humiliation of Russian - speaking or other citizens of national minorities, it has been established that this is an exception, except for the state language, except for the bedroom and the kitchen in a separate isolated apartment. Anything else, if you find and call it public now, then I'll take my words off. But you won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u256	Please vote. [[13:18:15]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1333, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u257	Hello, Germany. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to rule out this rule again, coming out of the position that this is all unified today. And the fiction used by the drafters of the bill, which isolates "protection of the state language" for the third time, cannot be allowed. Your Honor, tell me, where is the real threat to national language? Why is there an attempt to say "protection of the state language"? By whom and in what cases? And what does that mean, "a real threat to the protection of national language"? But the question of the death of other languages in Ukraine is certainly yes. Therefore, the Constitution points out that read article 10. And I would ask that we act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u258	Please vote. [[13:19:46]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1334. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, once again this institution is authorized. We have as many authorized people as we do today, including civil organizations, that we do not know who to listen to and when to listen to. Is it not clear that this waste of the legislative force in Ukraine cannot lead to anything other than scholasticism and the Brown movement regarding the application of norms? That's why we think to rule it out, that's the question. This should be decided in the working order with reference to the position, the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the reference to the Central Authority Act, which is and is in force today. And that's why we think that this institution and procedurally prescribed rules on the termination of powers, this is not the law and it doesn't need this law, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u260	Please vote. [[13:21:18]] For-9 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1335, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u261	I'm asking you to pass the word to Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u262	Rejected amendments can only be made by the authors of the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u263	But it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u264	It's a rejected amendment. Oh, I'm sorry, I've got it all wrong. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, I would ask the presiding officer to take a closer look at the table so as not to mislead the national deputies of Ukraine and those citizens who are watching on television or listening on the radio to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, well, some savagery in this article. You can imagine, there's a law that clearly and clearly establishes, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, gives clear rules that the Cabinet of Ministers' decision takes a majority of the votes of the audience. You take in this law, you write some rule, absolutely indisputable, which is the highest number of votes. Your Honor, what are you doing in the first place? As an elephant in a porcelain bench, yes, you are trampling on the existing legislation of Ukraine. A little bit, but I want you to have a little bit of fun, and here's the thing about this desire for some godfather to have common sense, so that you can still take over some of your skins. Please place this amendment on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u266	Please vote. [[13:23:08]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1336. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u267	I'm very grateful to my colleague, Bilozer, who applied the term "punishment mechanism" to this law very conveniently. Thank you very much, colleague. And now what I'm saying is that as the drafters try to hide in these procedural, procedural copanas that they made in this law, to hide the truth of this and the significance of establishing control and discrimination over other languages. And that's why we think that this whole issue against the authorized one should not be decided by this law in a defined, unified way, as it is in the Ukrainian legislative system. Don't make an extra institution without even getting the House of Accounts, you didn't write in the law what that law stands for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u268	Please vote. [[13:24:39]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Please, National Deputy Bilozore, one minute on the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u269	My colleague, Germany, I'm glad that you're listening carefully to everything that's said here in the hall, but that's exactly what this has to do with punishment for you. Because your faction commenting on this law is trying to turn it into a punishment. And what we're talking about is that it only implements the constitutional norm of our Constitution with you, of which we are citizens, our functions, our responsibilities, its possibilities, we develop and protect it. I'm familiar with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u270	Thank you. Next amendment number 1337, National Deputy Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u271	I want to focus on the number of people and people, my colleagues, the people's deputies in this room when we adopt this important bill and we discuss it. So I want to remind you here, look at this norm, which is: "the med school's failure to perform health duties." Again, what is my health? If you are talking about mental or mental health, it is one thing, if other physiological defects are different. Therefore, legislative procedures for today’s specific position do not provide for a medical definition of whether he can be a minister or a minister. Health — What Is It? You know what this is about! For a neurologist, it's not what's not clear, it's what's normal. Well, I'm sorry, but it's stupid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u272	Please vote. [[13:26:51]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1338. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u273	It's about violating the requirements of incompatibility. What is "incompatibilities"? In the legal definition, it has two ways: incompatibilities – it is impossible to do things according to its state of health, according to its civil status and everything else. And so I would like us not to repeat or duplicate what is written under other laws. And we think that for an authorized person, that's not the person that this action might even be about. So we think it's necessary to rule out these positions, they don't have any sense, all the more legal. Legal workload. Thank you. Please turn it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u274	Please vote. [[13:28:15.]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1339, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u275	Dear colleagues, a respected colleague who has a replica. She was just saying that it wasn't about the punishments, that it wasn't about letting everything else go. So I'm going to read, "You're freed if you're held responsible for violating the requirements of this law." That's the penalty. The penalty is not like Pugachova in a cage. Criminal sanctions are administrative sanctions. That is the penalty. So I would like us to understand and know. That's just what the reporter suggests, but they are, these punitive sanctions. And I'm telling you specific articles that are, which are set, first of all, if the violation is, there's 4,000, and so on up to 8,000. This is a punishment in administrative order, with the involvement of police structures. What's not clear? And we think that's going to be the exception as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u276	Please vote. [[13:29:48]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1340. People's deputy Birddog. Don't insist. 1342, National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u277	41.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u278	Please, 41.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u279	And give me a minute then. Dear colleagues, we're here again, what we're dealing with here. So I want to tell you, for participating in the attempt to introduce official multimanity in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and to establish a constitutional procedure. It's all fiction. The Constitution, on the other hand, supports multiplicity, supports, is permissible. Read articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, which explicitly states: It supports, protects, and allows the development of the identity of others, the identity of other behaviors, and customs. Read what we're talking about in this experiment, in this norm and in this sixth. Of course, it's unconstitutional, but it's bluffing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u280	Please, this amendment is taken into account. Do you insist on putting her on confirmation? I just want to understand that viewers and audiences also understand that this is an amendment of the national deputy Shufrich and the national deputy of Germany, their proposal that was taken into account, and they now demand that it be removed. Please vote. [[13:31:47]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1342. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u281	The presiding lady, well, there should apply the term provided for by the Rules, as to whether to remove or do anything else, and what to record. But I want to say about paragraph 7. Look at what's being suggested: "acquiring the legal force with an indictment against him." Ladies and gentlemen, this is not even a law school, but it's already first-class, and it's not even a law school that the defendants have their own convictions for their actions. And by their status they have, it's intentional action or recklessness. And so throughout the world, peace practice says, and we have laws that determine that a person who has unintentionally committed a crime that falls within the qualifications of a criminal offence cannot be cut down, restricted in professional activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u282	Please vote. [[13:33:19]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1343. Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, when we speak about Ukrainian citizenship and speak about such a person as the authorized one to defend the national language, do you think about what the Authorized Authority is for the protection of the national language? This is when we have police structures, when we have special prosecutors, when we have the Attorney General, what methods does he have to defend the Ukrainian language? The word "protection" implies active action, and so when we talk about what citizens are allowed to do for active action, we come from the fact that they are Ukrainian citizens. If it is not a citizen of Ukraine, it is a imported bagel that cannot be authorized. And so we come up with these questions that should be excluded at all, apriors are not allowed to allow these situations, but you say, insinuations on the side.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u284	Please vote. [[13:34:48]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1344. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, it is a matter of declaring him dead. Let's take a look at this situation. We, let's talk about the living, the living. Look at how many ministers we don't have in office: two, three years from now, there are no ministers, and that's a problem. And that's the problem. Look at the medical reform, look at the responsibilities of both the environment, the agricultural sector, and health. And that's why we think it should be ruled out. This is not to be allowed at all, and it is to be expected, you can imagine that it is authorized to announce it and to recognize it as a person who has died to wait at least six months. Which is why I'm asking you to rule it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u286	Please vote. [[13:36:17]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The next amendment, 1345, is the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u287	Dear colleagues, I've already said that we're essentially going to the rivers of feudal society, feudal legal regulation at the time of relations, they were, and it sounded like we can only do what the feud predicted in its law to make it clear. Sadly, our initiators of this law have followed this path. They overheat the law with phenomena that bear no burden to accept it, coming out of reality. And that's why we think that in this part too, you have to rule out, you can't refer to the institution that's authorized. Well, let's face it, let's go down to Chief ŽEKu or the garage manager, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u288	Please vote. [[13:37:45]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Amendment 1346. Please, National Deputy Germano.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u289	Dear colleagues! Germany, Platform for Life. I want them to understand what this is all about, and I want them to know that, authorized by the protection of the state language, they're asking them to recognize him as non-State officials and at the same time give him the status of minister. Well, first of all, write down that the authorized person is a political figure, he's a political person, and it's not subject to labour legislation. Do you know that? If you do not know, read the laws, and you will find that it does not extend to ministers. And you write "on terms of pay and social security compared to a minister's office." We already know the profits of Minister Koboljev about, he's also a minister. Please tell me, what difference does it make? And that's all you write is from the wicked one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u290	Deputy Germano, Mr. Kobolev is not a minister, to your knowledge, he is the head of the state company. Please vote. [[13:39:31]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1347. National MP Pisarenko. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u291	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out the substance of my amendments concerning the Authorized Authority in matters of national language. Even though the law is directed against the Ukrainians and against all those living in Ukraine, because many things are imposed, I think the Constitutional Court will then establish the unconstitutionality of these rules. But what I want to point out is that they're re-establishing bureaucratic structures that will again take care of issues that are sufficiently blurry and corruption will flourish again. Because the authorized one is created for certain functions that are not very important, it offers the Kabminu proposals, it provides monitoring, it deals with complaints from natural persons, and then it sets up protocols, and it implements mergers in cases established by law, it controls officials, how they use the Ukrainian language, that is, it creates a superorganism over all government authorities, which will control how people use language. Your Honor, stop, don't make a bureaucratic device to control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u292	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u293	Dear colleague Pisarenko, but, well, very often our rhetoric does not match the content of the amendments, because you are proposing to exclude article 48 "Victory incompatibilities with the position of Authorized for the protection of Ukrainian language." Yes, but this. No, you suggest that this article in this amendment be deleted. We're talking about the substance of the amendment. If we rule out, this is exactly what will contribute to the corruption of the authorized one, because the authorized one performs a number of important functions to protect the state status of the Ukrainian language, the State must be interested in doing only state tasks. Therefore, the requirement of incompatibility was left to the committee, and this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u294	Thank you. Please be sure, 1347 revisions. [[13:41:51]] For the four of us. The next amendment is 1348. Please turn on the microphone, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u295	Dear colleagues, of course, this rudimentary body is itself authorized, and all the more so in the text that is written there, you just read about the incompatibility with the position of Commissioner for the Protection of State Language. You also wrote in the preceding article: A violation of the requirements of incompatibility. What's wrong? Who is this organ? What burden does he bear other than reprisals? Any action aimed at restricting willfulness and freedom, including speech, is nothing more than repression. And he's going to have some other people at his disposal who are going to work in every area, and they're going to make protocols, starting with caffeine, a bath and all. and national gatherings. And that's why we think we need to rule out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u296	Thank you. I'd like to make my mark on line 1348. [[13:43:25]] For 1 The next amendment is 1,350, and so is the national deputy of Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u297	First of all, I'd like to hear when I speak for the representative mandate and everything else, I'd like to hear the answer, who calculated who calculated the cost of putting this law into effect. Who calculated before submitting to the Supreme Council? It is the responsibility of the initiator and the subject of the legislative initiative to justify materially what this law will cost Ukraine. I'm sure no one has counted it. Where do you get the amount of that money? How much is that going to cost? And where is the question of what mechanism, starting with the formation of a payroll fund and ending with a material base? You don't have it, and you can't have it because the law is prepared through the coves. Please turn it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u298	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u299	Well, the substance of the amendment that was mentioned by a colleague of Germany, a colleague of Germany, suggests that one word should not be deleted: Since the three words "authorized" can't be ruled out:" from our point of view, it's illogical, because there are still points that predict that there will be no incompatibility in the position of the Authorized for the protection of Ukrainian language, obviously the committee did not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u300	Thank you. Let's go. Ah, we vote for this amendment. Let's find out, 1350. [[13:45:29]] For the five of us. The next one is 1351. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u301	I'm an honourable reporter and I'd still like to give you an answer, because this is a further consideration of these amendments. If they are not supported materially and by the ability of the State Institute to provide financially, and are not budgeted, it cannot be subject to a general session of the Supreme Council in the Supreme Council Hall. Give me an answer, please. Don't back off, don't turn around, specifically. It's not in the project. Where is he? How much is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u302	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u303	Thank you. We'll go in, we'll get to that point. I would insist on going after the repairs. I think, colleague Germano, that the costs you spend to drag this bill down, putting an amendment to confirm that it votes from two to four people, are much higher, and to secure your activities than the costs that would go into creation, and will go away, and this will be provided in the future budget, a very small unit of authorized personnel, which will consist of several people to protect the Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u304	Please identify yourself for Amendment 1351. [[13:47:05]] For the four of us. The next amendment of the German National MP is 1352. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u305	Dear colleagues, with regard to his status as authorized by me, we are paying attention by requiring that this position be excluded from this article of the law, as is the whole article of the law, and we would like to take into account the situation that has been created in the future by a government body that is not justified in paying for the work. And at the same time, you can see that the question is how it should work. And to do that, they have to put it on the table in the Supreme Council Hall, at least to the chairman, what it costs and what it pours into tax payers. That's it. And so to say what I'm going to say to you then, you've been telling us for four days that there's no punishment. And I was referring to an article of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u306	I'd like to make a determination for this amendment, 1352. [[13:48:35]] For the five of us. The next amendment, this amendment is rejected, the next one is 1354. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u307	1353, just in case. 1353.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u308	It's counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u309	I want to say about what's counted and what's not counted. When it comes to accounting, they need to understand the drafters of the bill that joining the Supervisory Board today is the day that it's the day that it's the day that it's the day that it's the people, the owners, not the owners of those enterprises and everything else. And so it's less in terms of procedures, and in terms of the mechanism of legislation, it doesn't correspond to reality. And that's why we think that's going to have to be ruled out, and that's not going to do anything, and even when we apply it, because it can't be tested in the established procedure of order that is, the procedures are written.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u310	The next amendment is 1354. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u311	Now it's about partying. I'd like to say why we ask him to be expelled at all. Because we consider this to be a rudimentary body, which is authorized, which is essentially a harmful activity for society, because it acts outside the Constitution and, even more so, contrary to constitutional rules. Article 10, article 11, clearly and unconditionally protects the rights of citizens in the field of language, both national and other languages. I want to remind you once again, don't refer to the decision of the 99th Constitutional Court, it clearly states that it is regulated in matters where government authorities or local self-government are working. Please read it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u312	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u313	In this amendment, a colleague of Germany and Shufrich was asked to withdraw a rule that says that an authorized person cannot be a member of a political party. It was a matter of principle for committee members, so the attempt of colleagues of Germany and Shufrich to politicize this position was rejected by our committee. Please don't support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u314	I'd like to make a statement. [[1:51:41]] For -6 The next amendment is 1355, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u315	Thank you. My amendments relate to the total destruction of this institution so that we can remove the control and oversight body that you create as a secretariat in the form of the Authorized Authority for the Protection of State Language. The first is about the secretariat. There's no record of how many people are going to work, so I'm pretty sure there's going to be a big bureaucratic machine again. Because his function is to monitor not only all government authorities, who, as the Ukrainian language is used, but also legal persons, will be there further in your article. You will control the extent to which people use the Ukrainian language faithfully and the extent to which they use it. If it is approved in this edition, we will accordingly receive a supervisory, controlling body that will oversee all government officials — millions of people. So I'm asking you to step aside and look at what you're really creating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u316	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u317	First, the Cabinet of Ministers will determine how much money is needed for this. We predicted that this would be a small amount of money, authorized to be independent, has to have its own secretariat to provide for his work. The Authorized Secretariat structure is approved by the authorized one; this is clearly stated in the following statement, and the state code and fundraiser is the Head of the Secretariat authorized by agreement with the central executive authority, which ensures the formation of public policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u318	Thank you. And the next amendment, please, 1356. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u319	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I want to say that it's not just a supervisory body, it's an administrative repressive body. Once again, I insist on the position that is being created. is designed deliberately to eradicate Russian language and languages of national minorities -- no more, no less. And you don't have to cover up with the latent standards that you're quietly setting, and here you're saying publicly that there's no responsibility. But we have an administrative responsibility that is more difficult to sanction than for criminal acts. And that's why I'd like us to get out of the whole system, the whole institution that's authorized, including the heads of the secretariat and others, it's the anti-constitutional organs that are other than.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u320	Thank you. Please be determined by this amendment, 1356. [[13:55.]] For the five of us. The correction is being rejected. Amendment 1357, People’s Deputy Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u321	I return to the existence of such an institution as the Secretariat of the Authorized Authority for the Protection of State Language and the Authorized. Make sure that there is no doubt about it, it is an institution that will exercise State control over the use of the national language not only by state and municipal organizations, institutions and enterprises, as well as by public associations, political parties, legal persons and their officials. So there's a superstructure that's independent of ownership that's going to control how the Ukrainian language is used as a national language in these organizations. In view of the fact that there are many mandatory standards within the body of the law, a superstructure is created that not only controls but also has the right to write certain protocols, to make further recommendations, and to draw conclusions even to foreign leaders who speak the Ukrainian language. So, honourable authors, please take a look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u322	It was the amendment of the Lucenka People’s Deputy, and it was taken into account. I ask you to take it fully into account at the request of the People's Deputies of Pisarenko. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote in favour because this amendment was supported by the committee. [[13:56:45]] For-29 The next amendment is 1358. This is the amendment of the German National MP, she was rejected by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u323	"Platform for Life," Germany. Dear colleagues, I want to report and prove to you that all these institutions -- my colleague said before -- are a repressive body. And you'll see what this is, this is an organ that's created to be authorized to see it. Well, I'll tell you, Barry's resting, NCD's resting. The point is that this body will work in harmony with the police, and is authorized, empowered to apply sanctions, and itself creating delicacies that are responsible for administrative matters. This is a disaster that we have not yet known under the Ukrainian Administrative Code, which was before 1927. Take a look, you'll see how you controlled it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u324	Colleagues, please identify yourself for this amendment. [[13:58:16]] For the The correction is being rejected. The last amendment we're going to consider before I announce my break, 1361 National Deputy Germany. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u325	1360.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u326	And it was counted, 1360.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u327	Counted? And my 1361.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u328	And your 1361 doesn't count. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u329	Dear colleagues, I want a reporter now. You know, well, we're not even on the market on the Lower. When a reporter says and asks a national MP, how much money is there to keep the machine, the secretary, you write about the schedule, and you say, and there's not much. Either in the edge or in the edge or in the hill, that's what you call in Cherkishka, what you carry from the pulpit as a reporter. The question of structure, the size of the Secretariat, is a separate norm, a separate position. Read, study the uniform standards that we have in Ukraine. Turn it off, please. And we ask, don't make fun of people, because they will be subject to revision. And then I think you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u330	Please, the committee head insists on the comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u331	Yes, I bring from this rostrum, my esteemed colleague, Germany, bright, good, eternal and love for the Ukrainian language, which I want to instill in you so much that you do not fight it. Obviously, I have already answered this question that the Cabinet of Ministers after we adopt this law, and we will adopt it, no matter what you doubt, will determine the cost and the budget that will have to be put into the budget next year, when. After the law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u332	Please identify yourself for Amendment 1361. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:24]] For the
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-09-m0.u333	The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby announce a recess until 16 p.m. And I remind all of you that at 16 o'clock we will continue with you to work on the bill of operation. on the features of the Ukrainian language as a national language, and we will begin with amendment number 1362 of the German and Shufric National Deputies. Everyone, please return to the session room at 4:00 and continue our work. Thank you.
