ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u1	Dear colleagues, 16th hour, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, please come into the hall. So I'm asking you to prepare for registration. I would like to remind you that the next issue in the agenda is the staffing issue, which is the draft Decision on Klimkin's release from office as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. I see the chairman of the committee is, please also invite the representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. And I'd like everyone to prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please register. I'd like you to sign up. [[16:03:52]] 297 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before moving to the draft human resources decision, I would like to report that two factions have come to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from two factions that they are willing to replace for a break. On the show. And I'd like to invite you to Andrew Teteruk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! In summing up the work of our parliament, we can truly be proud of how many important state decisions we have made, strengthening our state, how many times we have united to correct a situation that we have not considered or corrected any of the conclusions of the Ukrainian Parliament. But the day is the last day of our work in Parliament, it should allow us to walk out of here with a proudly raised head for having been able to consider many issues. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of all the deputies who now hear me to the walls of Parliament, to the fact that today we have been looking at issues that reinforce responsibility for those criminals who commit sexual crimes against the most valuable treasure of Ukraine, our children. And we decided that after committing the crime, the appropriate bastards would get the maximum possible degree of punishment. At the same time, I sincerely believe that this is not enough because we react to what has already happened. And I want to point out that we have to create conditions when those bastards don't just use child pornography. Ukraine made a commitment, but in eighteen years, nothing has been done to prevent the spread, creation, and accumulation of child pornography. In fact, these are extremely sensitive issues that have not been resolved in our country. And my 9028 bill, which has been waiting for more than a year to be considered in the session room, has to remove the conditions in which criminals mentally form their willingness to go and commit crimes against a child when they accumulate an internal decision, looking at absolutely free, unpunished and without any restrictions on child pornography. My hair is moving on my head when I read that my own parents are using children to create porno content and they're just selling it because they're using demand. Ukraine is the only country now among all the modern democratic countries that has not developed a safety net against child pornography. I ask you very much, Mr. Head, your fellow national MPs, to be included in the 9028 agenda today. It's an extremely simple but effective bill that will allow our cyberpolice, all of our law enforcement agencies to make and have safeguards to ensure that child pornography is created, preserved and distributed among those consumers who then use it to plan sexual crimes against children. I'm very much asking you to make this decision today so that you don't regret the unacceptable decisions on these very sensitive issues. Thank you very much for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u3	Thank you. So we go to the draft Klimkin Liberation Order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine (No. 10381). I'll put the first sentence to the vote -- to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:08:09]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Let us move on to the full discussion procedure. And I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Stefan Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u4	Good day, Reverend Head, distinguished national MPs. The president of Ukraine is called upon to implement policies related to international relations. And we see that, unfortunately, today, we are not able to build that mechanism to give it all the important influence on foreign policy relations. This is primarily due to the inability to fully exercise the competence conferred upon him in connection with the presence of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovich. Therefore, according to article 85, part 12, part 1, of the Constitution, paragraph 3, of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council the application for the release of Klimkin Paul Anatoliyovich from the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The decision is supported, including by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so please support it in the Hall, although I do not see who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u5	Thank you. So, colleagues, here's the question. Because the MPs came up to me and asked me what you were proposing to Pristik. Will he fall under the Law of Illustration, or will he not? [[B in m in s a l in]] And the MPs are confused. And I'm asking five minutes to ask. Please hold the recording. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u6	Please welcome Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u7	I give the word to Svetlana Zlatchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u8	Svetlana Zlatchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u9	Good afternoon. I would like to ask the President's representative in Parliament about the situation that has arisen in the context of the liberation of sailors. We saw Minister Klimkin's statement. A note by Minister Klimkin, who sent it to Russia. At the same time, we saw that President Zelensky did not agree with such a note, he did not know it existed. So what I want to ask you is, how did this kind of uncoordinated thing happen? Why was this question not coordinated? Why were internal communication channels not used? Instead, the situation became so. It actually made our image worse in the world and in the middle of Ukraine. This has led to many questions. Why does our foreign policy take place in this way?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u10	Please, Mr. Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u11	Thank you. I think that the answer to this question should primarily be to someone who has failed to take steps that are provided by valid legislation to shape this foreign policy. And I am deeply convinced that, in principle, there is such an inability to do something internal, I don't know, to cooperate with the Minister with the President and have invited us to contact the Supreme Council with a request to submit an application for Mr. Klimkin's release. So in more detail, I think this question could be asked by Mr. Klimkin's current minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, we have for the first time a representative of the new team. Let's be kind, my friends. Let us be kind. And please, Mr. Ivan Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u13	I'm already here, yes, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u14	You're not like that. Because people are about to start asking hard questions. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u15	Ariev, Ariev. Please pass the word to Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u16	Mr. Volodymyr, please. Vladimir Ariev
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u17	Well, we, of course, when we release the foreign minister, we have to appoint a new foreign minister, and Mr. Vadim Pristajko, introduced. But today, President Zelensky said that all officials from 14th to 19th years, including the people's deputies, should be illustrated. Mr. Vadim Pristajko was an effective first Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine until 2017. So it turns out that according to the logic of the President who introduced it, he should then be illustrated. I have a question: what does the President have with a logically-effectual relationship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u18	Thank you for asking. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u19	Dear colleagues, it's interesting to hear the answer. Please, please, Mr. Ruslan, we'll listen, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u20	I think the final answer we're going to see after the Supreme Council gets the draft law that we're talking about, evaluates it, supports it, and only then can we talk about whether it's in the legal field or not. But I strongly believe that if we support this, we will have absolute compliance with all the norms and regulations that are in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll add three minutes of questions. But in keeping with the question of respectable Vladimir Ariev. I'll give you my word, we'll leave those three minutes for questions of the national MPs. Mr. Ruslane, does this mean that after the adoption of the Book of Illustration Act in the form in which the President's team and the "ministers of the people" are now seen, Mr. Daniluk, Mr. Abromavicus and other distinguished members of the new President of Greene's team, and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u22	In terms of this position, I can say one thing: we have no questions related to the President's team. Is that a question or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u23	Yeah, that's the question. Mr. Markevich is just nervous that he won't be able to ask a question. You'll have a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u24	There is no question as to whether it is the President’s team or whether it is the President’s team. If supported by the Supreme Council of this law, it will extend to all persons, regardless of what team they are in. And this is the question to the Supreme Council whether this legislative initiative will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u25	Thank you for the complete explanation. We hope he was heard by Mr. Danieluk as well as by Mr. Abromavichus. Please, the next question. Oh, and Mr. Leschenko, yes. Please, Mr. Kishkaru, next question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u26	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u27	Please, Mr. Krivenk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u28	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. I have a simple question. First. We also supported and voted for Mr. Klimkin. And I've heard of Mr. Pristyka's normal human responses. And I'm going to have a question, but I've talked to you before, and I wanted us to confirm this conversation publicly, too, because everything has to be clear and public. 62 national deputies of all factions: both opposition, and pervasive, and non-fractional - signed under the Plastic Bill. Father Boris Gudzak, the Catholic Church, head of the Care Council, I am a member of the Care Council, from our Orthodox Church of Ukraine is also the ruler of Nestor Ternopilsky and Kamyanec-Podilsky, Ambassador of Canada to Ukraine Roman Vaschuk, also in the Care Council, also in plastic. A great request to speed up the signing of this bill because it is hypersensitive. It's very important for us to have a patriotic upbringing. I think you'll agree with me that if it had been 91 years ago, there would have been no war in the East.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u29	Thank you. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u30	My answer will be exactly what I told you. I will make every effort to ensure that the consideration and signing of this law is in full compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u31	Thank you. Three more questions. Please, Mr. Markevich, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u32	Mrs. Stotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u33	Please, Mrs. Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u34	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I'll try to get the discussion back on track. Tell me, please, you're making this submission, more specifically, the President is making this submission. Did you succeed in hearing a report from Mr. Klimkin about his foreign ministership? Are there certain conclusions? I understand that, if the President is making an application for his release, there is a conclusion that there is a disgruntled job. If so, please report to Parliament, because Mr. Klimkin did not appear here, we have never heard the report, but what was the result of his work as a basis for this submission to the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u35	Thank you. As far as cooperation is concerned, the President, as far as I know, has not been able to communicate with Mr. Klimkin on matters relating to his report. And that is the reason why the lack of cooperation gives the President of Ukraine every reason to turn to the Supreme Council for this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u36	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u37	I have a few short questions. In principle, you have already evaluated the work of a former minister, almost former Minister Klimkin. But literally on the last day of the President's term of office, Minister Klimkin presented to the then President of Dusty a presentation on the assignment of the ranks of extraordinary and full-fledged ambassadors, including some of the national MPs who asked you questions. First, will the practice of assigning such titles by the President continue? Do you think Mr. Pristajko, if elected, will make similar submissions to the President by giving diplomatic rank to people who have nothing to do with it? Please give me a very short answer. And the third short question, if you can. As the representative of the President of the Supreme Council who you see as the President's priorities in foreign policy, which will be implemented by Minister Pristajko if he is appointed?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u38	Thank you. Thank you for asking. On the question that you may have asked, the answer will be that there will be no action that would be contrary to the rules of current legislation, and the actions that you have been talking about are clearly in conflict with current legislation, and they will not, I hope, be the next foreign minister, Mr. Pristik, or the President of Ukraine in part of foreign political activity. And so we are deeply convinced that such shameful practices will not be followed. This is not what we want to take into the new parliament and into new governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u39	Thank you. Friends, last question. Please, Borislav Bereza, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u40	Mr. Ruslan, I would like to ask you as a representative of the Ukrainian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It happened that until the beginning of our delegation’s session, Mr. Klimkin had not met us for reasons that were not clear to us. Moreover, he was invited, but he did not meet. So did Mr. Zelensky. He hasn't met us either. After our return and our delegation's official statement that we need to work out a format for future cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly, we need to meet representatives of the delegation, the President and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but neither the President nor the Minister have met us. Can we expect that in the event of the election of Mr. Pristajk, who is an experienced man and expert, we will be able to meet in the format of Mr. Minister, Mr. President and delegates of the Parliamentary Assembly? Because time is running out, and the question of PARJE is still pending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u41	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u42	Thank you for your attention. I have repeatedly stated that regardless of our different internal political views on the outer arena, we should act as a team whose name is Ukraine. I am deeply convinced that if Mr. Pristajk is supported by the Supreme Council, such cooperation will be assured. Because even though the President is responsible for this direction, today he does not have an effective mechanism to implement it. Therefore, whenever I ask the Supreme Council to allow President Volodymyr Zelenski to have an effective mechanism to implement his powers in the field of foreign policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u43	Mr. Ruslan, thank you. You can return to your seat on the rostrum of a guest bed, a guest bed, more loyal. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion on our personnel issue right now. Oh, I'm sorry. Guys, I'm sorry. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanni Hopko. I'm sorry, Mrs. Hanna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u44	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The committee discussed this issue, particularly by supporting Klimkin’s decision to release him from his post as foreign minister, as well as his appointment as Vadim Pristajka as future foreign minister. This is a committee decision and therefore, given how many people are in the room today, I realize that there will be a lack of votes again. But, in principle, I think that at a time when there are many challenges, it is necessary for a full-fledged foreign minister and so that we can properly represent the state of Ukraine in the world. Colleagues, over the past five years after the Dignity Revolution, when we met in the temporary elections with you in the session room, I would like to thank everyone who made their contribution by working in various parliamentary assemblies (or the OSCE, or NATO, or the Council of Europe) to really protect our interests as one national assembly. We've done a lot. We worked to strengthen Ukraine’s subjectivity in order to keep separate from the Kremlin’s plans that failed, such as Novorosia and the desire to draw Kharkiv, Dnipro, and Odessa away from us. So I wanted in the next call, in independence, which parties would represent MPs or non-fractional parties, we would all work as one national assembly. And that's what's supposed to strengthen Ukraine in the world, not allowing our even some Western partners to use weakness institutionally, as well as conflicts between different MPs, in their interests. Which we have also succeeded in these years. We've worked very hard with you as cultural diplomacy, external economics. We fought to stop the North Stream 2 and now we're doing our best. In particular, there has been a recent visit to Washington, and there is already a decision by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Congress. So we're close and we're making an effort to really stop the North Stream-2. I want to tell you there are no breaks in foreign policy. We have to protect our national interests continuously, despite the fact that there was a presidential campaign, there are now parliamentary elections for the term. This is the moment when this composition of Parliament, and in particular today in the committee, we have adopted a call to the newly elected MEPs, where we will talk clearly about the threats of Russian rematch on the continent of Europe. So I'd like to wish the President, I'd wish the future minister, I'd wish the future parliament would remember that the Kremlin's plans and their representatives, the Fifth Column, they put the Russian script into practice every day. At a time when we don't seem to have a clear defense plan, but we should have a plan of attack. And in this vocation, you and I have approved a motion to condemn the Russian Federation, which violates the rights of indigenous peoples in the territory of the Russian Federation. These are the representatives of Idell-Ural (Devil) who, in the 14th year, condemned the actions of the Putin regime when the Kremlin attacked Ukraine. Also, colleagues, I'd like to tell you that in Toronto last week (not the capital of Canada) President Zelenski, when speaking in front of the business, said very clearly: Invest in Ukraine. Because in these last years, even though it's been difficult, but we've stabilized the economy, GDP is increasing. So I would like to go to President Zelensky and tell him that he should thank the Parliament for this convening, the government and the President who came before us for stabilizing the economy. Because Janukovic left us a country in debt and took out billions. We managed to do so. And when Greensky says in Toronto, "invest in Ukraine, because a stable economy, it's working powerfully at the National Bank," it's our job with you. And so before you point to someone, you have to thank them for what it is to brag about abroad right now and call on investors. And I don’t think it’s a matter of finding a relationship right now. And the question of how to fight those who want to destroy Ukraine. And that's why my call to all the citizens who are now at various concerts forgets about the various new political projects that are in the state. And so my colleagues, I would like to say, really, that there are still many challenges. In this vocation, we have carried out a great effort to honor those who have died until the 85th anniversary. We continue to fight for the recognition of the Holocaust by genocide, and the petition collected is in the German Bundestag. And that's got to go on. I hope that the German historical responsibility to Ukraine will be manifested in specific sanctions, a specific firm position against the North Stream-2, not Ukraine's surrender, as it did on the return of Russia to South Africa. So, dear friends, I thank you all for these incredible five years. I thank the Lord for the opportunity to serve Ukraine and each of you for being able to resist the key threats. And the next call I want to make is to make us a profit and a result for the country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Anna, please stay in the rostrum. Colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for Mrs. Hanna Hopko's question. And we would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its hostess for the great work you have done to support Ukraine at the international level and to consolidate our efforts in this direction. Please, Mr. Sverk, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u46	Unfortunately, it has happened that I have not been able to ask the representative of the President, and I would like to refer this question to Mrs. Hanni. If the new President invites us to appoint Mr. Pristajk as Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is currently working as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Klimkin, that means that the international policy that this bloc has been leading for the past five years is recognized as a new President as a quality and one that needs to be continued. From your point of view, is that so?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u47	First. For this call, we have made an effort to increase the funding and the material and technical provision of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I hope that this will be reflected in the 2020 budget. The other one. Diplomats should not be the victims of one president, another president, because they are professional people working to protect national interests. And there are a lot of ambassadors who are currently working in the ministry who have worked for other presidents who are protecting Ukraine. And so I would like both Vadim Pristajko and the rest to continue to work with the best experts and to grow new ones so that through the Law on the Diplomatic Service, which we approved, social elevators were created for new ones, but, at the same time, those who have institutional memory, those who know how to protect, who have different details of the talks and so on, they were in this system because they were loyal. And really, this principle -- "nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine," has to be practically embodied. And without the game of national assembly, when we help each other: the Parliament of the President, the President of Parliament and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, nothing will work. We'll be "divorced" if we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u48	Thank you for your answer. Please, National Deputy Musai, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u49	Dear reporter, Mrs. Hanna, can you please tell us how you feel about gravity, a notion that, unfortunately, is not available in the Ukrainian government today, especially the administrative one? Because Mr. Klimkin is going on some incomprehensible "political vacation" instead of handing all matters over to the new minister, regardless of what political power he'll be from. So it turns out that Mr. Klimkin's own ambitions, his own interests because of political relevance -- because, you see, he's close to Peter Prashenko, not close to President Zelenski -- puts Ukraine's political interests ahead. And in fact, this political pull would have to be initiated by all ministers, all governments, including the Supreme Council. Your opinion of such a tradition of moral-ethical plane as to the gravity of power and the transfer of your affairs to others. the successors of the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u50	Thank you very much. I think that the institutional memory that many diplomats possess, and the experience that is, those personal contacts that have been worked in various positions, should be passed on. And I very much hope that at the MCZ with the new headmaster we will finally see the appointed first deputy, we will see additional substitutes who will be professionally and continuously working with the future Committee on Foreign Affairs. Because very often there was a lack of presence, such as the minister or his deputies, but there was a secretary. So it's very important in the next call to have a separate person from the MSI who will cooperate with the committee. Also, colleagues, apart from these personnel issues, which are important, me and our committee, we're going to pass on all the work that is, to the next MPs, with some of us already as candidates to negotiate so that the gains that are in parliamentary assemblies so that they can immediately come, and this transition period to adaptation, it doesn't have a negative impact on defending our interests in the international arena. So I think we need to pass on this experience and we need to treat professional diplomats very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u51	Thank you. Please ask the following question, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine We certainly support the President's desire to gain the full power that Mr. Ruslan spoke of, and by our vote we confirm it, we will vote for Mr. Pristajk, and this time, our position remains unchanged. Thank you for your professional work and, of course, we look forward to productive work in the future. I personally, well, I have an internal dilemma, because linking the setting up of playgrounds and benches with international activity is hard enough, and I was a representative of the state of Ukraine on more than 20 international trips: both at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, and at the International Parliamentary Assembly, and in association with NATO funds, and in the scouting at Harmish we had quite decent international meetings. I want to know how people react. I don't think people notice this job. And to you, Mrs. Hanna, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u53	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u54	Our question is, I think the future minister will hear me too. We've had a problem with the appointment of ambassadors, and it remains open now, and in those countries, for example Denmark, when we weren't ready for the international meetings that the Danish Republic held in Copenhagen. I think this question is urgent right now and the future minister has it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u55	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u56	Good afternoon, dear fellows! You know that battle that was in this room when we voted in favour of the Law on the Diplomatic Service when we adopted the rule there, in particular, the return of the practice of conducting prior consultations with a recommending nature during the appointment of ambassadors. Unfortunately, it was then dedicated to Dusty, and as a committee we sent a letter to President Zelenski. And we got an answer from the office. On Bogdan's signature that they are not ready and are not going to return the previous consultation with a recommendation, but are planning to leave everything behind, as Janukovic cancelled in 2010, effectively removing parliamentary control, which is an opportunity to hold interviews in a closed mode during the appointment of ambassadors. So I very much hope that this decision was a mistake, and they will review and make changes to the approved Law on Diplomatic Service. I agree that many of the ambassadors' rotations have not taken place over the past five years, and I very much hope that this approach, when there are different decision-making centers -- at the Bank's or there's the Ministry of Finance and so on -- will not be applied further. And that's a lot of ambassadors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u57	Please finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u58	And I very much hope that there will be a rotation in line with the new Diplomatic Service Act. Ambassadors of eight or 12 years may not remain in a foreign diplomatic institution, such as the Vatican or others. This should long be changed and, apparently, new ones should be assigned where there are vacancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u59	Mrs. Hanna, we thank you once again for your report. Thank you, you can go back to your workplace. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for the factions to exchange our thoughts. And I very much ask the leaders of the MPs to invite MPs into the hall, because today we have a staff decision to make. This will be very and very correct. Please, National Deputy Chizmar. Who's gonna come out of the Radical Party faction? You? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u60	Yuri Chizmar. Taking advantage of the opportunity that we have today, I take it, the future foreign minister, is the President's representative in Parliament, and I would like to raise the question, because it will probably be before the next summons, before the next five years, the question of persons who now have second citizenship. To date, we know that more than a million Ukrainians have more than one Ukrainian citizenship. They did so, not out of goodwill, but, of course, mainly labor workers who went to the European Union today and were able to legalize themselves there in order to have a decent salary. I think that the myths that tell us and tell us over the years that it's a threat to national security don't in any way match reality. We remember well, for example, the Canadian diaspora, which supports Ukraine’s position quite strongly. And if it had not been for Ukraine in Canada, Canada would not have stood up for 28 years and would not have been the first country to recognize Ukraine. And they're willing to have second Ukrainian citizenship, but without being deprived of Canadian citizenship. We know well that our employees today are hiding their status and thus succumbing to labour fraud in the European Union. We would like to join the European Union, but we fear that our citizens will have citizenship in Germany, Spain, Italy, Canada, the United States. Why? No problem, but we've put over a million Ukrainians outside the law. To this day, they received legal employment, legal pensions in the European Union. This is an opportunity to legally move away from all workers and to have social status, and not to be afraid of having property that is purchased at legal expense and used in Ukraine and thus avoid double taxation. I believe that today we have come to the point where we can consider, but with the limitations that apply, let's say, to politicians. Because we are aware that representatives of the people in Parliament, in Kabmin, in the Presidential Administration cannot have dual citizenship. But for others, it is probably unnecessary. So I suggest you consider the rules of law that would make it impossible to deprive citizens of property, social and political rights that they own other than Ukrainian citizenship. This is a mature question, and I think it needs to be raised today. So when I take this opportunity, I ask the next minister and representatives of the President's Administration to raise this issue in society and perhaps in the next Parliament to consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u61	Thank you. And Olga Belkova is invited to the floor. Please, Mrs. Ola. She's presenting the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block." Mrs. Belkovy, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. President! Your Honour, the ambassador and perhaps the future minister! Dear colleagues! I would like to take this opportunity to address our listeners and all of you with such a statement. I am extremely proud to have been a member of this office and have had the opportunity to represent Ukraine in the OSCE delegations, in the NATO delegation, in the Peter Poroshenko delegation and so on. It seems to me that there are a lot of unnecessary thoughts today that the work of this same cadence, especially in its external political dimension, is kind of irrelevant. Let me remind you, we've accomplished a lot. And it would be very sad to see if the next cadence would take and just cross over our acquisitions at the same time. However, Ukraine has an extremely large number of challenges. I'd like to speak to you today, too, Mr. President, to draw your attention. Ukraine has a huge energy security challenge. "North Stream 2" was in the agenda of this office, in many delegations, in the order of the day's previous President. I'd like the President of today and you and all the colleagues of the President's Office to pay attention to this problem. Today, in fact, Ukraine is left without a signed contract with Gazprom. It's not just a question, let's say, of income for Ukraine. I'd like you to understand that this is not a matter of cooperation between Naftogaz and Gazprom. This is a matter that requires the involvement of both the President and the Prime Minister, as well as a number of deputies working in this room and working after us. Today, this is not only a matter of transit and $3 billion a year, but also a matter of real security. This cadence, including with the help of many of today's deputies, has achieved what has been adopted and resolutions in the OSCE, in South Africa, have been condemned for building the North Stream, but we have not been able to complete this work. I urge you to take this job, to join the President and at all international meetings to urge our European colleagues to see the seriousness of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u63	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ivan Krulko, present the position of Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u64	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106, which clearly stipulates that the President of Ukraine is leading foreign political activities in Ukraine. If the President of Ukraine is in charge of foreign policy, what might be the basis for the session room not to go to the President's office regarding the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Klimkin and the appointment of the Foreign Minister who brought the President? That's the logic of the process. And it seems to me that, regardless of any opposition, no objections, we have a Ukrainian state, that the foreign political authorities should be guided, especially in a situation where the acting minister Klimkin wrote an application for exemption when the acting minister Klimkin no longer wants to work as foreign minister. And what's more, there's gone the reason they said in this session room, said, and where's the President's application for a new foreign minister. It's done. That's why I think, and this is the position of the faction that we should now vote in favour of Mr. Klimkin's release from the post of Foreign Minister. Moreover, to my conviction, the latest actions of Minister Klimkin, when President Dustenk's office in the last days were submitted to the National Deputies to assign them the names of extraordinary and valid ambassadors, I believe this is groundless, it is questionable from the point of view of the law. And this once again confirms that we should vote on the issue of Klimkin's release. And I would like to remind those MPs who so wanted to be extraordinary and full-fledged ambassadors, but the President introduced Mr. Pristajk. And you know that the man who worked as ambassadors, and his last job was the representative of Ukraine at NATO, doesn't have a Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador? He is an outstanding and powerful messenger. Is it not a shame to assign special ambassadors to the deputies, and staff diplomats have waited years for such titles, giving their jobs professionally in office?Oh, my God! So I think this practice has to be stopped. Now we have to solve the issue of how foreign policy is managed. And we, as a warring country, when we have so many geopolitical challenges, cannot afford such a great luxury that such a long period of time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have a full-fledged minister, but the ministers work in the status of the so-called so-called U.S.O. This is completely wrong. So "Paternity" will vote in favour of this issue as well as for the appointment of a new candidate to serve as foreign minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u65	Thank you. Please welcome the National MP, Mr. Germanko Vasil. Please, Mr. Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u66	Dear colleagues! "The Opposition Platform for Life," Germany. I went out to this rostrum to share with you and to provide information that we are the great state in Europe itself. I repeat: the great nation of Europe itself. And what we've heard today is rhetoric, when the outside department is speaking here, where rhetoric is predicting action, I'd like to say what we're deciding today. And today we're essentially shaping an external vector of our nation's development, and today we haven't heard from the committee head that we're actually today in a number of unwelcome people. You see, from Romania to the Russian Federation through the Baltic. And we'll see. What, are we gonna see each other's friendships? We don't see who's our obstacle, and who's the one who put out the barons to get us into Europe as equals? Then I wanted to say that this is precisely why there is a causal link: the activity of the director of the external service, which is Mr. Klimkin. We didn't come up with you, but we came up with countries in Europe to point out that we are essentially discriminated against by national minorities. This began with the handing over of the minister of foreign affairs. I'd like to say one more thing. You look at today, when we started working under the auspices of Mr. President Poshenko, we worked for almost four years without ambassadors in the world's most famous and great nations. Mr. President has concluded on himself all these actions. And we see what we have. The other one. You see, we haven't seen any external action on economic relations. Today, a trade agreement has already been signed by Paraguay, Argentina. And what you think is that they have 42 billion trades with an imbalance of 6 billion, and they're going to go to Europe where we're going to be on our quotas. And this is the pure and direct work of our diplomatic corps, which must work. So I also support that we have a head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Basil. Thank you. And please, from the Self-Help faction. 30 seconds, please, Mr. German, another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u68	30 seconds. And our president came to us. So let's understand that, by virtue of the Constitution, with the trust of the people, he decides on the question of the formation of human resources policies in the state. Let's get out of this. And this is the guarantee of our success.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u69	Please, Mrs. Ostrick Tetjana. It represents the position of the Self-Help faction. Colleagues, and we have one statement left from groups and factions, then six minutes from the deputies, and we're going to vote. I'm asking for mobilization and a return to the session room. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u70	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues. The president filed for the release of Mr. Klimkin, Mr. Pristajk. And, of course, we have to support this, because it's his constitutional authority, and there's no discussion here, it has to be supported. But there's no one to vote, because we have as many as 50 people in the room, no more. And so I'd like to talk more then about what I would expect from Mr. Pristik in office, actually, the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Now everybody's fighting smuggling, breaking customs rules, customs schemes, because. Well, indeed, customs administrations over 40 percent of the government budget's income. And unfortunately, when it comes to international contracts in the customs business, more than 200 international agreements have been made today in the customs business. But it should be said that they are not doing very well, and this is very important, especially for administrative assistance in preventing the investigation and termination of customs offences, the exchange of customs statistics, the exchange of prior customs information, customs clearance of transit cargo, the verification of the validity of the declared value of goods, the mutual recognition of the separate results of customs control of goods and means of transport, the mutual recognition of customs documents and customs services. Specifically, honourable colleagues, for example, with China, with the People's Republic of China, are almost non-implemented, they are virtually not responding to requests from our monitoring body, the State Fiscal Service, for goods that follow from the People's Republic of China. In this regard, I would ask that the MCC authorize consultations with the Chinese side on the implementation of the Inter-Governmental Agreement between Ukraine and the PRC on mutual assistance in customs matters and the interim protocol between Ukraine and the PRC on mutual assistance in verifying the validity of the declared value of the goods. Mr. Pristajko may need to think about and introduce the office of customs attachés in large countries such as China. And here I would like to have this kind of synergy that you have in the future of the ministry and customs, the tax service that is now being created in the process of reform that we've been trying to achieve, and it's finally being done now. And the second thing I'd like to say. I also had the great privilege of representing Parliament and representing Ukraine at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Despite the presence of the Russian delegation, colleagues, we were able to adopt eight resolutions. And literally last week, our delegation got the approval of the Crimea militarization resolution and the urgent return call to Russia for an immediate return to Ukraine of Ukrainian sailors. And even though Russia was returned to Paris, the Russian delegation to the OSCE, it had already, you know, felt this spirit of Strasbourg, and thought that it already had everything in its pocket and that question solved. I would very much like the work we were doing to be appreciated as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u71	Please, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u72	and these gains were continued, the course, the strategic direction, because all the countries present at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly supported Ukraine, supported the Ukrainian delegation. There's the word "aggressor," where everyone understands who Russia is, there everyone understands that it was Russia that occupied Ukrainian territory. And that's what made it possible for us to adopt eight appropriate resolutions, which is very important for international recognition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u73	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague. Guys, I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion by the national MPs. Likewise, from the Presidium to thank our delegations to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to our other inter-parliamentary delegations, who, in fact, during the cadence of the Supreme Council on the eighth vocation, spoke with one voice, despite perhaps differences within the country, severely defending Ukraine's national interests. Thank you all very much. These were the best international delegations in Parliament. Please, Vladislav Doub, our, by the way, delegate to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u74	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Well, first of all, the legal aspect. I believe that, given the situation of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, we can treat one person differently, but this is the President's right to file for the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Just like him and the right to submit the candidature he sees as minister. As far as Mr. Klimkin is concerned. I personally thought this was one of President Dustenk's greatest human resources mistakes. Well, maybe that's why he didn't change. Because the situation that's been taking place in particular and in the foreign policy sphere of the last five years has been a success in some ways, but in most cases it has been a failed foreign policy, starting with our multilateral external relations as well as at the bilateral level, to be proud of us is, unfortunately, little. But I want to say one more thing. Klimkin is a professional diplomat. "I, by the way, offer him to stay on my team because we have a very difficult international situation and he knows about it" -- President Zelensky, June 5th, air "1+1." So there's something I can't understand when President Zelensky's representative says whether there was an interaction between Mr. Zelensky, President Zelensky and Mr. Klimkin, whether or not Mr. Klimkin was asked to remain on the team of President Zelenski or not. And another little trailer, given that Mr. Stefanchuk is here. You know, you're a lawyer, and so far you haven't become a politician, because you haven't yet been elected a national deputy, you're probably going to be an MP for the next call. Please advise the President of Ukraine to examine the ECHR practice, in particular the European Court of Human Rights rulings, which are required to be implemented in the territory of our country, regarding the topic of illustration regarding election positions, so that we do not have to blush in the international arena who would not be the minister of foreign affairs. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u75	It's just that you probably have a bad sense of humor. I think it was a joke. You see, all the promises were made that it was a joke from the new president: both about the tariffs and about the good minister Klimkin. Please, now, the head of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Oksana Jurinec, to whom we also thank. Thank you for her active work in the international arena. Your question. Oxani Jurinac, please, microphone. Don't turn it off, it's not drawn yet. Please, Mrs. Oksani's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u76	Thank you very much, Madam Chairman. 117 constituency, city of Lviv, Oksana Jurinec. It is of particular importance to me, Mr. Vadim Pristajko, that this position proposed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs will be yours. I hope that this work of Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine will continue. Because it's very important to us that these two repertoires that we did with parliamentary diplomacy are the autumn session of October 14 that will take place in London. As a Parliamentary delegation of the NATO Assembly, we recently held the Inter-Parliamentary Council of Ukraine, NATO, in Lviv, where 13 representatives of NATO member countries and the President of the NATO Assembly were present. I know that a letter has been sent to you from the President of the NATO Assembly to the President of Ukraine. It is very important to maintain this course and continue this work together. In fact, many decisions are made by parliamentary assemblies. As we can see, if the work goes badly or there isn't something going on with countries that are supposed to form a pro-Ukrainian coalition, we understand that where we have work done, there are qualitative indicators. It would be very important to multiply it and keep it going. And I want to pay particular attention to you for 2020, this is spring. In fact, this is the scale of the action that will take place for the first time in the history of Ukraine, in NATO history, it is, it will be very attracted to the attention of all countries. This is more than 550 delegates who are to arrive in Ukraine. So clearly, no electoral process, no election results have to influence where our country wants to go. And we clearly understand that today's number one question for all Ukrainians is security. Safety is now possible exclusively in the North Atlantic Alliance. Because we need to understand that in a hybrid war we can win when we are either a member of NATO or a member of the European Union. So, believe me, your front, the diplomatic front, is very important. And we understand that you have a special mission here. We're MPs who worked for this period of time, and we're formerly Ivan Klimpush-Cincadze, and Irina Friz, and today I've been assigned to complete this work. It's very important that you take advantage of all these contacts, especially the attention of countries like Canada today, the United States, Britain, the Baltic countries, we can still have results. We all want the Euro-Atlantic membership of Ukraine. Ukraine is ready today, for the first time in history, our special unit has already been certified, not even by NATO member countries. And for a moment, Croatia, as a NATO member today, has fewer standards than Ukraine today. That's why we have something to be proud of over the past five years in the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. Thank you. Fruitful labor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u77	Once again, we thank our delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, you are very good. And the word of a member of the Parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe, as well as of the parliamentary committee of the Association of Honorable Olena Sotnik, to whom we also thank very much for our joint position. Please, Mrs. Sotnik, microphone. It's not illustrated, either, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u78	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, may I? Thank you, thank you, thank you for being able to speak from the rostrum. I really totally support this position. Of course, the President's right to release and appoint his foreign minister. But it's always important to remember that any assignment has to be linked to the purpose. The key goal in foreign policy is to become a subject, to become an influential entity, and to have personal interests, and to stand up for them. This requires a specific external strategy for Ukraine’s policy in the world. So I'm from some of my hypostasis, from my colleagues I'm going to now and to, hopefully, the future foreign minister, I'm sorry that he's not listening to us, because they still have to MP some experience in this area and have something to say, and also hopefully, to the President. Well, first of all, the European Integration Committee. I fully welcome the President's statement that he intends to implement the Association Agreement in short periods. Of course, it sounded absolutely fantastic in terms of the speed of time -- one year -- but if the President really has those intentions, I just want to say, first of all, what you have to do is to adopt a mechanism whereby all initiatives in the field of European integration have priority, not to stop in government and parliament. This will require the adoption of a separate law, including one that has been drawn up so far in the Committee on European Integration, on State policy in this area. To do that, you're actually going to have to work with a very large number of obstacles to lobbyists, oligarchs and other representatives of financial groups who are totally not interested in European standards in Ukraine. From the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and our delegation, I want to tell you that it would be very good to have co-operation, and I hope that this cooperation will be in the next Parliament between you, the delegation of the Parliamentary New and, of course, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because only the common position of these three institutions, the common position of Ukraine in the future, the very difficult future in the Council of Europe for Ukraine, can create a miracle and can restore the justice that our colleagues have taken from us today. And the third. From the diaspora, from our employees, and from the people who are now more than 7 million who are abroad and who have had to leave Ukraine to make money there. Ukraine should remember that these are the same Ukrainians, they have the same rights, and these rights must be protected, secured, and, above all, maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u79	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u80	Keep in touch with Ukraine, make sure that they return in the coming years. And all of this has to be Ukraine's external strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u81	So, colleagues, now we're done talking. Now the final word of the rapporteur and the committee heads, and let's move on to the decision-making process. So in a few minutes there'll be a vote, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. The closing word is Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Ruslan Alexiyovich, closing statement, three minutes. And the head of the committee, and let's move on to the decision-making process. Provided by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u82	Honorable national deputies, grateful for the discussion, are deeply grateful for the suggestions that have been made. And I very much hope that you will find the strength and quantity to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u83	Thank you. The closing statement is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hopco Hanna Mikolayevna. And I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u84	Good afternoon, fellow Ukrainians! The committee at its meeting confirmed, inter alia, the proposal, and supported the President with regard to the release of Klimkin and the appointment of Prystyk Vadim Vladimirovich as Foreign Minister. We believe that in such a difficult time where Ukraine should defend our national interests in the international arena, we should see the game of national team: The President, the future convening of Parliament, and the government. And so I would like to wish the future minister real success, really wisdom and obviously understanding and cooperation with the next Parliament. As we discussed at the meeting today, I very much hope that, in particular, the course that was to discuss the situation in the tripartite contact group in Minsk, or so-called "Minish Platform" in Parliament, this practice will continue and we will see in a new call, in particular, the possibility of interaction. And when parliamentarians understand what's going on in the norm, what's going on in the triangular contact group in Minsk, and how we achieve victory, not just peace, in Russian armed aggression against Ukraine, it's very important. I also hope that the next minister will be able to immediately appoint the first deputy, the deputies, to rotate the ambassadors without waiting for years, and also to appoint those where they are not available or vacant. We also discussed on the committee today the importance of convening a separate session of the PNDP in order to talk about our response to the external political challenges that exist. And it's not just the situation in the East or the Azov Sea, it's the question and the Russian Federation's return to Paris, it's also the question of what's going on in neighbouring Belarus, it's the question of what's going on after all the statements in Hungary. So I'm very hopeful, and, in particular, Vadim Pristajko supported this idea, and I said that the meeting was being prepared. It's very important to use the PNB mechanism to strategy and plan clearly our strategy for responding to external policy challenges. There is also an important visit to the United States, and I very much hope that the Ukrainian delegation will bring sanctions from there that will stop the North Stream-2, but we need to continue working with the European Union, take advantage of the opportunities of the newly elected European Parliament, there are more than 30 deputies, which our friends, extend this circle to those who for the first time in the European Parliament in order to become Ukrainian friends. So, colleagues, there's a lot of work to be done. And I would like to hear, instead of the idea of illustration, ideas about how to make Ukraine stronger and how to make the Ukrainians richer, and what I want to do with the tools of international politics. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u85	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, come into the hall. I ask you to prepare yourself for making a decision. I'm asking you to come back from bed. And I'm voting on the draft Klimkin P.A. Liberation Order. from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine (No. 10381). At the suggestion of the committee, it is proposed that a decision be taken in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote, please. [[17:07:53]] For-160. The decree is rejected. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that this morning we voted, we have decided to listen to today's information from the deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasts by Fechuk Uljana Juryivna. In accordance with articles 34, 240 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the next order of consideration is proposed. First. Give the deputy head of the National Council of Ukraine for information on television and radio broadcasting, Fechuk Uljani Yuriovni, up to 15 minutes. For the answers to the questions of the people's deputies, within 20 minutes. Talks from MP factions and groups for up to 24 minutes. No one would deny the work of such an order? And I invite you to the podium of Fechuk Uljana Juryevna for a report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u86	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that I have come to the Supreme Council because for five years no member of the National Council has had this opportunity. And I'm probably going to say unpopular words right now, but I want to thank all the composition of this Supreme Council that's been working and standing in defense of Ukraine's information security. [[Applause]] You passed a number of laws that allowed the National Council to work more effectively. However, they have proved to be inadequate, for each day new information causes unfortunately do not allow for effective application of those mechanisms that are on the National Council. For the first time, I'd like to thank you for actually Ukrainianizing Ukrainian television. Because more English is now available, more Ukrainian performers have appeared, and this is very important. Thank you very much for the opportunity to impose fines. During the last two years, fines have been imposed for the burning of hostility. And I think it's an effective mechanism. Thank you for the opportunity to develop public speaking, because you have foreseen in our law the preference of a social speaker to others if they are participating in a competition. I thank you for finally knowing the real, but not all, owners of television organizations, and this information is now disclosed and is on every language and provider's website. Really. Why I think my speech is important today, and I am very much asking you to listen to me. Because it's a word. Because there was a Word at first. And the information threats, unfortunately, they don't cross borders because they cross our brains on television and on the Internet. And the last case, which everyone was looking at, is the possible conduct of a television bridge, caused a very large resonance in society. And in fact, most of the Ukrainian people are against Russian propaganda in Ukraine. I thank you for the decision taken by Parliament, which has been referred to the National Security Council since October 4, 2018, regarding the activities of certain television channels and the application of individual sanctions. To this day, however, no decision has been made on this issue. And we've already asked them to look into this question, which was referred by Parliament. But the mechanisms that exist now are ineffective. And I'm addressing you, this House of Parliament, so that maybe you can vote for those bills that you have under consideration today, is in order of the day, as well as for the bill that was introduced last fall and set out for number 9068, which provides for the possibility of suspending licenses and cancelling licences directly by the National Council, because we see Russian propaganda already on some channels. There are also questions about the monopolization of information space, and there are unfortunately no effective measures to secure this situation. Ready to answer any questions you may have in order to be able to find and establish a relationship, for one of you will be in the Supreme Council’s next call. And I want us to make an effective decision. The last year we worked with Mrs. Victoria Sumar. I am very grateful to the Committee on Freedom of Word, which has done so much in fact both for the National Council and for the protection of the information space, and planned to be introduced this summer to the Supreme Council, literally remained to be processed quite a trifle in fact. Unfortunately, he wasn't able to make it, and I think by this Parliament, I'm sure he's not going to vote. But I ask first of all, when you move to the next Parliament, to pay attention to this bill, which I hope will be introduced, and to remember that this is Ukraine’s obligation under the Association Agreement. Thank you for your attention. I'm very sorry to see only some eyes, but I'd like everyone to take care of information security. This is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u87	Thank you. So now it's 20 minutes -- questions from the national MPs. Who intends to ask questions, please participate in the record. Please sign up. Please. Wait a minute, I'll give someone a word. A vine, please, Andrew. Questions. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u88	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. The whole country sees that in the sixth year of the Russian-Ukrainian war on Donbas, where the Russian Federation is an aggressor and kills Ukrainians every day, at this time the godfather Putina Medvedchuk for promoting the past power and because of the inaction of the current power is actually taking over the information space, bringing together three information channels, in fact, on the Zitz Chairman, and gradually taking control of the fourth. Why has there been no hard work in all the years of this respected National Council on Television and Radio? Was there the same inaction of new structures to stop the capture of Ukrainian information space by Russian invaders Medvedchuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u89	Please, Uljana Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u90	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I want to say that we live in the rule of law, so we are governed solely by the law. Like you said, these are channels purchased by a really good person. I mean, we can't make contact with Medvedchuk. It is not enough that we and the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine have started joint activities, we are exchanging documents to establish a link between the final beneficiary owners of 112 channels, NewsOne and ZIK. So these actions have already begun after it became known that Mr. Kozak has acquired ZIK.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u91	Thank you. Liszko Oleg Valeriyovich, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u92	To the vine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u93	To the vine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u94	You can't disagree, but wasn't the National Council blind and seeing a rematch of Moscow that took place all those years after 14? When, for the benefit of Medvedchuk, for Moscow's aid, in fact, for Russian money, do we have to understand that information channels that have a very strong impact on public opinion have been turned smoothly from the source of different viewpoints that are normal in a democratic state into instruments of Moscow's occupation propaganda? Was it a secret to you, and so did I refer to the Ukrainian Security Service, was it a mystery to anyone that in fact took control of these channels, not even of Medvedczuk, but of his godparents, Putin and Medvedev, who were sitting in the Kremlin, who were annexing Crimea, who started the war on Donbassa, who were killing Ukrainians?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u95	Thank you again for your question. And my last words were that we're asking for more strict powers. The thing is that today, let's say, with Channel 112, we have 33 cases of violations of the law. There are 18 fines applied to NewsOne, which are now being similarly prosecuted in court. We don't have an effective mechanism of influence, so we can only go to court, and you know how many court hearings are going on and how they are being moved, and what comes into effect is only after the appeals are received.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u96	Thank you. Talk to me. Bilkova Olga Valentinovna is invited to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u97	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear reporting lady, I'd like to clarify your thesis. You said you needed to increase your authority. Last night, I was surprised to switch to 112 channels, and I saw some of the colleagues there who are candidates for the national MPs, and I can explain that to myself, but for example, the Prime Minister of Russia, me personally and his very full report are so powerful, I can't imagine them showing the same in Moscow. Tell me, please, if you get all the authority you want to see happening today, as if you already had this authority on the fact of this report, or is it really freedom of speech? What's your vision?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u98	See how close a person is to war in general and in which even friends died there, I have to say that it is indignant to me. However, by reading article 6 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, we see that everything will depend on what this person actually says. So if she's calling for animosity and a breach of territorial integrity, the National Council has the opportunity to apply sanctions and now, you just have to do it more effectively. If these are harsh calls, let's say we suspend the license to make them think. Or in some lands, perhaps there are restrictions on the non - distribution of advertising. But we know these information channels, they don't live by advertising, they don't really need this authorization, because there's actually no advertising there, they live by means of funds that probably come from Moscow or somewhere outside the border. So if, in fact, there are calls there, we now have the opportunity to apply a warning, a fine and appeal to the court about the cancellation of the license. If we have the opportunity to suspend the license, it will be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u99	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u100	In fact, they will not be able to speak, so they will not be able to spread the language of hostility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u101	Thank you. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u102	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Please pass the word to Gregory Sverke.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u103	Thank you, Ivan Dmitrovich. Dear Uljana Yuriovna, I have a question about the cooperation of the National Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. From your point of view, what should the next Supreme Council do to ensure that the National Council actually has sufficient authority to protect Ukraine's information space? We have bills that are currently registered. Should New Bills Be Made? Are you prepared to work on such bills? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u104	Taking into account the practices and challenges that we get every day, I think the most effective would be, of course, the adoption of the new Audiovisual Media Proclamation, because it's now the law of 2006, which was still foreseen and acted with old technologies, and actually the world is moving forward. And I'd like to support a bill that is already in the Supreme Council, number 9068, which is about to go into hate speech, gives the National Council an effective impact on radio organizations if they violate the rules of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u105	Thank you. Sevrukov Vladislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u106	Good afternoon, colleagues. What I'm saying is, as a person who worked for the National Council of his time, I think everyone who's interested in the work of the National Council understands the situation as well as the power of the National Council. I don't want to repeat, I just want to remind you that so many courts have been lost by the National Council. And recently, you know, the Inter Channel condemned the biggest fine that was imposed -- 34 million dollars for comparing the heroes of Ukraine to the fascists. And so we also have this judgment condemned, unfortunately. My question is different. I know that the last few meetings of the National Council have not taken place for various reasons. So I have a question, is there a consensus on the National Council right now? Are there meetings? And what are the plans for the peaceful work of the National Council in the near future?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u107	The National Council resumed its work on July 4, this year. I think it's because she was being pressured by society and, in particular, by the Army of FM, and by public figures. The thing is, at the border, we're running out of deadlines for the permits that you've allowed, by the way, like the Supreme Council for Temporary Speech. Then it was restored. The President is now appointed a new member of the National Council. And there's a court case on the legality of the previous one's release.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u108	Red Olga Valerievna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u109	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good afternoon, Mrs. Ulyana. I thank you very much for your thorough response. I want to speak to the Ukrainian Parliament. Colleagues, we are now very keenly discussing the issue of televised bodies, owners of television channels that have an odious virtual reputation, but we are not talking about what we did not give, really, any instrument to the National Television Council and radio talk about resisting such things. Bill 9068 on the resistance of the language of hostility. When TV channels say "worshipers," "groomers," "fascists, junta" and so on, it might not have been if we had passed a bill that would have allowed the National Council to fine television channels for deliberately broadcasting hate speech. So I'd like to call maybe Andrew Volodymyrovich, and tomorrow we'll put to the vote on Friday? It would be a beautiful "dembel" chord. Mrs. Ulyana, thank you. If possible, comment on what would have happened if the law had been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u110	I want to repeat and thank you once again for protecting the information space and the work of the Freedom of Speech Committee, and everyone who has spoken today. This would enable the National Council to act effectively at a time when the language of hostility is displayed on television. This will enable this to be done effectively, without the long, long-lasting, law-abiding tests now being carried out. Because in fact, from the moment the program goes on air, the National Council has only been able to do this in three to four weeks. And then we're going to confirm the results. So this is a very difficult and long way to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u111	Thank you. Please, Sauca Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u112	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'd like to give the floor to Mr. Mikola Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u113	Dear Mrs. Uljana, I appreciate your work, but I'll have a sharp question. Today, unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of two of my laws on media transparency and finance. But according to article 19 of the Television and Broadcasting Act, the sources of funding for television organizations are budget allocations, commission executions, subscription fees, funds received from advertising. As you know, a whole series of TV channels, such as "112th," NewsOne, ZIK, which are attributed to the so-called "Holding of Medvedchuk," usually don't have that kind of cost. And I have a question for you. When was the last time Nazrad checked these channels to comply with the requirements of article 19 of the Television and Broadcasting Act regarding sources of funding for the designated organizations? Have these sources been identified? And a quick question. The Television and Radio Act prohibits residents of the aggressor country from participating in TROs at all levels of corporate structure, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u114	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u115	Including being a comforter. Does the Board monitor compliance with the specified requirements of "112", "NewsOne" and "ZIK"? Have you ever addressed the B.B.I., the N.B.O. about getting information that Mr. Taras Kozak is interested in, buying TV channels and creating information media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u116	Please, Mrs. Ulyana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u117	Thank you for asking. I'm going to start with the second question, because it's about the documents that the broadcasters give when they change owners. Unfortunately, they work there, or luckily, I don't know, there are very professional lawyers working there that make it impossible, and any relationship with the Russian Federation is just in these documents, based on those documents that are missing. So it's actually impossible to prove that the Russian Federation has any influence on this. For this reason, we corresponded with the Ukrainian Security Service. Regrettably, we are not yet provided with documents to support our influence. As for article 19. Since the mandate of the Nakrad is limited and we have a limited number of issues that we can verify, we did not check the radio organizations under article 19. Because I think there's a lot of importance to hiding sources of funding, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u118	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u119	Including contracts, let's say, for advertising, sponsoring and all that. We know that slots are sold in information programs, and that's how these channels are actually financed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u120	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy, Ammelchenka. Please, People's Deputies of Lozova. Turn on the microphone. Please wait for the microphone. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u121	If Laszko were to run the country, the Russian agency here, led by Medvedchuk, would never have captured the information space. Instead, President Poroshenko traded with him for five years, allowed him to fly directly, as he is now allowed directly. And it was because of the inactivity and business partnership that Dusty Medvedchuk was able to capture much of the information space. Today’s power is no better. President Zelensky, who from this rostrum despised even the Ukrainian language during the inaugural talk, likewise allows Medvedchuk to continue to capture the information space. But I'd like to go to Nakrad. It's not just about 112 channels, NewsOne and ZIK. It's controlled by the same Medvedchuk "Vest" that comes out on the news channel "24", the beneficiary of which is actually the city's head, Lvva Andry Sadowa. And the News is also the least source of Russian propaganda than what Medvedchuk bought directly. Are there going to be any action on your part and on the 24 channel, which also becomes a hole in Russian propaganda.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u122	There is no legal basis for this. But let me deny it. Because thanks to both this Supreme Council and Mr. Poshenko, who was the President of Ukraine, the National Council has been able to limit access to 80 Russian television channels in Ukraine and ensure that the entire line of collisions is addressed by a Ukrainian signal. That's to say that nothing has been done. And you voted in favour of those laws. And I first told you thank you for giving me that opportunity. It's just, you know, I'm saying that the Word was the first one, so the expansion is moving forward, and in fact, Ukraine is becoming an area where dirty technologies are being tested. And we see it every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u123	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u124	Please give the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u125	Please, National Deputy Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u126	Thank you. The next question that I'm interested in is, are the Nakrad papers on beneficiary owners of 112 TV channels, NewsOne, ZIK? What did Nakrad do to determine whether the beneficiaries of the channels were correctly identified? Have the incomes of a person who calls himself owner to be able to maintain multiple channels been studied? Have there been references to the Antimonopoly Committee regarding the purchase of media assets, the presence of concentration? Why didn't you consider the application for extension of the "112" channel license, which was long overdue due to sanctions, and what was done to unlock this procedure? And a quick question. The board can actually respond, as you said, to anti-Ukrainian propaganda on television. Five years ago there were sanctions to the 112 channel for anti-Ukrainian activity, and the courts said you had the right to do so. Do they become instruments, or will you continue to implement such sanctions as you have done before? Because we know that one of these channels is offering to show the movie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u128	Ukraine is a democratic state, and freedom of speech must be more than anything. As far as I'm I'll try not to forget any of your questions. Regarding the transformation of the ownership of the ZIK channel, the National Council has not yet received the documents today, but it has already begun its cooperation with the Antimonopoly. Until we get the legal papers, we have nothing to talk about, you know. The second question is, on Channel 112, the extension of the license. On the day the National Council was to consider these issues, these broadcasters endorsed the provision that prohibited the National Council from addressing the issue. This resolution was appealed in an appeal, and the appeal supported the decision of the first instance. Unfortunately, insurance claims have a limited range of charges. That's why we can't sue the decision of the appeals agency. In fact, today we are waiting for a decision in fact on this matter in order to unlock this possibility. So we actually have a restraining order on this issue, and we understand that it's very important, and we want to consider it ourselves. But we don't have any mechanisms to influence the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies. Shurm's national deputy. Shurm's national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u130	Thank you. I don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u131	Thank you. People's deputy Gulak of the Radical. People's Deputy Linko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u132	When we talk about a hybrid war, it means that Russia is killing our soldiers with one hand and that another is clouding the minds of Ukrainians, and it is blurring through the air of television channels that are now conducting open anti - Ukrainian propaganda. So security in the information space is part of our protection. And we have very high hopes for your institution to control where freedom of speech and there are no pressures of freedom of speech, but where open anti-Ukrainian propaganda, because this anti-Ukrainian propaganda then starts shootings and then starts the deaths of our soldiers. So it's obvious that in the last five years no conclusions have been drawn, the information policy has been completely unsuccessful. I would very much like you to understand that this depends not on just what sounds like on our airs, but on Ukraine's life and Ukrainian security, in general the existence of the Ukrainian state. Make conclusions, and please work more effectively.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u133	Thank you for your comments. All that time I've been given, I'll be sure to stand in defense of Ukraine's information space and use everything I can to limit it. I hope that my successors will do the same because information is the most important thing that we have and that we should consume very carefully. I guarantee we'll act in this plane. The only thing they haven't done in five years is actually do it. And we can give you all the reports that the Supreme Council has not actually listened to, but it's all set in numbers, and you'll realize that there's an enormous amount of work done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u134	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Visock.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u135	Colleagues! Microphone. Thank you. First of all, I want to tell everyone in this room that the pro-Creme rematch had to fight them all together, including in the Kremlin. With a rematch in the radio area. When we, with a number of our colleagues at the Supreme Council Hall, announced a boycott on airs such as the NewsOne, the 112 channel, I didn't see much support for this initiative in the hall. And that's why everyone who's been going all these years to 112 NewsOne, other pornographic media, you also share this responsibility for how they still feel about themselves. And the question to Mrs. Ulyana is simple: was there any interest in the new President's team in resisting the Kremlin's influence in our media, or were there any meetings, perhaps a call to Nacrada, even though they were active in resisting the Kremlin in television over these months, or were they not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u136	During this time, we received only four documents from the President's administration: one about the cancellation of the appointment of Gorkovenko, the other about the cancellation of the release of Artemenko, the other about the renewal of the work of Artemenko, and here is literally recently the order for the appointment of a new member of Zinevich. Thank you very much. And I want to remind you, really, because not everyone remembers, and we have to remember that until something gets on the air, the National Council can do nothing. According to article 5 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, censorship is prohibited and any interference with editorial media policy is prohibited. They themselves define editorial politics and what they say. We can only react after, or prejudice, we don't have any mechanisms of influence, and I don't want them to be, because freedom of speech has to be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u137	Thank you. Now we're going to have a discussion with MPs and factions. People's deputies are invited to prepare themselves and take part in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the German People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u138	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! So for today, the question that's being considered, I want the representatives of the television agency to understand, and I want to say. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I know what I call "national," and I know what I'm talking about. So, I want to say that. What this was about was a democratic institution, a state of freedom of speech in Ukraine. Can you imagine the chairman or deputy of this state agency asking questions about giving additional authority to fight freedom of speech? I didn't take a question, I didn't go to ask a question. I want to put it here. Did they read the convention, article 10? Have you, by the way, read the Convention on Transboundary Television, where it is clearly stated? And the Information Act, starting with the 2nd article, that it's freedom, pluralism is thought, and should not be exclusive to hold on to any kind of televised organization. I'd like that. Yes, telenastic, yes, yes. Honey, I'm responsible for what I said. The other one. I would very much like to draw your attention to specific channels. Mr. Knieżicki here lists all the channels they're talking about. What's behind this? It indicates that there were sanctions there last October. So I want to report that this case is being dealt with in the Constitutional Court on the basis that the Supreme Council has exceeded its authority and assumed the functions of repression, as in the police state. Here today they are told that they work on TV channels, that lawyers are working, which are not able to stop them, figuratively speaking, oxygen. But there are lawyers to work in the legal field according to the Constitution and according to the Law on Information and Radio and Television. That's what this is about. And to come out here and say, and swear, and swear to serve in order to fight for the informational Ukrainian space, I'm sorry, we've been through this before, and our country has already passed. Let's not look at these things, we need to take them out, we need to take them out with the foams. It's a subjective approach, it's the support of ideology.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u139	Thank you for your presentation. And please, Sergey Vlasenko of Fatherland, please. I'm sorry, Nakrad can comment, the Nakrad representative will be able to comment on the questions that were already in the summary statement. Please, Mr. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u140	Dear colleagues, let us begin with what we can honestly say: For five years there was no independent regulator in this market. Regrettably, there was a politicized institution that did what it did to the political authorities. I just want to remind my colleagues, how many, like, a year and a half ago, were there any references to the PNB? What was done? In addition to the fact that these channels forced the change of editorial policy for the sake of the then president of Dustenk. And these channels worked until the first round entirely for President Prashenko's sake, spreading obvious lies, spreading obvious false information, and not even intending to react in any way. In fact, Nakrad did not respond, although they had special powers, including the President’s Election Act. They didn't react in any way. And did they react to the fact that the Tonis channel was bought into Janukovic's son during the sanctions and renamed him "Primary"? And they created Russia Today in Ukraine today with all the same methods, the same ways, the same rules that are no different from the pro-Russian channels, only manipulated for the benefit of other policies in Ukraine, the real owner of these channels, former President Peter Poshenko. That we don't all know that? We know. Was Nakrad’s reaction? It wasn't. And so we will, every time we gather and discuss these issues until we have an independent regulator. What, we do not remember how two months before the end of the cadence, suddenly Mr. Artemenko decided to resign just so that the outgoing President would appoint his own man, who, by the way, was in charge of the Black Pearce Administration to appoint him to Nacrad and to work as an independent regulator? So the situation today in the media market, I have a huge request to the vice presidents to look in the mirror and realize that it was created by you. This is a situation that you created, you created, you kept it, you developed it, you crushed it, thinking that President Poshenko would remain president for another five years. That's not what happened. So I personally expect the newly elected President to be assigned to the National Council of Independent Experts, who would be able to turn the National Television Council into an independent regulator who would be able to meet the challenges that are in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u141	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u142	Which would be able to respond to the challenges that are in this professional sphere. And I really want to see the consequences of this work in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u143	Please welcome Alona Babak. And it conveys the word to Jehor Sobolev, who represents the position of "The Fatherland." Please, sir. Sorry, self-help, of course. Mr. Sobolev, we're not transferring you to another faction. Please, from Self-Help, your position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u144	First. We believe that the National Television and Radio Council has sufficient authority to monitor the implementation and non-implementation of television channels. The other one. There is a method, a way that is much faster not just to announce warnings, other warnings, fines for TV channels that actually represent Russia and Russian aggression in Ukraine. This is the way the Sanctions Act provides. And that's a very easy way to describe it. The National Security and Defence Council meets with the President, decides to impose sanctions on television channels that undermine Ukraine's national security, and nothing else is needed. I have asked the new President with a letter of delegation that this decision is very easy to make, and it is in Ukraine's national interest, and the interests of the President himself, who is committed to protecting these interests. In fact, Russian television is Putin's most fearsome weapon, and it has cleared his way into the occupation of Crimea, to capture part of Donbas. So what is happening now on Ukrainian television, when the entire three information channels actually belong to the Kremlin, is controlled by Victor Medvedchuk, the most effective representative of the Kremlin, is a dangerous situation. It's aggression. This is the most successful part of the hybrid war. That's what it is. And we call on the new President, together with the National Security and Defence Council, to use the already approved Sanctions Act and to close these information aggressions. Putin's weapon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u145	Thank you. Please, from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u146	Dear colleagues, there are obvious facts that cannot be refuted. Today, the information channels in Ukraine, a country that reflects the hostile aggression of the Russian Federation, belong to a pile of Putin, Victor Medvedchuk. It is clear that the Medvedchuk news channel does not buy for its own satisfaction or for its own money. The purchase of information channels in Ukraine is developed in Russia, in the Kremlin a dedicated special operation to capture the country's information space. This special operation is being carried out at the expense of Russia. Medvedchuk is the operator and performer of this operation. In fact, the information space of the country is captured, not by Medvedchuk, but by Putin. Why did this happen? So the facts are obvious. The information space of the country, much of it, all the main channels are occupied by Putin. Now we need to understand why this happened and what we need to do. Why did this happen? The first is through Dusty, because of his position. Dusty did more than silently dazzle Putin’s enthusiasm for the country’s information space. Dustenko was an active participant in the actual criminal process. After all, it was Dusty and Medvedczuk who was in business. It was thanks to Dusty Medvedchuk that he represented Ukraine in Minsk. It's in Dusty now, and in Greeny now, that Medvedchuk is flying directly to Moscow. For example, I met with Prime Minister of Israel Netanyagu yesterday. Where was Medvedchuk along with all the others? In Moscow, Russia, where they want to drag Ukraine back into the Kremlin's gas supply. So the answer is why Putin did it. Because Dustenko helped them. What do we do now? Should we do it at all? It is quite obvious that if the state, the authorities, does not now begin to decisively, radically free the country's information space from the influence of Medvedchuk and his representatives here in Ukraine, such as Putin, it means that there is no authority in Ukraine that Ukraine is unable to protect itself as a state. It's the same as if, during World War II, Goebbels was the leader of the Red Army or the Truth newspaper. This is what is happening in Ukraine. Zelensky promised a decisive response to the capture of Putinim’s information space. Where is this reaction, except for a meeting in the PNB, a working meeting that no one has seen? There is an appeal by the Supreme Council to the Security and Defence Council to impose sanctions. Green as Head of the Security and Defence Council, as President of Ukraine, as Commander-in-Chief, has every opportunity to protect Ukraine's information against the Kremlin's special operations. If Zelensky doesn't do it, it means either he's completely unprofessional with his team, or they're in the same relationship with Medvedczuk and Putin. That's why Ukrainians have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u147	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. And please welcome the National Deputy Mr. Schwerk, who will present the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u148	Dear colleagues, I would like to say the following about the situation in the information space of Ukraine. From my point of view, the biggest problem that exists today is that between the position of a political power or another political power, a position that may be different from that of power, but is a position of Ukrainian political power and an enemy propaganda that also takes place in Ukrainian television space, a very fragile boundary. And anyway, someone has to be discreet about making decisions. This is the political position that is normal in any democratic world, or really hostile propaganda. And this organization, which has to have discretion on this issue, has to have the remaining weights to make decisions in such a way that it does not in any way oppress other political positions, but has enough weight to stop the enemy's information propaganda in the information space of the Ukrainian State. Unfortunately, today the situation with Ukrainian legislation is that there are no such issues as what is defined as "water information propaganda." Today, in Ukrainian legislation, the Television and Radio Act has only a few points for which the National Council can accept either a warning or a fine, or refer to a court of law, are direct calls for the collapse of the current system, xenophobia, pornography and so on. As for the fact that we have Russia, the aggressor country, that before we have a denial of an aggressive war by the Russian Federation against Ukraine, there are no words in the Ukrainian legislation on television and radio broadcasting. Such a bill was drafted by the Committee on Information Policy and Freedom of Speech of this Chamber. This bill we tried to include in the agenda, it seems, five times, but never once did it get the required number of votes in order to get into the agenda. That is why we did not give sufficient weight to the National Television and Radio Council to make effective decisions to combat information propaganda. So it seems to me that our next colleagues, colleagues who will work in this next room, have to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u149	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u150	take either the materials already worked, or develop some other, but still make sure that the government regulator has sufficient weight to make legal decisions. Yes, I understand there's a decision in the National Security Council. That's true. And the National Security Council had a decision to make. But still, in my view, everything about the information space.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u151	Thank you. And the closing statement is from the People's Front. Princely Mikola Leonidovich is invited to the floor, who has made a great deal of efforts to make Ukrainian media space Ukrainian. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, one of the last performances in this Supreme Council. And what we really didn't do, we really didn't protect our information space, and the result is that when the country is actually standing, well, not on a cliff, but on a very big crisis, including because we didn't adopt those laws. Obviously, the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio was working very well in terms of democracy. It's extremely good. We didn't see any persecution. The pleasure worked honestly. I want to thank all the members of the Council for their work. But the council did not close, although it had all the authority, stopped the anti - Ukrainian television channels, tried to do so, and the courts did not allow it, but could do so. The Council did not verify who owned these television channels, even though they were. The Council did not do many other things that would prevent that catastrophic defeat in the information war. Why didn't the council do it? I think it's the council, and we've all been too safe to deal with the catastrophic situation that happened in the information space. And you can argue between Ukrainians. Freedom of speech must be preserved. But when Russian propaganda flows from Ukrainian channels, it is not freedom of speech but anti - Ukrainian activity. And the PNB, the right thing to say is that the PNB had to make the sanctions. But let me tell you, there's an exclusive list of actions that can be done by PNB. It is not right to leave the language, the TV’s language without a license. This right is exercised only by the National Council on Television and Radio and Court. They had to do it. We were really supposed to give them additional powers. Today, on this last day, the Council of the Council broke two of my laws, did not include in the agenda, the transparency of media property, and the transparency of media financing. And one of the reporters who's just been here, and he's swearing that he did all this, he didn't vote in favour of this law. A very honest person behaves himself. Because for us, pyar is everything, and responsibility is nothing. I have high hopes that the next Supreme Council will be, however difficult it may be, but it will have a sense of self-preservation, though from the State. In this election, we shot ourselves in the head as suicide bombers in this country. But those who have come, even if they can no longer shoot themselves in the head. We saw the position of President Zelensky, who is also not comfortable with this propaganda of the Medvedchuk Canals, because he has an electorate that takes him and leads him to the pen and drives him to Moscow. And I hope that the patriotic people who come to the hall will put an end to that vacchanal. I really want to thank everyone. Over the past five years, we have done as much for Ukraine, Ukrainian culture, as we have never done. I want to thank everyone in this room. I want to thank the head of the Supreme Council. And to say that the rematch won't pass. It's gonna be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u153	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, colleagues. I'd like to thank you for the report by Fitchuk Ulyani Yuriovni. I think we have had a very professional and serious conversation. And we're going to have a very important task of protecting Ukrainian information space. I want to point out that the occupation of Ukrainian information space is no less dangerous than the occupation of Ukrainian territories and Ukrainian lands. Colleagues, we feel and know that there is a rematch that wants to ruin our achievements. Russian influence agents are buying up Ukrainian channels. This will be a challenge for all of us. I am convinced that all of us, and the representatives of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio, will be able to stop this rematch and prevent the occupation of Ukrainian information space. I urge you to stand firm, to stand firm. Rematch didn't work out. And together, together, we will stand and not let that happen. And, colleagues, I want to make an important message to you because there have been insinuations about our Electoral Code. I have an explanation to make. Under the transcript, Alexander Chernenko noted that the codex was in effect for the next successive parliamentary and presidential elections. And that was the result of consultations between factions. This is vital for proper understanding and for the removal of interpretations. On December 1, 2023, the date was marked as the end date. We talked about if the next election was temporary and it was so possible for us to set a final date. And the code establishes this date if there is a temporary or presidential or parliamentary election. And there can be different things in our country. Thus, the Code takes effect in order to ensure that the next election of Ukraine’s national deputies and subsequent presidential elections are held, but not later than December 1, 2023. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to take this chapter of the transcript that I read into account when preparing the code for signature. In fact, it was said in the transcript when Alexander Czernenko reported it. In fact, it will be in the law. I ask everyone in this regard to give an explanation for the press so that there are no different explanations. We could, of course, have this election under this Electoral Code if there were no temporary elections, if it wasn't for this adventure, I wouldn't call it another word. An adventure that was made in our country. But we hope that the time for adventurers will pass. That time would pass when we fought for Ukraine on the front, on Maidan, on the ATO, it would laugh at Putin's comedian, and now it wants to highlight those people who were protecting Ukraine that were spilling their blood. Here, in the hall, Mikhailo Bondar, wounded on the front, Andrew Teteruk, who left the environment and led his unit, in this room Yuri Sukhevich, son of the UPA commander, a legendary politician. In this room our brothers and Mustafa Jemilev. And someone wants to point out those heroes who have been protecting Ukraine from the aggressors for five years. Only one person can want to do that, Putin, and no one else can want to paint a picture of Ukraine's defenders. The time for adventure will pass. Society will wake up. The people will wake up, I'm sure in these elections, 21 numbers will be waiting for the great awakening and support of the Ukrainian forces in the future of the Ukrainian Parliament, which will be able to stop the rematch. And I'm sure we'll win. Glory be to Ukraine, fellows! I invite everyone to the yard for a few minutes, all the national deputies, to the palace of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a few minutes. Before that, a brief announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u154	My friends, we had a lot of successful votes today, but a few cards were as incorrect as a mirrored card. And here's the National Deputy of Ukraine, our colleague Mr. Rybchin informs us that his card did not work during the vote for Minister Klimkin's resignation, and asks that his vote be taken into account as "in favour."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-11-m2.u155	Thank you, colleagues. So the time for the evening session is over. Today was a great day, a successful day, an important day. Congratulations to all of you. And I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I'll have everyone in the yard, colleagues, for a few minutes. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm expecting everyone in the hall. The session will be closed tomorrow. And tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Colleagues, I'm waiting for you.
