ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, good evening again. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we'll begin registration in a minute. Is there a Herus in the hall? Come here, please. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:05:16]] There are 302 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 205, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherland" – 12, "For the Future" – 10, "The Voice" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 18. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. For the stenographer. I would like to draw your attention to the adoption of the Bill 2000 on the State Budget for 2020 as a second reading and as a whole as a law taking into account the conclusions of the Committee on Budget Affairs and the rights of the Minister of Finance. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, a statement has been made from two factions regarding a break with a replacement for the performance. Jon’s Maria Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u2	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! We turn to the faction of the majority and insist on saying that each one. There is such a saying that every person chosen by the people begins to think that he is chosen by God and that difficult times begin. Unfortunately, we have such difficult times in the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation. After a recent scandal, the head of the committee, Bogdan Jaremenko, we would say that it was difficult for us to imagine that he, as a former diplomat, would continue to lead this committee and be part of the foreign policy of the highest legislative body of Ukraine in the international arena. At the request of the faction "European Solidarity", "The Voice", "The Fatherland", "The Opposition Block" after Mr. Jaremenko's application for release yesterday again presided on the committee and, frankly, he continued to preside over the committee, to conduct himself and to speak to the deputies in a very hammish manner. We demand that he be replaced, or temporarily replaced, by Mr. Nemira, or by the faction of the majority to elect a new committee head. External politics cannot wait for this room to be entertained. This is the front where we have to fight every second, because, for example, there is still no clear position of Ukraine in relations with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So far, we don't understand how to coordinate the North Stream 2 response. We're already hearing statements on our way out of Minsk. The president stubbornly seeks meetings with the aggressor instead of strengthening coordination with international leaders. A recent victory, for example, by Ukraine in the UN court for a lawsuit against Russia -- no reaction at all from the President, from the President's Office. So obviously foreign policy is weakening, and Putin is also, no doubt, using it as he feels it. That can't be right. We demand, all four factions, to choose a new committee head to find opportunities to meet with our international partners to unite against the aggressor, not to play or read morals to journalists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are about to move on to the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I would like to point out that on November 20, the world celebrates the 30th anniversary of the adoption of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every year on this day, children in eight worlds play a role in politics, business, media, sports, and other areas that are usually run by adults. But children are our future, in fact. And there's a proposal for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to now be approached by UNICEF representatives of Ukraine with a proposal to join the Ukrainian Parliament in this global UNICEF initiative and invite children to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall and allow them to speak out of Parliament on November 15th. It'll be about five minutes of the show. The Humanitarian and Information Policy Committee addressed me with a letter of support for the initiative. Therefore, if there is no objection, in accordance with articles 6 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the proposal to invite children within the UNICEF initiative to the Hall of Meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and propose that they be allowed to speak from the rostrum of Parliament on 15 November. That would have to be Parliament's decision. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[16:10:41]] For 315 Decision taken. One's got it. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 212, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 16, "Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 17, "non-factional" – 19. Thank you. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 85, paragraph 35, of the Constitution of Ukraine, regarding the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, should approve the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 7 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are approved by the Supreme Council at the time of the adoption of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. I'm sorry. For next year's second reading. Is it necessary to consider it in order to report to the committee’s head? Can we go straight to the vote? Can we get to the vote? In view of the above, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2433) on the cost of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2020 for adoption as a whole. Please be prepared. Yes, Olesia Stanislavovich. Wait. Are you going to report? The committee head will report. I give the floor to the head of the committee of Calchenk Sergio Vitaliovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u4	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Yesterday, the regulatory committee reviewed the Supreme Council's fundraiser project, decided to submit a draft of the fund for Parliament's consideration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at the morning session of Parliament, the Law on the State Budget for 2020 was adopted in a second reading and in general, as proposed by the Committee, whose meeting was held yesterday at the same time as the meeting of the Committee of Regulatory Affairs. And according to the law, the additional expenditure foreseen in the amount of 29 million 930,000 dollars under the budget programme "Indicating the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by means of television and radio and financial support for the publication of the newspaper Voice of Ukraine." These expenses were approved in the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With this in mind, please support the cost of these changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u5	Mr. Longey. Please turn on the microphone for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Longey, 102 constituency, Kirovograd district. Dear friends, I'm not myself, I'm talking about us, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and her face. We agreed with you at the first meeting of the Supreme Council when we saw that the hall was not equipped for people with disabilities, when we saw that our colleague was Jan Zinkevich, and unfortunately she had no opportunity to speak properly from the rostrum, there was no possibility to move on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Including me and the respectable vice-premier. Vice-Speaker looked at all the bathrooms and other rooms of the Supreme Council, and we saw that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council is not equipped for the High Council MP, which is Jan Zinkevich, with limited possibilities, with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u7	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u8	It's a little over 10 seconds, it's important. Not for any other Supreme Council guest or journalist who wants to be able to attend our meetings. So please, I held a few meetings with the Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It turned out that even my desire to co-finance the changes in question was not possible because they were contrary to the Anti - Corruption Act. We can't spend any more money on the Supreme Council than we can spend on the cost. My request. Please, let's make some changes and predict the cost of the next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u9	Oleg Stanislavovich, I, unfortunately, will not change the resources of the Supreme Council. With all due respect and understanding of the depth of the question, such questions are not raised. I think we can work this out. Dear colleagues. No, let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Decree (Registration No. 2433) on the funding of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2020 for adoption as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:16:54]] For 272 Decision taken. And please show me the factions. "Serve of the People" – 226, "Response Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 16, "non-fractional" – 15. Okay. That's the logic. Thank you. Orders adopted in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! Let's go. No! No! No! No! That's not supposed to happen. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been proposed to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land (registration No. 0855). The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, there are no rights here, so we will proceed immediately after the speech to the vote for this bill. Please don't go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u10	Good afternoon, colleagues! Good afternoon, chairman! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land (registration No. 0855), prepared by the Committee for second reading. The bill is a transitional bill. It was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call on the basis of 18.05. 2017. One proposal was made before the bill from a group of Ukrainian national deputies, Nagayewski, Chernyavski, Tarasov and Mr. Kulinić, who were included. The basic norm of the draft bill, prepared for second reading, is proposed to supplement article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence with a new part three, which simplifies the procedure for the deployment of means of communication, navigation and observation, radio-technical security, belonging to the units of the United Civil and Military System of Air Traffic Organization. The deployment of such navigational systems on the ground of defence will take place in agreement with the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, without altering their purpose and removing land. In fact, the only norm that is changing is that there is no need for agreement between local authorities, local self - government bodies, which the Ministry of Defence has been asking for. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act (No. 0855) to adopt a second reading and generally as a law. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u11	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, this bill takes into account all the regulations, one. So I propose to go to the vote for him. I am voting for the second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Defence Lands Act to improve the efficiency of the use of selected land (registration No. 0855). Please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote for the project? Please support and vote. [[16:21:23]] For 334 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations. The bill is being considered in full discussion. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zalockicki Marjanovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we turn to the question of transfering land, state land outside populated areas, to the administration of territorial communities. These are both united territorial communities and rural councils. Why again? Because Parliament of the past has tried three times to vote on this decision. These bills may have been mentioned by the national deputies of the previous convocations, headings 1159, 7118. And this decision has always had universal support for all factions. Why? Because it's really right and popular. Lands outside the population were managed by the community until 2002, when, at first, the President's powers were increased by a wave, they were not handed over to the administration, and in the 13th year, they were not transferred to the State Department, where they remain for a period of time. And all this time, and here I'm addressing the Mayors in particular, the village heads have asked, please give us our authority. At present, 100 percent of the income from these lands’ rentals goes to specific local budgets. That is, the village council receives income from this land’s rent, and to whom it is leased and/or rented, it is decided by an official in Kiev. This is fundamentally wrong. And I guarantee you that every major who supports this law, who will finally decide that yes, the heads of the country and the territorial communities need to hand over these powers from the Kiev officials, they thank you very much for that. But the bill is broader and more complex. Actually, it doesn't even take 10 minutes to tell you about it, there's 350 pages of the compare table. But his ideology is simple. It simply destroys the rest of the corruption schemes that remain in the State Department. You know, in fact, it's still the State Department. It agrees on several occasions with the state’s expertise on land-based documentation that the bill cleans up is left with only one. There the procedures for agreeing to remove the roof, the ground floor, are simplified. The procedures for certification of landowners are also simplified. All these corrupt schemes that go up and that the Supreme Council hasn't been able to destroy all the time. So, in summing up and trying not to take up too much time, and if there are questions, I will answer. Please support this right decision on land decentralization. This is actually half of the decentralization that we should do. Half is financial and half is land. Dear colleagues, please support. I assure you, as soon as you get to major districts, every village head will thank you for that. And each village head will ask why this decision is not made for so long and will ask each one of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u13	Thank you. A word. Yes, a question to the reporter. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u14	Please pass the word to my colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u15	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this bill is very important because it takes into account the entire philosophy of land relations in Ukraine. It's very important. We have to understand that there's a lot of rules being broken here and government control is being annulled. In this bill, the owner of the land will determine its purpose, and the village council will decide what is the purpose of the assignment of the land. There are six norms that need to be regulated, and these six norms are essentially changes in the ten laws that we're already talking about. That's why I have a question. Where did such philosophy come from? And why did you even choose a state control function for use, for land protection? And actually, for Article 150, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u16	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u17	In fact, the concept of "grounds" has been canceled, meaning especially valuable land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u18	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. Here I would like to point out that you have always been at the heart of the fact that it is for the united communities to hand over the right to rule over land, as a member of the Association of Heads of Rural and Rural Councils. Indeed, the bill is large and complex. And what about control? So control is really getting away from the Dergeocadastro. We are following the philosophy that there will be no centralized body of government resources. Those powers where the country councils are interested, for example, self-absorbing control, we're really transferring to places, and that's the right thing to do. Because it is the heads of the community who are interested in keeping the land unabated to fill the local budgets. The officials in Kiev are not interested in this at all. Another part of the powers, as well as the controlling powers behind this organ, we hand over to the authorities, which should then be converted into prefectures. So thank you for noting the importance of this bill. I know that the Fatherland faction has always advocated that everything should be passed on to the communities, and hopefully this time it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u19	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen speaking, you have the norm in this draft law that local self - government authorities will be removed from the management of water objects and their impact on this very norm is diminishing. How the proposal will be settled and given in general. How do you see how the standard for water objects and local self - government will work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u21	Thank you so much for asking. Frankly, I don't really know what this is about, because the bill has 350 pages. But I promise you, if there's a problem, and we've cut O.T.G.'s mandate, if that's really, really there, because I can really just not remember it, I hope you're being understanding, we'll make it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u22	Thank you. Alona Ivanovna's starch. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u23	Colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Colleagues, I just want to remind you, there can't be both orders and control in the same body. You're handing over control to local self-government, in fact, by using valuable land, including directly, well, all of those objects, is meant by the natural-invention fund and so on. Colleagues, this is a state function -- to monitor how this land is used -- and this is a state function -- to allow for a change of purpose especially to the valuable lands that we have in UNESCO. By the way, it's land in Prikarpatha, in Crimea, and in some other areas. Believe me, this article does not need to be undone, and you cancelled the entire article 150 and took over the function of the State, the State that is established by the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u24	Marian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u25	Thank you, Mr. Wadim, for asking. Those control powers that are transferred to places are, first of all, those powers in which, first of all, the communities are interested. That's what I was just talking about. With regard to the issue of particularly valuable lands, it is indeed an emotional issue, but it is now stipulated that the change in the target destination of especially valuable lands is being carried out by the Supreme Council, which it has not done since 2006 and of course will not do. Now you know that it's done on old Soviet projects that, in fact, from especially valuable ones, they come up through what's called soil analysis, and by the way, the head of the institute that does this, he's sitting at S.I.A. On the other hand, we also strengthen the environmental powers of other organs, that is, strengthen environmental powers. And we're also spreading land control in nature-preservation zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u26	Thank you. Thank you, Marian Bogdanovich. The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u27	Thank you, colleagues. Once again, I would like to add to my colleague's words that the main ideology of this bill is the transfer of maximum powers to the local communities regarding land administration. In addition, the main large block of norms is also deregulation of the land system. There are, indeed, some standards that need to be worked out, and Vadim Evgenovich knows, we have had many conversations with him, including today, on this issue. In addition, there is a large cluster of issues related to the development of the dominant right of active tenants. In this regard, I would like to say that the Committee on Agriculture and Land Policy, at its meeting on 30 October 2019, has considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Land and Other Legislative Acts on Improving the System of Administration and Deregulation in the Field of Land Relations (No. 2194), submitted by the deputies, the national deputies of Ukraine, Zablocki, Solski, Nagaevski and other Ukrainian national deputies. The draft law introduces changes to land legislation, which is proposed to transfer the land of state property outside populated areas to municipal property of rural, rural, urban councils. Establish, at the legislative level, a clear, simple and cost-effective mechanism for setting up and setting up within the State Land Cadastre of Communities, including the United Nations. Give local self-government authorities authority to change the target destination of private property land and to approve plans for detailed planning of areas outside populated areas. To renounce the existence of a specially authorized central authority in the field of land relations, namely Geocadastra. Give authority to state control in places. Strengthen the central executive authority, which exercises State control in the field of environmental protection, with specific monitoring of compliance with environmental legislation. Cancel the remaining institutions of State expertise on land-based documentation and mandatory agrochemical land passporting. Cancel the authority of the Supreme Council regarding the acceptance of the change in the target assignment of especially valuable lands. Cancel the agreement with Kabmin to sell land for non-agricultural purposes to legal persons where the founders are foreigners. At the legislative level, rules should be laid down that the change in the target destination of the land in question does not affect the special regime for the use of areas within the territories and sites of the natural and natural resources, as well as the Earth Code, as well as the lands on which cultural heritage is located. Introduce land documentation and land assessment to the requirements of legal and regulatory acts by the State authorities on the basis of one touch and silent agreement. Introduce voluntary independent control of the quality of work with the land administration or the ability to review them. Establish a legal mechanism to prevent conflicts of interest for landowners. Cancel the separate procedure for issuing special permits for the removal and transfer of land as documents of a permissive nature. Remove from all types of land-use documentation those components that are not developed by an engineer-landlord personally. Ensure deviation from paper technology to compile land administration documentation and technical land assessment documentation. Go to purely electronic. Implement legal guarantees for the full openness and availability of land administration and cadastre documentation. Liberalize professional training and human resources requirements in the field of land administration Specify the reasons for detaining a certified groundbreaking engineer of a qualified certificate. To monitor the land market on the basis of information provided by the State Register of Real Estate Rights and to publish its results. In line with the provisions of part one of the first 116th Supreme Council Rules, the Committee noted that in order to achieve the purpose of the bill, taking into account its complexity, a large number of legislative acts to which amendments are proposed are needed when preparing for the second reading to reconcile its provisions with others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u28	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u29	with other structural parts of the bill and/or provisions of legislation that were not considered in the first reading. The main scientific and expert management has made a number of comments that are appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u30	Thank you. Please sign up. Wait, Mikola Tarasovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u31	Dear speaker, I am interested in the changes proposed in article 189 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, which, inter alia, proposes to eliminate self - control over land use and protection. It means self-sustaining control over land use and protection – rural, rural, urban, district and district councils. Don't you think it's inappropriate to change that standard, especially when we're in the middle of a decentralization policy? And among other things, I asked the previous speaker, including questions about water protection zones, and local authorities also have a bearing on these processes. What Is Your Vision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u32	Mr. Alexia, look what the question is. When we hand over the powers of the geocadastra to official control of self-abuse and purposeless use, obviously official control has more weight and more meaning than self-governing and voluntary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u33	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u34	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar, your honor, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u35	Dear colleague, we've discussed this with you for a long time. We discussed with you very actively on our anti-corruption committee on this subject and on this bill. You said yesterday that it's an accompanying market for land, and I'm allowed to say that it's not, because it was developed by the previous government and it doesn't cover all the huge issues that are needed for a real market for land in the interests of farmers and peasants, it doesn't provide for a land bank that's understood by peasants as loans and a separate institution that would track, in fact, the use of land, the conditions for their use, all very common phrases. I have a question for you. First of all, where did the 60-hundred-dollar home rental come from? You have to have 2 hectares under the hay and have the opportunity to hold at least two cows.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u36	Thank you. Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u37	And the second question. After all, when the task force comes to work, we can sit down and discuss all these issues and on fertile soils in particular.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u38	Thank you. Mrs. Victoria, we have, indeed, already, within your committee, thank you for asking, discussed. In fact, it's a bill where a lot of the work that we've done before has been generalized on the committee. Thank you to the people, experts and deputies who have worked on these standards. Working group, it's already working. We've even discussed this bill in this work mode today. I absolutely suggest that you or the representatives of your faction or others join in. Questions. You know, in fact, the question of how many cows need more or less is very appreciable. For example, the idea that a cow doesn't need one and a half acres is the idea that it's only 30 hundred. Depends on what cow you see and how you approach it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u39	Thank you. Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. All of it. Please record the factions for the factions of the factions. Mikola Tarasovich, thank you. Did you like staying in the rostrum? Kucher Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. The bill is good, the bill deals with the issues that are practically history. Four bills were drafted, all of them not accepted. But the main issue of this bill is the transfer of land outside, of state land outside of populated areas to the territorial communities. To date, only the unified territorial communities have been assigned these functions. So I think that the bill solves a lot of land-use deregulation issues. The authority of the Supreme Council regarding the origin of changes in the target assignment of especially valuable lands has been revoked. The agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers on the sale of land for a non-agricultural assignment has been annulled. So the bill is extremely quality, a bill that will significantly reduce corruption in land relations and increase the material base of local self-government. Once again, I urge you to support this bill. A fine and modern bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u41	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u42	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I realize that the land and the homeland must be sold as quickly as possible and as cheaply as possible. But you listen to us and your President. He says, "For foreigners, after the referendum." I honestly don't understand why it's the foreigners after the referendum, because the President rightly said we're not bad. And the Ukrainian people aren't bad either. They may expect us to ask them in a referendum before the Law on the Sale of the Earth is passed, and what does that nation of yours want? And as for the substance of the law, you know, I was struck by two novices. First. There is still an opportunity to sell the land to foreigners. And it can't stop being indignant. And the second. I'm reading what rule of this law we want to remove. Conciliation of issues related to the change in the purpose of the special purpose of state and municipal property, the cessation of the right to use them permanently under the Code. So today this is the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we want to hand them over to some fucking periphery. I respect the rights of local communities. But let's not multiply the Supreme Council by zero anymore and we're with you. I understand that we need to end the parliamentary-presidential republic, I'm already reading and I understand, but we need to respect the institution where we work and to guarantee that our lands, our reserves will be preserved and not stretched out. That's why I find this law unacceptable. I urge everyone to hold on. And, you know, once again, I want to say that I'm deeply and deeply moved, and you know the word "unhappiness," about the example that we've already considered today. I'm not going to name names, you know who they're talking about, it's your colleague in such a beautiful state. Unite, help, because today they have done this with one another, tomorrow they will do it with all of them, but humanity must be a central feature of us with you, a view to one another, regardless of political views. And the adoption of this law is further arbiter for the benefit of the oligarchic clans and foreign companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u43	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, yesterday we spent a lot of time discussing land reform in fact, and it causes great concern, and a lot of questions, today's bill, probably more on form, on how to implement, it probably contains a number of contradictions, but what we are settling and trying to resolve the issues of local communities. OTG is very important, and these questions deserve support in the first reading. I would like to pay particular attention to one important story that will build up the entire society and this hall for the last few months. Since the President's presentation, we've started to talk about foreigners, and we've started to intimidate all foreigners with something so scary, and this whole dialogue is so high-pitched, and we're afraid of them, and it's already on the verge of some kind of xenophobia. Last Monday, the President promised to bring the matter to a referendum to decide whether or not foreigners could buy something in Ukraine. But I am drawing your attention to the fact that, since 2001, 19 years ago, paragraph 22 of the Earth Code has been in force, where it is literally said, "Agriculture lands cannot be passed on to foreigners, to persons without citizenship, to foreign legal persons and to foreign states." Period. Foreign issues were settled by Ukrainian legislation 18 years ago. What they're going to discuss in the referendum is not clear to me. But that's exactly what the bill is proposing to remove. What's that for? To hold a referendum on this norm or what? So I would very much urge the profile committee, the head of the profile committee and all the authors to identify themselves with the questions of foreigners and probably leave them alone, and to leave this fifth part valid, which for 19 years forbids foreigners to have land for agricultural purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u45	Thank you. Blue Oleg Mikhailovich. Mikola Leonidovich Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u46	Dear colleagues! First of all, I really understand that there are a lot of positive and progressive norms in this law that relate to decentralization, and they've been talked about. I'll talk about the dangers. And so I'm absolutely convinced where the dangers came from. That this bill was to be adopted after we opened the market for the earth. Because when we open the land market, we offer an agrochemical passport to make one of the key documents, and here it cancels. And there's a lot of these contradictions. A colleague noted that the bill completely allows foreigners to buy Ukrainian land. Now we're voting to let this happen, and then we're holding a referendum. I'm not arguing, and I'm not saying it's good or bad, there's different perspectives. But we have to realize that we allow foreigners to buy Ukrainian land under this bill. We're going to cancel completely. We're fully introducing deregulation for a whole range of environmental standards. These are also the requirements of agrochemical passporting, and projects by the land administration, the creation of eco-economic grounds for seismics, the arrangement of arrangements, many other environmentalists, we take away, so we open the way for land destruction. We're removing from the Earth Code article 150, which sets out the qualifications requirements for particularly valuable lands, and that's what my colleagues in Fatherland have talked about. And most of all. What I was trying to ask Vic Sumar. Please tell me, why are we banning a peasant from using a land that is more than 60 hundred? In order to allow this land to buy others? Why can't a peasant do business? Have a garden, people have a garden per hectare. Why do we forbid it? Obviously, a bill that proposes without any control, and we, when we talk about the land market, we talk about control and regulation for national security, buying land to foreigners, even though to Russians abroad. When we're talking about a bill that prohibits a peasant's mother from using over 60 hundred dollars, we can't vote for this bill right now. Although, as I said before, they have a whole range of positive standards. And after you vote for the land market, because if this market is not effectively regulated and the rights of the farmer and of the Ukrainian citizen are not protected, we will not vote for it. But after that, it would be logical to go back to him. So from our point of view, we need to send him out for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u47	Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u48	Please give the floor to Alexander Marikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u49	Marikovsky Alexander Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u50	Colleagues, on the Committee on Ecology, we have considered this bill, and we have a number of comments on this bill on the committee. Although it is large and should be accepted in the first reading, we highly recommend that we consider the issues that regulate the transfer of the functions of the State Department. In particular, we have been asked to adhere to environmental standards for the use and protection of land and the establishment and use of water protection zones and coastal protection zones, as well as to maintain the use of their territories. We're a little concerned that in decentralization of land we'll forget about environmental policy. But given that the last 28 years have not been enough to ensure that the earth has no erosion, the certificates that have been issued to the ground have been more butaphoric than real and real, we think this bill is very progressive. But we want to ask you to take into account a number of environmental norms that are necessary for decentralization of land. And even the Ministry of Environmental Policy and Energy supported the bill with a letter. So I recommend that you accept it in the first reading, but with some work for the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u51	Thank you. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u52	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this bill. In fact, it's much worse than what this Council voted yesterday. Well, it's probably the worst bill ever adopted in the walls of this Supreme Council. Dear friends, I can tell you that the person who will vote in favour will simply cancel part five of article 22 of the Earth Code, where the ban on selling to foreigners of Ukrainian agricultural land has been imposed today. So if you vote in favour now, it would mean that without the referendum promised by the President, you would actually let foreigners sell. To buy land and sell to foreigners. The other one. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, the concept of "personal value of the land" has been annulled. What is it? Particularly valuable are the lands of natural reserves, forestry, water, historical and cultural, recreational, health and agriculture. These are especially valuable lands that have been banned from changing assignments. For example, it was forbidden to cut down the forest or tear down the reserve and build something of its own. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, especially valuable lands, this definition has been annulled, and all of this can be looted, levelled, and done anything. For example, a wealthy person comes from another country or a corporation, buys the land of the reserve, flattens it with the land, builds any buildings there, and no one in the state gives it permission or forbids it. There is no such vacanal in any country of the world. Next. The bill repeals the control of the marriages. No one else will control the exchange. You can plant oil crops that will burn the earth to nothing and then dump these lands. Or, for example, do whatever it takes to exchange seed, and we will no longer protect the fertility of our lands. I can also say that this is supposed to, you know, like little bits of sugar, it's to give the land to communities. And I'll tell you that they deliberately put it in here to "stretch" everything else. And today, in the first reading of the Supreme Council, our Law, the Fatherland, on the transfer of agricultural land to the communities, was already adopted, and there was no need to write it. But this law destroys all state control over how the land is exploited and passed on to foreigners. Please don't vote for this bill. It's better to send him out for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u53	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u54	Send him to work and not ruin the country’s life for hundreds of years and give the land to foreigners. Vote against it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u55	Thank you. Please sign up for the speeches by the national MPs. Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u56	May I have Klimenko Julia, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u57	Who? Clemensa Julia Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, this bill has worked for many years, it did not appear yesterday, it did not appear as an addition to yesterday’s bill. Let me remind you that we voted, we abstained from voting, but this bill is in many ways progressive from the point of view of local self-government, decentralization, and we believe that it can be supported in the first reading, but it has to be worked out considerably for the second reading. There are many gaps that have already been discussed by colleagues. including the predominant right to repurchase the land by renter. That is why we will make adjustments, but on the first reading, we are ready to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u59	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u60	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." I'm primarily addressing Ukrainian citizens because there's no point in turning to this faction from yesterday's "Serves of the People" vote. Once again, Ukrainian citizens, you will see these Ukrainian national MPs vote and I want to explain the very main danger of this law. When you see such a great law, where there are more than 100 articles, the question arises immediately, What do they want to hide in this law? And I want to tell the citizens of Ukraine the following. This whole law, which is called deregulation, was written only to hide the sale of Ukrainian lands to foreigners, which is the main reason for this law. This completely violates the Constitution of Ukraine. This completely violates the promises made by the President of Ukraine in the elections, those promises made by the Ukrainian national deputies in the elections. So today, for the second time, the first time you lied to Ukrainian citizens, you promised them you wouldn't make such decisions without the U.S. referendums, and you're cheating on Ukrainian citizens again today. You're lying because it's a law that will leave the Ukrainians in general. There will be no Ukrainian landowners today. There will be only foreign citizens. And that's your main goal. And we're going to see today how once again the "Serves of the People" along with the "grantoids" and the "sorts" are going to vote on this law. Because they have orders from across the ocean. IMF today. They are servants of the IMF and of Soros; they are not servants of the Ukrainian people today. Today they do not defend the rights of Ukrainians; today they are all violating the oath given to the Ukrainian national deputies — to serve Ukraine. You will serve Soros, Philosopher, and IMF today. Our faction will not vote for this law. We'll vote red against it. Because we are in favour of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it has acted to make the earth the property of the Ukrainian people. This is social property. This is a non-renewable property and is a value that is unrenewable. You didn't create it. This is the property of our generations. And this is the property of the future of children and grandchildren. You leave the Ukrainians landless and leave slavery to these masters from the ocean today. It's a law on the introduction of slavery in Ukraine! Don't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u61	Thank you. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Sergey Vladislavovich was involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u62	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, read the warnings of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council. It's not about handing over land to communities. If anyone wants to pass the land on to the community, take the bill approved in the first reading, which is subject to all amendments and vote today. And tomorrow the President can sign it, and the land can be passed on to the communities. This law is for two standards. The first rule is that the key article of the Earth Code is repealed, where there is a direct ban on selling land to foreigners. The second norm, it is equally important, is a norm that applies particularly to valuable land. In fact, this bill gives you the right to sniff out a thousand-year-old kung fu in Ukraine, and you have the right to exterminate forests, conservation funds. And now it's the key. I am convinced that all of this is being done at the request of Putin and the Russian Federation. It's very simple to explain. How did Masandra get stolen today? Now you're legitimizing it. The land of Masandre becomes the legal lands of the Russian owners in the occupied Crimea. How are the land in the occupied Donbassa being taken away today? You grant this right to Russian owners in the occupied Donbassy. Then I'm going to see how you're going to go to international court. That's exactly what this bill was made for. Our faction demands that it be removed from the voting; it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. And I'm surprised that the profile committee that was supposed to draw that conclusion doesn't read the Constitution of the State, where there's a direct ban on such actions. We're asking him to take it off. There is a bill that suggests that the land be passed on to the communities. It can be made tomorrow, and all the adjustments are made to it. Vote and it'll be a bill on the transfer of land to the community. Unfortunately, it is behind this bill that all the financial fraud and the scheme lie when the Russian Federation officially enters the territory of annexed Crimea and the territory of occupied Donbas. That's what the "Paternity" faction looks like. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u63	Thank you. The reason for this is given to Solski Mikola Tarasovich by the Committee for an explanation regarding foreigners. And let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u64	Look, this, colleagues, it's completely wrong once again, it's not the way it really is. Bill 2194 regulates other relations at all, it doesn't cancel the moratorium, it's what we discussed yesterday. This bill does not modify article 130 of the Earth Code, which defines who purchases the land. This bill does not modify article 20 of the Earth Code, which provides that the change in the purpose of the land-use of natural and natural conservation, historical-cultural, forestry-related, state-owned and communal property is carried out in agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This bill only kills the corruption schemes that exist there. He's been on the committee for a month now, there's no alternative, he's been supported by all the associations that were at the meeting, he's voted, if I'm not mistaken, unanimously by the committee, and by other factions. Don't change your mind, it's not like one more time, don't change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u65	Please, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u66	Sobolev, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, when we have such a head of the profile committee, I now understand what's going on. I'm reading the findings of the science department. You can either throw them off, or you can trust that head. Article 22 of the Earth Code, which prohibits the privatization of land to foreigners, is being repealed. Why are you lying, Mr. Chairman of the Committee? Yes, 150 articles have been canceled, where the lands are especially valuable, which are now changing the goal of the local council’s decision. Think about it, the land of the reserve fund, the land of the cultural reserves. That's why it's done. At least read what you are given to sign. I don't know who prepared this bill for you. There's a bill on land transfer. Take it, put it in the hall, it was voted in the first reading. You don't need it. You need to waste especially valuable lands (art. 150) and give the land to foreigners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u68	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, I want to dispel all myths. Since a perfectly identical bill had been registered in the past, we were able to vote in the first reading, even in the session room, and in the second reading committee. But then there was not enough political will to bring the matter to a logical conclusion. This is about transferring land outside the local communities. Now the situation is completely illogical. When an official is assigned to a district center, he is given haystacks, pastures, and public pastures. And this situation is totally not affected by the local MPs. That is why this shameful practice has to be brought to an end. And finally, give the communities what they should have. They must manage the lands themselves outside the populated areas. So everyone needs to support this bill. He's been on time a long time. And it's in this Parliament that I think there is a political will to bring this matter to a logical conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u70	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. And then we move on. The "fatherland" was speaking, no. Let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, I'd only like to say that there's been a subterfuge of ideas. With good intentions, they seem to want to give to the territorial communities of the earth the strengths that are beyond the population. The question is being prepared. A platform for selling land. And I'll tell you, from the point of view of criminal law, this is preparation for the commission of a crime. Because the issue is against the State, against the State of the commission of the crime. First of all, this is because they want to take property, the holy right of ownership of the people. And the second. To take away our fellow countrymen, we are with you a natural source of existence. The state took everything, no jobs, no social security.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u72	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u73	There's still a natural source of existence, and that's what they want to take away by putting the Cabinet of Ministers under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Ukraine's Land Code and other legislative acts to improve the management and deregulation system in the field of land relations. Please prepare for the vote. Please take your place, you didn't report it. Thank you. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:10:58]] For 272 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 203, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 9, "Voice" – 17, "non-fractional" – 16. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the sale or rights to property and property (rents) through electronic auctions (register No. 2195). Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote, please support and vote. [[17:11:59]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Podlasy Roxolani Andriyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. The key novelty of Bill 2195 is the introduction of mandatory use of electronic auctions for renting or selling land of state and municipal property. Why is this important? Today, the Earth Code provides for an outdated form of offline auction, where participants should be physically present. Clearly, the information on these auctions is not available, and so, in fact, the auctions are held without competition, and the state and local communities are causing huge losses. In 2018, the government's pilot project of auctioning lease rights through electronic trading systems demonstrated that only a transparent online auction increases the rent price from 2 to 5 times. This increase is needed not only for a few pilots but for all without the exception of state and municipal lands. I would also like to remind you that according to the latest data from the State Department in 2019, there are 9.4 million hectares of state and municipal agricultural land in Ukraine. Although as early as 2016, there were 10.5 million such lands. That is, in just 3 years, despite a moratorium on the sale of land, the number of land was reduced by 10 percent. The electronic auction enables society to see with whom the State or local authorities make contracts for land rental and sale. This is the main safeguard against the corruption of state land from state property. I would like to emphasize that the new rules of rent and the sale of state land are needed regardless of which market model you and I will adopt. In addition, Bill 2195 deals with operations with state and municipal lands of any kind, not just agricultural land. That's why I'm asking you to support Bill 2195.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u76	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Solski Mikola Tarasovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u77	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Bill No. 2195 amends land law to propose the sale of land or rights to state and municipal property, including leases, solely through electronic auctions, in the electronic trading system in real-time online. The result of which will be a contract for sales, leases, superficies, emphiteusise the land with the winner of the land trade, which offered the highest price for the land being sold, or the highest price for the use of land, recorded in the course of the land trade. To automate a number of processes, such as making bids, applying for participation, publishing all documents relating to trade and land in an electronic trading system that is publicly available and open. The order of payment or the return of the operator of the electronic course will be determined in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, have noted the need for and urgent introduction into land legislation of proposed changes to ensure the efficiency of the organization and the conduct of land trade. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy concluded that the draft act did not reveal corrupting factors, and the draft act met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. As a result of the consideration of the Committee on Budget Affairs, he concluded that the bill had a direct impact on the budgetary indicators and could lead to an increase in the revenue of government and local budgets. The Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, having considered the bill on October 30, decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. At the same time, there are valid comments that will be taken into account between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u78	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against factions. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u79	Alexander Kachura, Suga Faction. Well, I think the bill can be voted on in the first reading, but then we need to work on it. Because I was also approached by colleagues from different factions, they stressed that the starting price of land in municipal and state property would be determined by a regulatory and monetary valuation rather than an expert estimate, i.e. that it was half the cost of the market value. So here's the question: how could that be? So we vote in the first reading, and then we make the necessary changes, work together, and go out into quality law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u80	Thank you. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u81	Please pass the word to the Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u82	I'm sorry, one more time. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, our faction will support this bill in the first reading, although there are moments that need to be worked out. We can discuss for a long time which means that we are more effective in getting a transparent market for land, in principle, transparent land relations, but luckily or sadly, nothing is better than electronic auctions, so far neither in our country nor in other countries has been invented. So we will support this bill, as it allows our citizens, our entrepreneurs, our farmers to gain free and transparent access to our country's lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u84	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, you know, I'd like to touch another problem that, well, you can clearly see in the consideration of this bill. The National Anti - Corruption Agency may have made it clear to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that according to part two of article 35, Ukrainian national deputies should claim a real or potential conflict of interest. I saw three previous speakers. Tell me, please, is there a secret to their relationship and cooperation with a system like ProZorro and the companies that are there and the real owners that are there? Absolutely. These are the people who. We don't have a lobbying law right now, but according to article 35 of the Ukrainian Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act, these three previous speakers were obliged to declare a possible or real conflict of interest. By the way, any Ukrainian national MP in accordance with this law and clarification may claim such a possible conflict of interest. And I say, and these three speakers have no right to vote after that. As far as this law is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, we have clearly and clearly agreed with you that these skinheads must all be taken out of the law. Please explain to me how there can be 3-4 pads in the system that are created at budget costs that just take 3 percent of the total volume of sales as a transit function. This is absolute corruption. So I'm surprised to learn from the anti-corruption committee that there's no corruption here. But here this law is permeated by corruption. It's total corruption, it's food, it's government money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u86	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u87	At the expense of the state, there is absolutely no basis for royalty and all sorts of other things. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens have free of charge, and they need to take these pads, and they need to be only state enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u88	Thank you. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u89	Vadim Yvchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u90	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u91	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, for whom are we carrying out land reform? We're running it for a small and small manufacturer. Please tell me, at non-signatured electronics, without an electronic signature, who is the participant, will a small or medium-sized manufacturer compete with those boots or transnational corporations that will buy Ukrainian land? Will he be competitive at the price he can offer for renting the land? Well, I guess not. The criteria here are set out to make it a local manufacturer, so it's a person who actually lives and works in a village, and he's given the right? No, it's not. The other one. And who of you knows the difference between the legal and monetary valuations that the previous government has reduced by 20 percent, the market value or the expert estimate? Colleagues, today the expert estimate of Ukrainian land is 45,000 dollars. And the legal money is 25. Do you want to steal state land for $900, especially valuable land or land of the natural-intelligence fund? Colleagues, this stealing law. This law on how our land will be stored with you in various institutions in the FTC, and every village council will have access. Understand one thing: State agricultural policy must be built solely with the support of a man who works in rural areas. Therefore, the priority and the dominant right of each country, look at the experience of European countries, gives the manufacturer local, rather than a family farm that just wants access to the land. And by no means are the state lands that have moved to the reserve, and especially the valuables cannot be stolen for 24,000 dollars. "Paternality" against such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u92	Thank you. With the motive of Eugene Nina Petrovna, one minute. And let's go to the vote. Please. No, you did, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, in fact, the copyright of this bill and it also warns us. But what is essentially this bill. The chairman of the committee just said that the operator would be defined by the Kabmin, just as it was written in the draft law. If this is really going to be a system of state, independent, no middlemen, no private electronic sites that we have to deal with, and what they do in the ProZorro system, then I want to point out that in fact there is a need to allocate substantial public funds to maintain such a system. I would like to ask the authors if they are budgeted for 2020? I would also like to ask, and then how will other articles of legislation be implemented if such treaties do not require a notary certificate? Does not the Notary identify a person who is effective or ineffective and a person for whom such auctions may not be allowed at all?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u94	Thank you. 30 seconds, Papiev from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, we have now made a change to the Rules, and he foresees that if during the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies there was a proposal concerning the harmonization of others, and I have just made a statement that I should take these "lays" from ProZorro, then the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be given an assignment. And this is done under the transcript, to make changes in the preparation of the second reading. I'm asking you to secure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u96	Thank you. No, colleagues, no, you did it for reasons. You were acting out of faction. Motivated are those who did not have the opportunity to speak. And that was, for example, the EU's Yuzanina, they didn't sign up for the faction, I'm sorry. As for what Michael Papiev said. According to 116 articles, I should point out that these were issued by a committee representative, and they will need to be included during the consideration and preparation of the draft for the second reading. It's all right. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! It's still a very important thing. In all of these systems, we forget that we should necessarily have such a system of conclusion of the special authority that such systems and even a software and technology complex are ready for industrial use. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u98	Thank you. Mikhail. Please turn on Papiev's microphone. Enough of what I just said for the procedure? Turn on your Papiev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u99	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, thank you for taking the stand against these sites during the evaluation. So we have to do the same thing with these plots and cancel out these corruption schemes at ProZorro, we need these to be the functions of the state. There can be no such thing as a person who comes and collects money because he likes it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u100	It'll be a separate bill, maybe. If you bring it in. Okay. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the sale or rights to land of public and municipal property through electronic auctions (register No. 2195). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:28:08]] For 262 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 228, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 2, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 20, "non-factional" – 11. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The next in the daytime is two bills 1209, 1210, which should be discussed in full procedure. There is a suggestion to move on to the following questions, to consider them first tomorrow. Is that normal? Is it necessary to vote now or not? No, it's not. Let's move on. Bill 2359 is before you. It is necessary to vote in order to apply the ad hoc procedure for the inclusion in the agenda of the plenary and the consideration of the bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include this bill in the agenda. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:29:43]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to cut in half the deadline for the introduction of alternative bills. It also requires 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[17:30:12]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. That was the inclusion. Please support and vote. [[17:30:39]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:31:01]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Getmantsev, Danil Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u101	Thank you. I won't take long. In fact, this bill is being passed in a package with that banner that we have already voted with you on, that is, the disengagement of the gas transport network. And in fact, it refers to the changes to tax legislation that exempt this procedure from taxation. The bill is very small. The bill is supported by the committee on the basis and, please, pay attention in general and unanimously. So I ask for the purpose of the economy of time to go to the vote and support it with a green button. Thank you. Bill 2359-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Jaroslav Ivanovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, this bill, which I and several members of the "Serve of the People" Party have introduced, is a workable version that we have discussed for a long time, and yet we have accepted on the tax committee. I thank the members of the committee very much. I particularly want to thank Nina Petrovni Jujanini of the faction of European Solidarity, Olga Belkovy of the faction of "The Fatherland" for giving their proper comments, which are included in this alternative text, which was also supported by the bill. This technical bill allows us to conduct an on-band procedure. To ensure that the State company is not actually a hostage of the tax obligations involved in the transfer of property in the process of separation of the gas transport system. Since the bill is very short, it was practically supported unanimously by members of the committee. The committee proposes that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole so that our national companies can do all the work and meet their international obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against factions. Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u105	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u106	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u107	Thank you, dear colleagues. This bill has been very actively worked on by representatives of our political power, and we are also joining the common position that this bill should be voted on as a basis and in general, we will support it. But we would like to point out to colleagues that we hope that the President's signature will go to the President's signature, and that the bill that we are voting now will not be a substitute for the idea of how it happened when we voted on the bill a week ago. And then the head of one of the committees just made the floor of the bill, wrote down standards that were not voted in the session room. And we welcome President Zelensky's decision to release this deputy from office in Kabmin. Because those who make the floor in the bills cannot represent the head of state in Kabmin. And we ask you not to go on such floors anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u108	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u109	Please give the word to your colleague after the faction of Anatoly Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u110	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u111	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. We're definitely not going to support this bill, and now I'm going to explain why. For five years NAC Naftogaz ignored and blocked all attempts at anbanding, and as these facts show, the terms of such anbanding were proposed by Naftogaz itself. As a result, it became evident that the main factor for Naftogazu is neither the separation model nor the arbitration proceedings, but only the desire to secure the certification of its GTS Operator, in this case the TV "Operator GTS", its management composition is entirely dependent and linked to the management of NAC "Naftogazu". What is a fraud doing to steal money? He's creating a panic, he's creating a situation where there's not enough time, and at this point he's blackmailing all of us -- you and me, the Supreme Council, the government, the people of Ukraine -- for one purpose: to bring our schemes to an end. Now essentially this bill. And I want to draw your attention to the fact that in 2015 Naftogaz was overestimated by the government's property dozens of times. They overestimated the cost of 356 billion dollars. And that's how Naftogaz got about 120 billion dollars in the amount of depreciation and about 80 billion dollars in profit, 200 billion dollars in addition to NAC Naftogaz. Where's the money? And why are they not enough to pay taxes? Why do we exempt ourselves from these taxes? Therefore, we will not participate in this fraudulent scheme, and we urge the deputies to find out what we are being forced to do under the terms of the bandling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u112	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u113	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I want to say that the opposition platform for life is not going to support this bill. I also agree with this thesis on exemption from taxation, we don't have to do this kind of surgery. But what I want to focus on is this. Since January 1, 2020, at 10 a.m., Ukraine An agreement on the transit of natural gas into Europe is concluded. We have repeatedly warned that where more important is the question of loading the gas system with natural gas. In the past year, we've been transiting gas for 93 billion cubic meters, in the past 87 billion cubic meters, in the next year, this figure could be halved, or even more. And the main question here is that after the construction of the North Stream 2, after the launch of the Turkish Stream, after the full launch of the Jamal-Europe pipeline, Ukraine could completely lose the load of Ukraine's gas transport system, it could become a scrap metal. So our party insists, and we actually went with it to the electorate and suggested that a tripartite gas consortium be created with the participation of the supplier, the transitor of the country, and the final consumer of natural gas. You can't have lining companies and operators, gas operators making money on tariffs and other things. For Ukraine, it is vital to save about $3 billion in income from Ukraine’s budget, for it is social benefits and many other things. That's why we think that the government needs to tackle, not primitive things, but globally and strategically, the issue of the long-term loading of Ukraine's gas transport system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Let's go to the vote. I'm betting on a vote on a proposal for acceptance as a basis with the necessary. on the adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the creation of conditions to ensure compliance with Ukraine's obligations to separate natural gas transport activities under the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Establishment of the Energy Community and taking into account the relevant provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand (Registration No. 2359-1). Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. First, on the ground. And then. We'll be right there. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:40:51]] For 280 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a committee proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Ready to vote? Okay. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. Yeah. Do you mind? What factions against? Two factions against. Three factions against. Okay. Then there is the suggestion to shorten half the preparation period for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. In accordance with article 16, I am voting on the proposal to shorten the deadlines for preparing for the second reading and making proposals for Bill 2359-1. Please support and vote: cut the lines by half. Please support and vote. [[17:42:06]] For 273 Thank you. For 273. Decision taken. A word of motivation is given to Minister Orgel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for supporting the bill that is required for the bill. And I would also like to now vote and support the transposition of Bill 2249 to consider it now. Bill 2249 provides for the necessary changes in order for us to make the contractual relations that are on the old gas transport operator without procedures that we will not be able to make any more. to a new operator who will be independent and certified in accordance with European legislation. I ask you very much to support the transfer and review now 2249.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, there is a minister's request to move. No, look, there's a turning point, I'm not. We do not necessarily do that. There's a request -- we can listen or we can't. There's an offer to listen. Yes, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, I see. Puppy, I can see that, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, there can only be an offer from a subject who can be put to the vote. The minister is nobody here right now, he's just here, and if there's our agreement, yes, he can comment on some. You can't have any proposal from a minister, you don't have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u118	I didn't put it up, Mikhail. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I did not put this proposal to the vote. And with your permission, if I put it on, I will. I gave the floor to the minister so that he could appeal to the Supreme Council. If there's an agreement in the room, I'll put it to a vote if necessary. Or perhaps there will be an agreement to consider the matter without a vote. Are there any objections to this or not? There's a denial. Alexy Yuriovich, are you insisting on the performance? With the motive of a minute, Kucherenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u119	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. With your permission, I'd like to ask a question to the minister, a member of the government. Now, three weeks ago, you and I had been wondering about this so-called banding, which, as I said in the previous speech, would have been in a totally calm environment over the last three years, and we wouldn't have had any trouble. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. On September 18, your government passed a decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u120	I'm sorry. Alexi Juryovich, I apologize, but this is not a question for the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u121	All right, I'll let you know. Not a question. The question is off, I'll inform my colleagues. On September 18, it was adopted by the Government of Decree 840, which was the very purpose of the government to draft a bill on how to end the project. The first one was Minister of Economics of Milovanov. It wasn't about selling the land, it was about getting an airbending, it was about the law. And if we saw the signatures of ministers and government and heads of government, then believe me, there would be someone to ask. Instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u122	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, we're talking. Minister, we're talking about 2249, aren't we? Dear colleagues, there is an offer to move this issue forward and consider it now. It's a change in the order of the day. Are you willing to do so or are you insisting on voting? Voting. Okay. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for consideration of the matter (registration number 2249) now. It's a change in the order of the day. If you don't mind, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] If we look at it, the author of Podlas will come out and act if that's what you want. Ready to vote? Does the podlaza agree? As far as the question is concerned now. Yeah. He doesn't mind. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:46:56]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 2249: draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Wait a minute. Dear colleagues, we need to decide on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the plenary session. Please support and vote. [[17:48:42]] For 264 I don't know, Mikailo Mikolaiovich, who's resting and where, in which regions and not even our state. But this bill is in order of the day. You've seen him. And I don't think there's been any denial or violation of the Rules right now. Do you agree? What's wrong with him? Raise it, please. It's all right. It's all right. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to apply the ad hoc procedure for the consideration and decision-making of this plenary session on this bill. Please support and vote. [[17:49:38]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[17:50:01]] For 257 Decision taken. The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee. She's also the author, so four minutes, both from the committee and from the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, we have passed a bill to separate the gas transport system from the Naftogaz Group. We already have a new gas system operator as an independent organization. Since January 1st, it will be fully detached and handed over to the State Stock Exchange Association "Ukrainian Gas Pipeways". At the same time, the government asked the Economic Development Committee to regulate the procedure for public procurement for a transitional period. The effective work of the new GTS operator is a national issue. Our model of anbandling meets the requirements of the Third Energy Package and paves the way for a new transit contract in accordance with European rules. Bill 2249 proposes two novels. First. Allow the former operator of the gas transport system PAT "Ukrattransgaz" to convert the contract into a new GTS operator only once. This is about contracts for public procurement of jobs, goods, and services that are necessary to service the GTS. The Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement does not provide for such a possibility. But Crutranzaz and the Ukrainian Motorways are two state-owned companies with strategic state assets. And we have to provide continuous service to the GTS. Another novel. We suggest that we allow the new GTS operator to purchase goods, jobs and services in Skrtrangaz for 3 months without a tender, but only if such purchases are necessary for the operation of the gas transport system and gas shelters. It's mostly about buying services that provide service to the branches of Skrtransgazu. Here it is important to understand that this law will be temporary. He'll be out of commission in three months, but not later than the new edition of the Public Procurement Act (formerly Law 1076). You know that I am one of the deputies who consistently advocate creating the same rules of play for all operators. I also object to the creation of additional exceptions to the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. But in the event of a malfunction in the GTS, there is a risk that natural gas transit will stop and therefore the export of pipeline services will be lost. This will mean that Ukrainian exports will stop increasing and GDP will slow down. We can't let that happen. Therefore, I would like to support these temporary measures to ensure the work of the GTS and Ukraine's energy independence. The Economic Development Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 2249 as a basis and as a whole as a technical law, replacing in paragraph 3 of the first part of the draft law the words “for six months” with the words “for three months”. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u124	Thank you. Please register: two in, two in the opposite, from factions. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the High Council's evening session for 15 minutes, until the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u125	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Head, the presidency, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" is ready to support this bill on the basis. He cannot be supported in the first and second readings. In general, this editorial, which has GNEU's comments and has even a note by the Supreme Council committee, is fundamental because there are opaque risks and there is a lack of clear clear interpretation of certain areas that are reflected in this law. Third position. On the one hand, it's a very clear and simple question that the creation of a new gas transport system operator needs to be transferred not only to the assets of Ukratransgas, but to the procurement contracts that were previously made. The first is to make this a one-time permit, to replace the parties in valid contracts, and to make new agreements with the Ukratransgas without complying with the rules of the Procurement Act. And the second important block that the Supreme Council committee is professional and the chief economic administration sees the risks and proposes to take the basis, the arguments can't be a heated season. And most importantly, in this position, that the discussion that took place at our committee meeting was of a fundamental nature, unanimously, accordingly, we understood both the strong and the weak. So, Mr. Head, I suggest you support this as a basis today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u126	Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u127	Puppy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u128	Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u129	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Dear Ukrainians, honourable deputies! The Fatherland faction will not be able to support this bill and does not recommend doing so to the deputies for the following reasons. I don't want to repeat myself once again, as you and I and all Ukrainians have been forced into the veritable leadership of the Naftogazu NAC. And, first of all, the new government and the new government would have to make an audit of NAC Naftogazu's leadership, the independent so-called Naftogazu Observation Board, which led to the collapse of all production growth programs, the collapse of the enbandling, and the bankruptcy of the Ukrattransgas. The wonderful author of this bill noted that he and this model of anband corresponded to some European models. I'm not sure about that. I can only say one thing. The Fatherland faction has been fighting for several weeks to ensure that the model of this so-called banding, our interests to you, was in line with the interests of the Ukrainians in order to prevent them from being stolen and removed from control by the State of the gas transport system and the shelter. What he's trying to do is, unfortunately, take the lead of the Naftogazu NAC with the help of the government. And the last. I would like to point out that this bill of yours has a very large, very dangerous rule that old contracts can work with a new operator. So there are all the risks that old-time corruption schemes for a gas transport operator will be transferred without tenders to a new operator and put on tariff with you Ukrainians. We don't support this affair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u130	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u131	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You know, one day I look at the order of these bills, and I have a lot of questions. I can't imagine that some previous government would have passed such bills, and instead of accepting human resources issues here in the Supreme Council and releasing the head of the NAC "Naftogazu" of Ukraine, there's something the minister is telling, something other lobbyists are telling. Dearly beloved, three years of my time, I have a question: could Kobolev, with such a salary, prepare for this process in three years? Meg. I have no claim to a minister today because he's only been working for two months. Why didn't the minister today say that, Your Honor, back me up in this law, the government made a decision, appealed to the Supervisory Board on the liberation of Kobolev and in parallel turned to the NAB, to the DBD and everything else about these things, which, apart from everything else in the NAC "Naftogaz of Ukraine" was done to bring to justice? It's not there. Explain one more thing to me. We had a vote in Law 2239-1, and we were going to be on the air. It's not signed today. And there's a decree made by the Fatherland faction that forbids the Head of the Supreme Council to sign. How can we, without having a basic law on the basis of which there are already changes to procurement procedures? And please tell me again the question to our anti-corruption committee. Ladies and gentlemen, when we're told that there's a one-time deviation, and the limit on how many times you can buy is no, it's pure corruption. Once you're told that it's a one-time thing and it doesn't specify the deadline to use this law and conduct purchases without procedure or violation of it, it's pure corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u132	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u133	That's why the Opposition Platform for Life faction won't support your corruption. We will vote against it, and we urge you to do it. And think a little bit about it when you're asked to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is Jaroslav Železniak, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak, Voice with motives. And then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Turn on the iron wire.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, this is a strange situation. If you open this bill, it's made up of just one page and actually two standards. So I opened up an anti-corruption committee decision, and he doesn't see the risks here. I've opened up the decision of the Euro-Integration Committee, and he can't see the risks. This is a technical bill that we need as a country to become energy independent. So our faction will support this bill on the basis. Also, to prevent us from risking failure to meet our international obligations, I propose that we cut back on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and take your seats. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Public Procurement in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (registration No. 2249). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? 2249. People's MP Urbanski, on the ground? Based on that, yes. Please support and vote. [[18:02:35]] For-286 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee recommends the adoption of this bill as a whole. Ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just Kucherenko against or anyone else against? Do you mind? I don't mind. Mikhail Miklaiovich, I beg you very much, you are, like all, "for," one of you. Please, let's put it to a vote, there will be no votes. Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, thank you for understanding everyone. The other one. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Law on Public Procurement in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (registration No. 2249). Please support and vote. [[18:03:55]] For 266 The law was passed in general. Thank you, dear colleagues, for a lovely evening. I'm announcing it. For reasons, wait. From motive, wait, wait, wait. Suffritch is a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u137	Now we've demonstrated the principle of a position: by voting against the bill itself, we didn't delay its consideration. This is the true responsible attitude of the faction toward the consideration of matters in the hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u138	Thank you. I would like to thank all the factions for their constructive activities in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u139	And we don't forget the card.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-14-m1.u140	We don't forget the card. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. I remind you, tomorrow morning's meeting will begin at 10 a.m.
