ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Good morning, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I suggest we start our work. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. Colleagues, please prepare. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[10:11:43]] 396 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion and decision - making today is given to you. Let us go to their consideration. Out of procedure, Heroshchenka, one minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dmitri, dear colleagues! European Solidarity welcomes the fact that we have returned to compliance with the Rules these days. And I hope that the entire session room saw how right it was to look at the bills in the first reading and then in the second. But today we have again, Mr. Dmitri, a good chance to break the Rules. Because a number of bills that are very important, which will depend on the fate of millions of people in the judicial system, the expertise, these bills will be considered without a table. The session hall has not yet received the tables for most of the bills that we will now consider in the second reading. And that's a very serious violation, because we're going to be looking at these bills as blind people. I would like to point out that, according to the procedure, every MP has the right to consult the table of amendments so that we can work with this professionally. There's still no chart. Moreover, there are several bills in the second reading that are still just a committee today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u3	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u4	There are several bills that will be considered by the committee only today in the break. Maybe we should move them to tomorrow, but let's get to know the tables? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u5	Irina Volodymyrna, I think the apparatus will be ready for consideration and you will be given tables as it should be. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. First question. Draft law. You have been given a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev. It is proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session. If there is no need for discussion, then. No, it's not. Then I invite Klochko, head of the committee. Andrew Klochko! Andrew Klochko! Andrew Andriyovich, explain why it is necessary to include him in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development took note of the fact that Parliament has registered our project, the Ukrainian Law on the Capital of Ukraine, the City of Kiev (registration No. 2143). This is an important bill that allows you to separate the mandate of the mayor. Kiev’s head and head of the Kyiv government. This does not allow us to have the situation that we have today, but allows the Chinese to gain power over our Kiev and to gain a normal city, so that we can live in a normal city without obstacles. To live by the law that every cyanide wants to see the city better, better. And we want to see that there's not one master in the city as it is today, and that's not exactly the master, but there's a person who's elected is the mayor, and there's a person who runs the finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u7	Thank you. A moment of motive. You don't? One minute. Please turn on the microphone. Alexeiovich Honcharenko Turn on the potter's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Honcherenko Alexei, European Solidarity, north of Odessa. Dear friends, if we are to propose such a decision, we must now offer to lift the line of Magdebourg law that stands in Kiev as a symbol of local self - government. And this is another witness to the onset of local self-government that is happening here and now. There is an exclusive list of the reasons why early elections can take place. You didn't say, the reporter, the main one you're proposing to appoint on December 8th the election of Kiev's city head and city council. Why? Because I just want to take power in Kiev here and now. I see our president has learned well, you know, it's a saying, "Cook iron while it's hot." But once you've forgotten, there's another saying, as we say in Odessa, "The guy's greed is lost." And so I want to remind everyone: you can't do things like this and you can't step on the rights of local self-government. This is Europe and this is the only way of developing our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u9	Thank you. I would like to remind you that this question is now being included in the agenda of the day session, not being considered essentially. Therefore, if there is no objection, please support and vote. I put to the vote the question of putting the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the City of Ukraine, the City of Kiev, into the agenda of the day. Please support and vote. [[10:18:06]] For 237 Against 45, holding 56. I propose, in accordance with article 50, part three, that the Rules should be reduced by half by the time of the introduction of alternative bills. Please support and vote. [[10:18:35]] For 235 Against 64, holding 35. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been introduced to the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to ensure the transparency of the ownership of software providers of multichannel digital broadcasts with national coverage (registration number 2035). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:19:25]] For 247 Against 19, holding up 73. Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u10	Good morning, dear fellows! This bill about what you see on your screens. At the end of last year, according to our international commitments to Geneva-2006, so-called analog air language was cut off. This is free speech when all the viewers of Ukraine can watch television on the air. Now this is being done through the digit, and it's only being done by one provider. If the same language was previously provided by the State, it is now a company called Zeonbud, owned by five citizens of Latvia, one citizen of Great Britain, and registered on remote and warm islands. This is a question of the country's information security, because this language receives almost 40 percent of the population of Ukraine, and we would like to apply for the transparency of the company's property, which makes speech for virtually every Ukrainian citizen. Once again, it's an information security issue. We wouldn't want the owners of the aggressor state to hide behind these owners, even though it's actually the secret of Polischenel, who these owners are, and it'll be interesting to look and find out. And we predict that under this law the owners of such a company may be Ukrainian citizens. I ask your support, once again, this is a matter of national information security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u11	Thank you, Alexander Vladislavovich. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Poturayev Mikiti Ruslanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u12	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, colleagues! The Committee on Humanities and Information Policy considered draft Law No. 2035 at its meeting on September 17, 2019. The bill provides for the introduction of a series of requirements for founders, participants, software providers in general and software providers of multichannel digital broadcasts, with national coverage in particular. The fulfilment of these requirements will ensure the transparency of the ownership of software providers and prevent the potential illegal influence of the aggressor State on Ukraine's television information space. It is also envisaged to set similar requirements for telecommunications operators who operate services for the provision of technical services and the operation of multichannel digital television networks and nationwide radio coverage. As a result of the discussion, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 2035 on the basis of which it was entrusted to the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy to develop it into a second reading. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy concluded that there were no corruption factors in Bill No. 2035, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, expressed a number of observations and suggestions that could be based on Bill 2035. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u13	Thank you. I suggest you sign up for two, two, against the factions. Smogluk. Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u14	I give the word of Eugenia Kravchuk, "Serve of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u15	Eugenia Mikhailna Kravchuk, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to support Bill No. 2035 to correct the abnormal situation we're in right now. We have a monopolist provider that can be drawn by the strings of property, and we don't understand where these strings lead. We cannot allow the operation of critical infrastructure, to which digital broadcasting can now be fully diverted, to the fullest extent possible, into the hands of the enemy. Our legislation requires a transparent ownership structure for television channels, but it does not require that we do so with a monopolist on whom the stable work of these television channels depends. In wartime, including information war, there is a very high risk of blocking Ukrainian information space. To avoid that, please support Bill 2035. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given to Savras ’ Maxim Vitaliovich, a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u18	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u19	Nikola Leonidovich Knieżicki
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u20	Guys, what are you talking about? At the time of Yanukovich, an artificial monopoly was created, called Zeonbud, which uses state distribution networks, placed its small transmitters and thus held the entire information space in hand. Every new authority that comes in wants to take it for itself in some illegal way. This law is an attempt to take Zeonbud, which is to give it to another owner. So even if the Ukrainians are the founders of this channel, it will result in relicence, but it will not lead to knowledge of who is the real owner. Remember when we had Podzkopkov's master, he owned Channel 112, and everyone said, "Where did he get the money?" The committee is blocking my bill on transparency of all property and all financing, instead introducing this artificial bill to change the owner in Zeonbud, take him to four or three oligarchic families and pass him over to another oligarchic family in the form of relicensing. But the authors of the law failed to point out one rule that this law changes parts of the licensing of telecommunications operators. And yesterday we voted in favour of canceling that license at all, and that was the law. Project 1050. So actually, by trying to raid Zeonbud now and give it away from three of the oligarchs to others, instead of demonolysing it, putting it on the state surpluses of a public provider, letting foreign investment go, we're offered a fair law in the form of transparency, covering it up with national security, to which there's no connection, and you're offered to be not servants of the people, but servants of one oligarch. But by upholding the principles of transparency, we will not oppose this bill, we will abstain, and you will think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Kiva Elijah. Pauline Yuri, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Undoubtedly, the purpose of the bill is to achieve and ensure the transparency of the property of software providers. Along with the bill, in our view, this goal is not being achieved, but it is simply an attempt to change the owner and the new authority team to take over the business that works today. In fact, the bill itself has numerous warnings and observations. In particular, the bill itself is constantly talking about a nationwide provider, and at the same time, neither in the law itself nor in other laws is defined, but what is "national coverage": it is 10, 20 percent, 40 percent or 100 percent of the territory or consumers. And what's more, it's not defined, and who's going to call it and define it. It's a national, national coverage. Secondly, additional powers are given to the National Council on Television and Radio Communication, which should request documents from the relevant provider or providers, as the law says. Rather, the conditions of such a request are not clearly stated, and this may lead to reasons for leaving the documents alone, or to other problems at all. In our view, this law also limits property rights and blocks foreign investment and violates foreign investors. And the fact that the additional reason for redesigning national coverage providers is that changes in the ownership structure of the applicant, in our view, are equally dangerous and only confirm the fact that no one plans to achieve transparency of ownership by this law, but simply wants to capture the existing one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u23	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u24	That's why the faction of the Opposition Platform for Life is not going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u25	Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u26	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, the moment of truth has come. We're going to find out, so who's been brainwashing our citizens these years, who's behind this incomprehensible provider. The only thing we understand is companies from Belize, from the British Virgin Islands. But who is this person? Perhaps those who have opposed this bill will have a last name? Who is this secret citizen or citizens who somehow influence the consciousness of millions of our fellow citizens? The "Paternity" faction requires the first, no doubt, publicity, and it should be defined in the law, and then, I think, we need to figure it out, and who gives the permission. Whether we publish again, let's eat all of this and continue to be unpunished by those under the Yanukovich regime and then, because everyone remembers when they started insisting on the introduction of these providers, when they were covering up traditional language, pretending that it was a know-how, that it was new technology, and that the citizens of Latvia, who were actually running it now through offshore jurisdiction. Are the citizens Latvia? Aren't these the citizens of the aggressor country? That is why we support this bill in the first reading. Unfortunately, there are contradictions between parts. We think we need to work on it immediately, we need to expose the owner, we need to call it -- and then we need to make a decision that it should be a Ukrainian company, and it can't be an aggressor country in any way, and it's going to be in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u27	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u28	Congratulations, dear friends, dear colleagues. The MP Group also supports this bill and thinks it's a matter of national security and defence in fact because there can't be any monopolistics in such a queen, all the more so as we understand that the Zeonboud was surrounded by former President Janukovic. But we also point out that among the providers of services, legal and physical persons, there is no aggressor country. But neither did the owners of the aggressor country in the Television and Radio Act. Obviously, this trend needs to be rectified in the Television and Radio Act. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" votes in favour of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u29	Natalia. Is it? Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u30	Thank you very much. Good morning! Thank you so much for finally paying attention and we're going back to discussing our main private provider, and we're forgetting our national capabilities, which are not really meant to be just our community, the Council in terms of war and probably military television. Thank you for the fact that this story, which has been going on since 2011, and for the incomprehensible ways of obtaining a license, can come to an end. And in the 20th year, we're going to mention that they're running out of licenses. We actually support the position on the framework of this bill, and we think it's probably time to get on the white water and show, really, who's behind all the sad Zeonbuds. But we will also make adjustments. Because foreign companies that are registered in offshore areas are not allowed to own at all levels. We also wanted this to apply to all the speakers using the radio frequency, including radio, television, and all the providers. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u31	Give me 10 seconds to finish Samantha.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u32	We'll hold out. But thank you for the canvas and the framework bills you've submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues! All those who wish have been dulled. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 2035) amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure transparency of the ownership of software providers of multichannel digital television networks with national coverage. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:35:08]] For 290 Against 22, holding on to 44. Show me the factions, please. Decision taken. "Serve of the People" – 236, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 17. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut in half the preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 2035. Please support and vote. [[10:35:59]] For 259. Against 17, holding, 64. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act on improving the procedure for the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio (registration No. 2036). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:36:46]] For 261 Against 17, holding 58. Decision taken. The draft law will be considered as a simplified procedure. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u34	I can't help but comment on the last discussion. I was delighted by the touching association of some colleagues — all for the transparency of the provider’s property. But it hasn't been interesting in the last 10 years, and now they're against it. Bravo! Regarding the National Council on Television and Radio. This is an organ that is designed to control radio and television in Ukraine, which consists of 8 people: 4 is chosen from the President, 4 is actually from the Supreme Council. This law is aimed at the continuity of the activities of the National Council. This is a fairly important national body that allows the control of speech in Ukraine all the time. We want to introduce this bill so that during the reintroduction of power it may not be possible to block the activities of the National Council. The mandate of three members of the National Council of the Supreme Council is about to end, and as long as we announce the competition, there is a question of the power and rightfulness of voting on the National Council. To ensure that these issues do not arise, we suggest that we immediately select those members of the National Council in which the mandates end. That'll do. It's a rating vote. But we would like to see the continuity of activity happen and there is no way to block the activity of this, an extremely important organ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u35	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Crawchuk Eugenia Mikhailni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, Mr. Golovo, we discussed Bill 2036 at the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy on September 17, 2019. Its main task is to ensure the continuous work of the National Council on Television and Radio. To resolve this task, the bill proposes that members of the Nakrad be given the right to carry out their duties in order to appoint new members at the time of the contest. It is also proposed to improve the procedure for the release and appointment by the Parliament of the members of the Nacradah, by legislatively strengthening the responsibilities of the simultaneous appointment of their members to all vacant posts. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of draft Law No. 2036 on a basis and as a whole. The main scientific and expert office has expressed a number of warnings about certain provisions of the bill, which are essentially not an obstacle to the adoption of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for factions: two for, two for, and two for the performance. Leros Geo Bagratovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask you to support this bill, because as long as there is a competition for the election of the new members of the Nacrada, the structure in question makes it impossible to do the job for two months at a time. So I ask everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u39	Thank you. Bobrovska Solomiya, Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Support what is actually the right position, but still give you the opportunity to work and not be. so that there are no vacancies in Nacradis, which is critical, especially in the last five years. And this is the right canvas and frame that we would like to support. But it's a little strange for us, because it didn't go through the committee and it doesn't have a conclusion and an anti-corruption expertise. So for us, we would like to hear the answer to the question of why this happened and why this bill had gone to our table before the discussion would be grateful. We're not going to do much of the same thing, and then we're going to do it again. We don't understand a package assignment. Why, at a time when you actually have a majority, and more than just a majority, is there a question for a batch assignment, not for every member of the Nacradis, who will enter his position in the hall? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u42	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please pass the word to Pauline Yuri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u43	Pavlenko Yuri Alexiyovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u44	Honourable Head, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! The drafters stress that the purpose of the project is to ensure the continuity of the National Council’s work on television and radio. But does this law set a goal? Oh, no. In fact, the bill only preserves the current situation and preserves the current composition of the National Council, which has been shown by practice to have begun to carry out very quickly and well the new tasks of the authorities in the pursuit of independent media. I would like to remind you that one of the most recent decisions of the National Council has been to refer television newsOne to the court, which, in our view, the National Council has grossly exceeded its authority, interfered with the editorial policy of the television channel, which is expressly prohibited by the Constitution of Ukraine, because it is nothing but censorship. I am sure that there is another point, and we all know that the three members of the National Council have reached the end of the five - year term. That is, with the end of this five - year term, in our view, the members of the Nakrad cannot exercise their authority. The term is clearly set in article 4 of the National Council Act, which states that upon completion of the term, the authority is suspended. Article 5 obliges the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw, suspend the authorization of members of the Nacrada, and announce a recompetition. That is why we stress that this law should not be approved. And we're going to the Supreme Council Head and the profile committee meet the requirement, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law: to announce the competition. And this is the composition of the National Council in its entirety to resign. You can do this from the C.I.V.C.A., and you don't want to do that with your subordinated and controlled organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u45	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u46	Regrettably, the adoption of this law in the way it is will make an independent constitutional body dependent on one political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u47	Thank you. The word is given to Princess Nikola Leonidovich, the faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u48	Friends, especially those factions that call themselves democratic and voted in favour of a past law that allows a carpet to pass from one oligarch-monopolist artificial provider to another. I am now addressing all of you: What is this law about? It has two parts, one part, unlike its opponent who has just spoken, we are just supporting the Nakrad to act continuously, there are no questions. But the second part is a batch vote. If we had previously voted in favour of every member of the Nacrada from television, who was sitting here in the hall, had the opportunity to speak, to present himself, there was a rating vote, there was a competition, now they're proposing to vote for all four packets. Why? To agree under the carpet, as some people say, the non-parliamentary term: not to leave each other in the vote for the next and the package to vote on the members of the National Council. There is no such rule in any national regulator of Europe. So if you want to give Nakrad some controlled hands, vote. If you are in favour of the European choice, for the Association Agreement, for the implementation of the directives of the European Union and the Council of Europe, do not vote, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u49	Thank you. All of them. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u50	May I have a word with Mrs. Larissa Bilozer, MP for the Future?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u51	Larissa Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, our Group "For the Future" believes that the idea set out in the bill on the continuity of the functioning of the Television and Radio Broadcasting Foundation is worthy of support, since it is finally granted to a member of the National Council the right to assume duties for the appointment of a new member and the obligation to appoint members of the National Council at the same time for all vacancies. Although it is not clear why the rule for the members of the Board to exercise their powers before the appointment of a new member is reproduced only in the article on appointment of members of the Supreme Council and is not reproduced in the article on appointment of members by the President. And it's obvious that the norm that tells us that we need to accept this package will create the probability that there will be a situation where the appointment of the members will fail on purpose, so that the members themselves will carry out these mandates indefinitely. That's why our Future Group thinks it's appropriate to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u53	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u54	It is appropriate to adopt the bill as a basis and, while further developing the second reading, to revise the rules on the appointment of all relevant members of the Nacraada at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u55	Thank you. The reason is given by Tkachenko Alexandro Vladislavovich. And, people's deputies, please prepare, then let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u56	I'd like to point out that this is not about batch voting, it's about rating voting at the same time. To avoid the fact that one member of the Nacradia got sick, the other one went on a cruise, the third wedding -- and the Nacrad was not effective. This is primarily so that the National Council can work peacefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u57	Sobolev Sergey Vladislavovich, faction of the Fatherland, with motives. And, dear fellows, once again, prepare for the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u58	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! This is the only warning if you've given attention to practically all the factions. And if, in fact, the key rule is that this is a rating simultaneous vote, we have practice and a request for this very warning to vote in the first reading. Then, I take it, the warnings of a series of factions will be removed. I mean, simultaneously, the rating vote, as the committee head said. And then we'll be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No, you had your word, sorry. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act to improve the procedure for the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. I put to the vote in the first reading on the basis of proposals that came from the committee’s head and were supported by other factions. — Registration No. 2036. Please support and vote. [[10:50:01]] For 292 Against 26, holding 26. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 227, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 17, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 12, "the Non-Factional" – 19. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for preparing for the second reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting (Registration No. 2036) on improving the procedure for the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio (Registration No. 2036). Please support and vote. [[10:51:04]] For 252 Against 26, holding 58. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have come to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products (registration number 1062). This is the second reading of the bill. The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, this is a bill on half-conductors. During these two weeks, the deputies of all factions learned what half - leaders are, who manufactures them in Ukraine, and how many. I am glad that at least the educational goal has been achieved. But I want to emphasize two important things. First. Bill 1062 is non-discriminatory, it simplifies the conditions for the protection of ownership of micro-system design to everyone: for large companies and for small inventors, and for Ukrainian manufacturers, and for foreign investors. The other one. Project 1062 implements the position of the Association Agreement, namely the articles starting from 224 to 227. You may not like the Association Agreement, but harmonising Ukrainian legislation with European legislation is the way to build a civilized investment space here and today. You can argue whether this bill is needed right now and whether it should have been determined as an urgent one, but I'm sure it serves the Ukrainian economy as a whole. During the drafting of the bill, 10 comments and suggestions from Ukrainian national deputies were received to the committee for the second reading, with nine taken into account and one rejected. The committee then decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products (registration number 1062) as a result of the consideration to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law with further technical and legal processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee, in my view, has worked quite effectively on this bill. We've only got one negative right, this is number 6 (Yvchenko Vadim Evgenovich). Vadim Evgenovich, you insist. He's not here, is he? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, I suggest we prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products (registration number 1062). It is suggested that we accept it in the second reading and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Heads of factions, please invite the national deputies to the hall! Dear colleagues, please take your seats. You've been walking around the hall a lot. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. Stop voting. [["10:55:47]] For 236 Colleagues, please sit down and press. And then there'll be questions again why someone pressed for you, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] For 236, against 11, holding 49. Decision taken. Show the factions, please. The "People's Servant" faction – 193, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 4, "Voice" – 18, "non-factional" – 8. Thank you. Decision taken. The vote took place before I stopped it, so let's not go back. I think it's going to be more effective now because everybody's had coffee, everyone's back to their jobs. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on improving financial restructuring. This is the second reading, the registration number of Law 1070. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u62	Good afternoon, Presidium. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We have prepared in the Committee for second reading a bill of 1070 amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the procedure for financial restructuring. I'll remind you what financial restructuring is. Financial restructuring is a procedure within which a debtor can restructure its debts to credit or credit institutions. This bill is temporary. It shuts down its operation in October this year, so we propose, on the one hand, that we continue the law, on the other hand, we propose to make some changes to the financial restructuring procedure that would allow it to improve, make it easier, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to expand the possibilities for applying the financial restructuring procedure, such as rights or participation in the financial restructuring of the related creditors. The committee was given a number of amendments, which were considered by the majority. In this regard, I propose that this bill be supported in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u63	Thank you. After the repairs. Yeah. Yes, sir. Bondarev. All adjustments are included. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments that have been made to you have been taken into account. An amendment that is spoken of by an honourable colleague will now be given by the committee’s chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u64	Corrections to the Honourable Deputy Bondarev were submitted after the end of the unsigned period. So we didn't count them in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u65	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. I don't think there'll be any more questions? Dear colleagues! All the amendments that were made to the committee were. And the proposals, they were taken into account. Therefore, no correction was rejected. That is why I propose and put to the vote the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve the financial restructuring procedure (registration No. 1070). I suggest you accept it in the second reading and in general, taking into account technical legal rights. Dear colleagues, are we all ready to vote? Did everyone take their seats? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please support and vote. [[11:00:57]] For-300 Against two, hold on to 17. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislations of Ukraine on the Priorities of the Reform of the Prosecutor's Office (Registration No. 1032). The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich. Dennis Anatolyovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Law Protection prepared a draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on first-hand measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office (Registration No. 1032) in the second reading. As you know, this bill was designated by the President as urgent and was voted on by us on September 10, 2019, on the first reading. In fact, the bill itself is aimed at fully relaunching the prosecutor’s office. The bill received 197 proposals and amendments from Ukrainian national deputies, of which 101 were taken into account and 96 were rejected. I'm commenting on the largely rejected amendments that suggested leaving a valid version of the Procurator's Act in a number of articles, as well as those that had actually ruined the concept of the bill itself. Thus, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 1032 on second reading and as a whole. Therefore, I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this important bill and to vote on it with appropriate editorial and technical clarifications. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Denis Anatoliyovich, I ask you to be in the rostrum so that if questions arise, we can answer them promptly. Dear colleagues, the first amendment that was rejected is the amendment number 3 of Alekseyev. Are you insisting on your right? He's not in the hall. 6 revisions, Aleksiev. 7th Amendment, Aleksiev. 9th Amendment, Aleksiev. 10 revisions, Aleksiev. 11th Amendment, Alekseiv. 12 revisions, and so does Alexeiev. 15th, Alekseyev. 17th, Alekseyev. 19th, Grissom. Are you insisting? Give me a minute to make the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u68	Colleagues, I have suggested that, first of all, the proposed amendments to article 7 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, which provides that, if necessary, the decisions of the Attorney-General may create specialized prosecutors on the rights of the structural unit of the Attorney-General's Office. to the rights of the district attorney's department, to the rights of the district attorney's department. What is it? The point is, there's a prosecutor's system in the country. And unfortunately, only the Attorney General can't provide the work of this system. There should be a balance between the work of the Attorney General and the other departments of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So I insist that this is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u69	Thank you. Do you insist on voting for an amendment? Dear colleagues, I'm putting 19 people's deputies to the vote. The committee. Excuse me, committee, your position? Denis Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u70	The committee's position was to reject this amendment. So please don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u71	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of 19 People's Deputies of the Greeb. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:05:54]] For-27 Against 73, holding up to 180. The decision is not taken. The next one is number 20, People's Deputy Nadjajchenko. Are you insisting? You insist. Turn on the maintenance microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u72	Valentin Nastavajchenko, Julia Timoshenko's Fatherland faction. We carefully and thoroughly worked out the bill. We really insist on cleaning up and updating the entire prosecutor's office, especially the Attorney General's office. The other one. We expect that this bill, by becoming law, will have the first effect of bringing criminal responsibility to all the viceroys of the High Offices of the Attorney General once. Confiscating all that they've been stealing by using positions and by falsifying criminal conduct, two. And the third. We have analysed the world's best experience and we propose in this amendment that we introduce in the Attorney General's Office, in district and district prosecutors special departments to investigate the most resonant cases, the most dangerous criminal offences against Ukrainian citizens, based primarily on openness and accessibility for Ukrainian citizens, for our citizens. Please take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Committee position, Denis Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u74	Discard this amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u75	Thank you. I'll bet on the vote number 20 of the People's Deputies. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:07:37]] For-48 Thank you. For 48, for 54, for 187. Edit rejected. Amendment No. 21, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u76	I insist. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u77	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u78	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Colleagues, our faction in the first reading of this bill voted almost all to support it in the first reading. But I gave the task to the experts who are in our faction to prepare the papers. We've prepared them, we've served them. Sadly, they were all rejected. And this law applies, but it does apply to the military prosecutor's office, which we propose to leave in the general system of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office. Motivation is very simple. I believe that a country that is at war cannot deprive the authorities of military expertise that can work in conditions of war. And in wartime, they can investigate criminal cases that are happening and occurring in the OOS. That's why I'm asking you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Dennis Anatolyovich, position of committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u80	Well, not just this bill, but many others that apply to the military prosecutor's office, I want to explain that the previous article was that the Attorney-General's decision would create a specialized prosecutor's office, where prosecutors would work, which would lead the trial investigation of war crimes. This was repeatedly claimed by the Attorney General himself and, indeed, this article provides for this. So this amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u81	Andrew Anatolyevich, do you insist on voting? Honourable MPs, I am putting to the vote number 20 of the People’s Deputies of Cosemiakin. It's a committee of hers. Sorry, 21. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. [[11:09:56]] For-59 Against 48, holding 21. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Let's move on to the next one. Number 22, National Deputy Alekseyev. None. Number 23, National Deputy of Cimbaluk. Are you insisting? Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u82	Dear Chairman, reporter, distinguished colleagues! Tsymbaluk, Fatherland. I would like to continue the thesis of the national deputy, Cosemiakin, concerning the military prosecutor. And it was on this point that I had a few rights, first of all, who would not only investigate crimes where the operation of the United Nations was conducted, when some prosecutors did not make any military oaths and serve in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, taking into account the specifics. Next. How can the very institution of military prosecutors be eliminated at a time when compliance with military and other statutory requirements is more necessary than ever? We applied for the term of military prosecutors before the end of the war. Please put the vote to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u83	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u84	I just want to remind you that this year the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office will be completely deprived of the task of conducting a pretrial investigation. I would like to remind you that the State Bureau of Investigation, the third administration, is conducting a largely prejudicial investigation into war crimes today. And the surveillance functions mentioned were denied only in 2014. Therefore, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u85	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 23 of the people's MP, Cymbaluk, and the committee rejected it. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[11:12:08]] For-54 Against 43, holding 213. The decision is not taken. Edit rejected. Number 24, National Deputy Alekseiv. None. Number 26, National Deputy Mikhailuk Galina. None. 27. National Deputy Osadchuk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, this is a very revealing and important debate about the revisions not only of Osadczuk and Mikhayluk, but here six or seven deputies were actually filing similar rights, deputies from all factions, I emphasize. And we demanded one, in the current law the Attorney General has a clear list of substitutes in numbers, now one first and four deputies and the SAP prosecutor. We offered the current Attorney General any options: five, six, seven deputies, but he turned it down. That's why I insist that we support either my amendment or even the amendment of Mikhailuk's colleague from The Servant of the People. I think it has to be defined by law, the number of substitutes, and there's no problem with that. Thank you. I'm asking you to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u87	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u88	In fact, we had a discussion both between the colleagues on the committee and the Attorney General himself, and, in fact, that position, which was enshrined in the committee's rights, was agreed on both by the committee and by the Attorney General, but he still had to work with these deputies. By the number of substitutes, since the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are still being converted, it is not possible to determine the exact number of substitutes in the law at the moment, so this is the right to transfer to the Attorney General. That's why your readjustment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u89	Thank you. Thank you, Denise Anatolyovich. Do you insist on voting? The committee does not support this amendment, please identify and vote. It's number 27. [[11:14:22]] For-79 Against 38, holding back 187. The decision is not taken. Next up is number 28, People's Deputy Froll. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Number 29, Pavlük People's Deputy. Don't insist. Amendment number 30, National MP Mamka. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone, Mommy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we will not build by changing the new structural unit of law enforcement. It was suggested that the Attorney General should still submit a bill on the new unit of the law enforcement system and make appropriate decisions, but give it the opportunity to do so after the inventory, and by the number of people it needs. I would like to point out that during the 11th month of the investigation functions that the Attorney General's Office referred to, no final decision has been taken on their final transfer of criminal conduct to other law enforcement agencies. There may be a situation in which 11 months will continue the functions of conducting the investigation. I want to point out that we ask the deputies to determine a certain number, and let the heads of departments regulate the units in the direction of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Denis Anatoliyovich, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u92	According to the deputies, we have already commented, this amendment has been rejected, the committee is asking her not to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u93	Thank you. The committee does not support number 30. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:20]] For-84 Against 29, holding back 184. The decision is not taken. Next up is number 31, National MP, Nadjajchenko. Are you insisting? Turn on the van's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u94	Valentin Nastavajchenko, Julia Timoshenko's Fatherland faction. We have clearly proposed and insisted that, nevertheless, the functions of the prosecutor’s office, and now the Attorney General’s Office, which are defined by law, be clearly listed by law. Moreover, the Constitution prohibits other functions of relying on the Attorney General’s Office. That's four of them. Then we propose that, for the purpose of a truly effective activity, the European standards of work of the Attorney General's Office be clearly established by the legislator: one, one, three, the usual plus substitute for the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u95	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u96	The committee rejected the amendment, so please do not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u97	The committee does not support the 31st People's Deputies Act. Please identify and vote. [[11:17:39]] For-90 Against 33, holding - 183. The decision is not taken. National MP Zimbaluk, number 32. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u98	Excuse me? It refers to the same topic as the military prosecutor’s office. I realized that this position is not supported. But I would like to draw attention to one more thing: the system of training prosecutors' future employees. In general, the bill proposes to modify and abolish the educational system at the Academy of Public Prosecutions. The question is: How can lawyers be appointed and given such powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u99	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u100	We've actually already commented on this is about the military prosecutor's office. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u101	Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote number 32 of the people's representative of Tsimbaluka. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:57]] Z-71 Thank you. For 71, for 32, for 187. The decision is not taken. The following is number 34, National Deputy of Cosemyakina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind everyone that when we've been working on this bill for five years, it's the main one. and why he was so delayed, as they say, on the road, because our European colleagues were harassing us, telling us, proving that there should be self-government in Ukraine in your law. Self-governance, and it really scared us, because we didn't know what it was, and then when we did, and we created, we introduced this self-governance just because of the qualification commission that is working there today, the prosecutors and the procurators, who define it independently, means both jobs and discharges of prosecutors and don't allow authoritarian power to be captured by any Attorney General, with legal education, without legal education either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u103	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u104	As far as the CDC and the Board of Prosecutors are concerned, yes, these were the bodies that were created, but before their work was known, there were and are extremely many questions. That's why, for the moment, for 2 years, it's proposed to stop the articles on the activities of the training and disciplinary commission of prosecutors during these. During this time, a new approach and a new mechanism will be developed, both on prosecutorial self - government and on the choice and disciplinary responsibility of prosecutors. Thus, this amendment was rejected, as was all of the following, in connection with the CSDP. The committee does not support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, the number 34 of the People’s Deputy Kožemykina, is not supported by the committee. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[11:21:20]] For-81 Against 33, held 172. The decision is not taken. Edit 36, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u106	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u107	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u108	Thank you. I'd like to continue with the Qualifications Commission of Prosecutors. And what I'm saying is that it's written in the law that it's the only body in college that has a professional appreciation today for the professional fitness of candidates who want to work in the prosecutor's office in various positions, their virtues, including, and there are. was a security guard, as we agreed with our European colleagues, in order not to have protectionism and corrupt phone calls, telephone rights, you know, as we prosecutors sometimes do, there are children there, nephews, nieces, and they only want to work in the prosecutor's office because it's interesting. For this to not happen, a CDC was created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u110	I can only add that these fuses, according to practice, have unfortunately not worked. That's why this whole thing was rejected. The committee recommends a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote number 36 of the People’s Deputies of Kožemiakina. The committee didn't support her. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote. [[11:23:01]] For-78 Against 30, holding on to 176. The decision is not taken. Let us turn to the next draft, as well as to the national deputy of Ukraine, Kožemiakina, number 37. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u112	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, I would like to say one more thing, and then, looking at the trifle of some questions, I may take them off. But, you know, when this law was planned, and when we were recommended to bring some issues of self-government to the prosecutor's office, we were still hoping in Ukraine that the prosecutor's office would be occupied by professionals. You see, those people who, at the same time, even from investigating an investigation into a case to a trial, stood up for it and went to play. Unfortunately, in the last five years, we've had all of us come to the prosecutor's office, but not only those who could correctly appreciate what we did in 2014. Unfortunately, these errors are being corrected today by methods that were in their time before the new Procurator's Act. I think that's the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u113	Thank you. I am betting on the vote of 37 national deputies of Ukraine, Kožemiakina. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:24:31]] For-63 Against 28, holding, 180. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 39. Aleksiev’s national deputy. Please turn on Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u114	Honorary colleagues may be one of the most controversial norms of this bill, since the question of re-launching the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot be regulated by the regulations and orders of the Attorney General alone. It's a question of both specialized prosecutors, and questions and numbers of substitutes, and a number of prosecutors, and admissions to the profession, and qualifications, and assessments of good offices should be decided only in Parliament, just by laws. This is the only opportunity for public discussion on these issues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Denise Anatolyovich, is there a wish to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u116	No, it's not. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. It refers to the remainder of what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u117	Thank you. Colleagues, there was a committee -- it was time to talk about motives. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote number 39 of the People's Deputies of Alekseiv. The committee turned her down. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:25:59]] For-74. Against 33, holding on to 155. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 40. National Deputy Osadchuk. Are you insisting? Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Colleagues, this is also a very controversial issue. The Attorney General wishes to waive the registration of his legal acts at the Ministry of Justice. I understand it's a complicated procedure, big guy. The Attorney General at our meeting said that the Ministry of Justice might not work very effectively either. But this is a tool for monitoring the actions of the Attorney General. That's why we insist that the Attorney General register his legal acts in Minsk. Thank you. Let's vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Denis Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u120	Indeed, it was a very big discussion on this issue. But neither does the National Bank register its legal instruments. Therefore, in view of the reform issue currently pending, we have decided not only to reject Mr. Osadczuk but also others who have proposed leaving the procurator - general’s case. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 40 of the people's deputies of Osadchuk. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:35]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 42, Mamka People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u122	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm calling the hall. And to the position expressed by the Attorney General at the committee meeting. The issue of the lack of registration in Minsk has no alternative. And the Attorney General's position is that whoever needs it, let the orders go and sue the court. We can charge the courts with other appeals by the employees and citizens themselves, who have the right to charge one or the other with an order. But the other one. Where will a citizen or a fellow worker take orders? There are no alternatives to location on defined sites or anything else. Please support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! I'm betting on the vote number 42 of Mamka's National MP. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:52]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Next up is number 43. National Deputy Alekseyev, do you insist? Don't insist. Thank you. The following amendment, which was rejected, was number 45, the national deputy of Cosemyakin. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u124	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, I would like to say a few more words, because, well, for the purity of the experiment and the situation that will then be on the committee, the head of the committee, when he communicates with our representatives of foreign missions, they will certainly ask about this situation with the Procurator's Act. So that we wouldn't be ashamed to look them in the eye, we're having this discussion. The faction therefore decided to abstain from voting for the bill today. That's the first one. And the second. We understand that we need to make amends to the job of the prosecutor's office, we need to move forward, Dennis Anatoliovich, it's all right. But unfortunately, this is because the work and the new standards that were in their time with so much difficulty are being cleaned up, let's say, pushed into this Supreme Council and voted as law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich, is there anything to say? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u126	A brief comment. Before we actually put this law into the second reading room, we talked to all of our international partners, and most of them got, if not support, an understanding of the situation and the need to reload the prosecutor's offices. But I also support you, Andriy Anatoliyovich, in that for the next two years we must return to this issue, and this is the issue of monitoring the reform of the prosecutor's office, which will be carried out by the committee, and the issue of the new edition of the Procurator's Act. In the meantime, the committee suggests that the application be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Should I vote? Andrew Anatolyovich, do you insist on voting? Amendment No. 45 of the People’s Deputy of Cosemyakin The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:31:19]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Edit 46, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 46, Alekseiv People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, this rule was quite controversial, there was much discussion on the committee. It's about stopping prosecutors' self-governance organs, such as qualified disciplinary commissions, the D.C.A.'s office, and so on. I want to say, I want to remind you that this was one of the basic conditions when we were given a car. What I'm saying is that it's these organs of self-government that are the weight of restraint and opposition in the prosecution's office. I ask you to support this exercise and not to stop the operation of these organs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u129	Thank you. The committee didn't support her, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I place the number 47 of the Aleksiev People's Deputies on the vote. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:36]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Next up is number 48, National Deputy Alekseyev. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment No. 50, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Don't insist. Amendment number 51, Lukasevic National MP. Is he insisting? Don't insist. 52. Is Lukasevic insisting? Please turn on the Lukasevic microphone. No. 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u132	Yeah. Good afternoon, colleagues. National Deputy Lukashev Alexander. I have nothing to do with Lukasevic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u133	Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u134	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I would like to focus on the idea that the proposed direction contains. It's about the fact that the Procurator's Act does not allow graduates of higher law institutions to get a first place in the prosecutor's office. This leads to such professional deformity, the loss of knowledge and skills acquired by students during university studies. And this will allow for a direct link between the higher and the corresponding prosecutor’s office. And only then, after serving for two years as assistant, can he participate in the election as a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u136	We've been looking at this on the committee. Since she was not the subject of the first reading, we rejected her. But because we talked about that there was, in principle, this practice until the 14th year. I think we'll take another look at it once we've prepared a new version of the Procurator's Law. Thank you. So far they've been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u137	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote number 51 of Lukashev's national MP. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:35:03]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 52, National Deputy Mikhailuk. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 53, National Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 55, National Deputy Cimbaluk. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 56, National MP Mamka. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u138	Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, article 15 of the Procurator's Act prescribes all the status: both the Attorney-General, the executive, and the head of the SAP. But we believe that there is very little Prosecutor General and his promise to create specialized prosecutors. Saying and doing are different things. And I think we need to include the changes: "(including the head of the specialized prosecutor's office in case of creation)." Why? Because many of the debates have been raised and discussed by the committee on the abolition of such an institution as the military prosecutor's office and the transfer of criminal cases has not been accepted until now. I insist on the right to include, including, the heads of specialized prosecutors when they are formed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u139	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u140	Since specialized prosecutors, as defined in the standards for second reading, will be created into the rights of the Office of the Attorney General, or the district, or district attorney’s office, accordingly there is no need for clarifications that have been proposed to the national deputies of our committee. The committee suggested that they be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u141	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 56 of Mamka's national deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:37:05]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 60, National Deputy Osadchuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 61, National MP Mamka. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 64, Alekseiv People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 66, People's Deputy Pavlük. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 67, Mama. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u142	If, according to our appointment and election to positions, we have complete higher legal education, then in the Amendments to the Procurator's Law, we simply refer to higher legal education. But then what difference does it make between the prosecution and the lawyers and the judges? Please include "full legal education".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u143	Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u144	According to the Higher Education Act, there is now no higher education as complete as higher education. There are levels of education "bachelor," "master." Due to the term "full higher education", current legislation does not contain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u145	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 67 of Mamka's national deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:38:46]] For-41 Thank you. For 41. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 68, National Deputy of Cimbaluk. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment No. 72, National Deputy Kožemyakin. Don't insist. Amendment 73, Aleksiev. Don't insist. Edit 82, Cosemiakin. Don't insist. Edit 83, Cosemiakin. Edit 84, Cosemyakin. Amendment 85, Aleksiev. Amendment 87, Cymbaluk. Amendment No. 88, Kožemyakin. Edit No. 89, Aleksiev. Amendment number 91, Mikhailuk. Amendment number 93, Cymbaluk. Amendment 94, Cosemyakin. Edit number 96, Alekseyev. Amendment number 100, Alekseyev. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a statement that my amendments to number 47.85, 96, 100, 110, 113, 116, 124, 162, 169 already apply to the subjects I've been speaking on. If the previous edit is not included, there is no point in putting other edits on the confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u147	I am very grateful for this position. Edit 105, Cosmiakin. Amendment 110. Don't insist. Edit 112, Cosmiakin. Amendment 113. Don't insist. Alekseus. Regulation 115. Edit 116, Alekseiv. Edit 122, Alekseiv. Edit 124, Alekseiv. Edit 125, Aleksiev. Edit 136, Osadchuk. Edit 137, Alekseus. Edit 139, Osadchuk. Edit 144, Alekseiv. Edit 149, Alekseiv. Edit 150, Alekseiv. Edit 154, Alekseiv. 155. 156. 157, Alekseiv. 160, Alekseiv. 162, Alekseiv. National Deputy Alekseyev, please tell me all of your changes, right? 166, Cymbaluk. National MP Zimbaluk, don't you insist on the next? Osadchuk, national MP, number 170. Don't you insist? It's number 171, Frow. Don't insist. Edit 176, Osadchuk. Don't insist. 176? 176, please turn on the Osadchuku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, this is important. Many have already talked about the complete suspension of the prosecution’s self - control in the prosecutor’s office. And we understand that this law provides for the full re-certification of all prosecutors, which is 15,000 employees. We insisted that we lay down in the law a technique for carrying out this retesting with the involvement of international experts. We are told by the Attorney General that this will be done, but he has completely refused to include these rules in the body of the law. I remind you, in the Anti-Corruption Court Act, it works, in a bunch of other laws, it works. That is why we insist on voting on this amendment. Thank you. It defines, in fact, the mechanism of competition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u149	Thank you. Denis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u150	The competition mechanism will be defined in detail by the order of the Attorney General. And so, indeed, you mentioned that the Attorney General actually pointed out that international experts would necessarily be part of the human resources commission, so this was not included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u151	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote, distinguished national MPs. A little quieter in the hall, please, little quieter, colleagues! Amendment number 176, National Deputy Osadchuk, the committee does not support it. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:43:54]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The next is number 190, National Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. The next is the 193, Mikhailuk. Don't insist. 197, Mikhailuk. Ladies and gentlemen, we are determined by all the regulations that have been rejected by the committee. So I propose a vote. National deputies, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote, please! I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the first priority measures for the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office (registration No. 1032). The committee suggests that it be accepted as a second reading and as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, are we ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:45:18]] For 259. Against 28, holding, 47. Thank you. The law was passed in general. Let's move on to the next one. Show the factions, please. The People's Servant Party is 230, the Opposition Platform for Life is 2, the European Solidarity Party is 0, the Fatherland is 0, the Future is 15, the Voice is 0, the Non-Faction Party is 12. Thank you, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, we can. We turn to the following issue of the agenda: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving public procurement (new edition) (registration number 1076). 1066 hasn't been prepared yet. We'll look at it later. Let us turn to the second reading of the bill. The word for the report is given. [[B in m in s a l in]] Arthur Gerasimov, please give me a minute. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u152	Your Honor, your honor, your colleagues gave you a table just 20 minutes ago. We are now adopting a law that will depend on the lives of millions of people and the activities of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of enterprises. I have a big request: however, it is premature to distribute documents so that people's deputies can just, as a minimum, read this big document, which is now being given, because in 20 minutes such laws cannot be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u153	Thank you. The offer is very correct, but, you see, we're moving forward, we haven't always given up. So let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u154	Since 9:00, he's been on the Supreme Council website.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u155	Yes, since 9 p.m. he's been on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's only a delay since you and I haven't switched to the digital system. And all the national MPs who wanted to know were able to get to know each other. I suggest we move on to the agenda. The word is given to the deputy head of the Economic Development Committee of Podlas Roxolani Andriyevni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, good day again! In fact, today we are looking at the new edition of the Public Procurement Act, as the colleagues rightly pointed out. I'll briefly remind you what we're proposing. First of all, it's lowering the threshold to 50,000 dollars and introducing mandatory reporting in the ProZorro system for all purchases from zero bracelets. We propose the introduction of the personal responsibility of the head of the budget organization for violating procurement legislation. We offer real mechanisms to fight the prosecution trolling, automatic deviation of abnormally low prices, because at low cost, there is usually bad quality. Similarly, we struggle with overpriced purchases and resist the disqualification of participants by formal signs. Once this bill is passed, it will become much more difficult to buy from one’s own, and corruption in purchases will be less. The second reading to the Committee on Economic Development included 125 comments and proposals from the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 76 were taken into account as a result of the Committee's consideration, including in part and with clarifications of 6, 47 were rejected. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts on improving public procurement (registration No. 1076) and to adopt, on second reading and as a whole, as a law taking into account the Committee's revision 27 and amending Amendment 29 proposed by the National Deputy to Ukraine by Podlas R.A., and with further technical legal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u157	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the amendments and suggestions proposed during the committee's work. Edit No. 5, Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich. None. Amendment number 10, National Deputy Bondar. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Number 11, Bondar. Number 12, Bondar. Edit number 19, Labazuk. Is he insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 35, Labazuk. Edit 36, Labazuk. Amendment number 38, Sphinx. He insists. Turn on the Sphinx microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the idea of this amendment and the next amendment are the introduction of a world practice of transition to non-retirement production. In addition to the annual accumulation of waste, Ukraine inherited a large number of them from Soviet times. I notice that 160,000 miles [160,000 km] of Ukrainian land is covered with industrial waste — two Kievs per square mile [160,000 km]. The proposed amendment to the introduction of the greening principle in public procurement is one step towards reducing waste accumulation. I emphasize that roads and industrial waste projects have long been being built in developed countries, and Japan is even building whole artificial slag islands. Please support the amendment, as it is not only a progressive decision but also a necessity in Ukrainian realities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u159	Thank you. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u160	The committee proposes not to support this amendment. We have no objection to the ecologicality of public procurement, but the principles of public procurement are of a general nature, and these are principles that apply to all procurement items that are in the country. Therefore, it is not appropriate to impose environmental requirements. Environmental requirements can be applied to technical specifications at the customer’s request. And this is provided for in the article of Law 23, which is the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u161	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 38 of the People's Deputies of Sphenov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:52:50]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 39, Sphenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the amendment is a continuation of the idea of greening purchases. I insist on taking her into account. Yes, the amendment to article 5 requires purchasers to purchase goods, jobs, services in such a way that 20 percent of purchases are waste. Of course, those who, by their properties and indicators, provide the opportunity to be substitutes for natural resources. I note that stimulating such substitution is directly required by the Basic Principles of State Policy Act of Ukraine for a period adopted in the 1930s. At present, a number of national standards already provide for the possibility of replacing natural resources with waste where possible and safe. However, despite the decline in the cost of end-products and the positive environmental impact, this idea is sceptically perceived by both potential consumers and the state, and I confirm what the effect of this amendment is. So in order to make rational use of resources, the state has to stimulate greening of public purchases. The amendment is the embodiment of this idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u163	Thank you. The committee's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u164	The committee proposes to reject for the same reasons as before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u165	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 39 of the People's Deputies of Sphenov. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[11:54:32]] For-16 The decision is not taken. National Deputy Labazük, are you insisting on 40? Is there a Labazuk in the hall? None. Thank you. National MP Shulak, number 84. Are you insisting on your right? Don't insist. Line 101, Bondar. National MP, are you insisting on your right? No, it's not. 102, Bondar. Amendment 103, Lucenko. Lucenko? No, it's not. People's deputy of the Cubans. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u166	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! On the committee, we had 4 amendments that were critical to allow in terms of the state of war to apply as an exception the negotiation procedure of purchases for purchases of goods, jobs and services to provide for defence needs. The other one. It is absolutely practical and necessary during the period of war that is going on today. Please vote and support 103th, 105th, 108th and 123rd are connected by one block. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u167	I'm betting on the vote number 103 of the Lucenko People's Deputies. The committee turned it down. Please vote and determine. [[11:56:43]] For-74. 71-yes. The decision is not taken. The next one is 105th. Are you insisting? Give me a minute, a word for Stepan Ivanovich Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Considering that the number of amendments had been changed in the room before the second reading. Dear Mr. Head, the room has been amended. In the 102th Committee, it's in the 103rd Hall. Amendment 104 is now 105. Amendment 107 is 108. It's just that there's been a disagreement over the amendments to the committee's decision numbers. I first ask you to go back to 103 because 105th and 108th don't have the principle of unity. I'd like to ask because it's a very important matter of negotiating a procurement procedure for the Ministry of Defence and military action in the East.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u169	Roxolano Andriyovno, please read the amendment. Committee head, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, we do have a problem with what happened. We support it. Although the committee did not support it, after the inter-party discussions, I, as an initiator, propose to support the 105. The first MP is Lucenko Irina Sergiyevna. It reads as follows: "Part of the seven articles 40 of the proposed edition of the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act should be supplemented by the following paragraph: "The characteristics of the conclusion of the procurement contract as a result of the application of the procurement negotiation procedure."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u171	Rocsolana Andriyevna, I'm sorry. Come on, we've got 12 hours, I suggest we call it a break. During the break, we'll deal with the paperwork and continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, please return to our work. I'm sorry I'm late. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, back to our work. Bill 1076 is being considered in the second reading. Since we had technical problems and a mistake made by the committee secretariat, I ask you to take this into account. Head of the committee. Where is he? Please make sure that your fellow workers are more critical of their responsibilities and do not delay the work of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, back to line 103. Is there no objection? None. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, line 103.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u173	Dear Mr. Head! First of all, the atmosphere in our committee is quite professional, not politicized and controversial. So I want to protect the committee head. Amendment 103 is critical to allow for the use of the negotiating procedure as an exception to purchases for the purchase of goods, jobs and services for defence purposes. Please vote and support the amendment, the more it was almost approved by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u174	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Although the official position of the committee is to reject the bill, as an initiator and as a member of the People's Servants of the Economic Development Committee, I'm asked to support this amendment in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Yeah. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm voting for the 103rd Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. Please support her, offer to support the committee, please support her and vote. [[12:52:27]] For 262 Against 0, hold on to 16. Decision taken. Edit 103 counted. Ladies and gentlemen, the next issue is Rule 105. Turn on the Cuban microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head, the Presidium! We insist on this right, because it essentially complements regulation 102 and regulates the arrangement of procurement contracts, the conduct of negotiation procedures to ensure the need for defence in terms of state of war. Please vote and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u178	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u179	The committee's position is to reject, but I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u180	The committee's position is to support or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u181	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I'm betting on a vote of 105, it's been rejected, but it's proposed to support and vote. Please support and vote, and count number 105. [[12:53:52]] For 278 Thank you. 278 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. Decision taken. Edit No. 105 counted. Amendment number 108. Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, thank you for supporting the European Solidarity rights, which are absolutely important for the defence and security of our nation. Edit 108 to date allows the purchaser to change the essential terms of the contract as soon as it is signed, when it comes to purchasing for defence and security purposes under military conditions. Only this approach will quickly allow us to respond to all threats. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u184	Thank you. Roxanne Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u185	The same thing is the committee's decision to reject, but I'm asking you to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u186	I'm betting on the vote number 108, it was a proposal to support it. Please support and vote, Amendment 108. [[12:55:07]] For 281 Against - 1, holding - 13. Decision taken. Edit 117, Labazuk. Don't insist. Edit 123, Lucenko. Cubes, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u187	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! After all, the three amendments that I voted on, I thank you very much, and the fourth amendment that it is in the complex complements and makes changes to the purchase of goods and services in the implementation of guaranteed defence needs. And for the sake of reconciliation, I would like to support this, it's very important in the complex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u188	Thank you. Amendment 123 was rejected by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:13]] For-72 Against 20, holding up to 180. The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues! Yes, Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u189	Dear Mr. Head! Dearly beloved colleagues! I want to thank you on behalf of "European Solidarity" for supporting the three rights we have given to security and defence. And the second. Dear Mr. Head, thank you for the fact that a really professional discussion supports common sense and laws for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u190	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. The word for motivation is given to Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u191	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would also like to point out that in the second edition of the Public Procurement Act, the Ministry of Health is obliged to purchase medical supplies and medical products through international organizations. I want to reassure all the patients who are watching this session today, and say that we have really come to a consensus with the ruling majority today, and to thank both the profiling committee, and the National Health Committee, which has heard patients today, and for two years has continued this "safe pillow," which today is where Ukrainian patients receive free medicine from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u192	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Nicolanca, with the motive of a minute. Andrew Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, I'd like to say that we're in position. We had a lot of rights, but it just so happens that the co-authors aren't there right now. But the bill is generally normal, and it's good that we supported a few of the rights proposed by Mr. Kubi. But I would like to point out, unfortunately, that there are no important adjustments that Fatherland has proposed regarding the support of the Ukrainian manufacturer, especially the manufacturer of complex equipment and complex equipment, such as wagons, for example trams. This allowed us, our rights, to win a competitive battle against foreign producers and to protect the Ukrainians first. This is in line with European standards. So I think we're going to have to go back, and far away, although Fatherland supports, we're going to propose changes to this law. And I think that "Serve of the People" as a party that supports and declares the support of the Ukrainian producer should also join in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u194	Thank you. Santa Claus Leonidovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u195	Skork, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Your Honor, my fellow Members, in the context of this bill's consideration, I would like to draw attention once again to the need for a full consideration of such bills. This bill regulates a very important part of our nation's life in public procurement, transparency and adequacy. And what we've been looking at in the last week of the last moment, this is completely insane, this was seen yesterday at a committee meeting where representatives of both the National Bank and representatives of the Association of Ukrainian Workers and representatives of these patient organizations, which were just mentioned by the Ministry of Health. By the way, I'm going to say that hundreds of millions of dollars today in the receivables of the Ministry of Health will continue to be due to the policy of Mrs. Suprun, which led to the actual genocide of Ukrainian medicine. I propose not to support this bill and I propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the law is being considered in full procedure: first to second reading, so let's not mislead our colleagues. Let's go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving public procurement (new edition) (registration number 1076). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please take your seats. Please support and vote. [[13:01:14]] For 292 Against 0, holding 27. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Show the factions, please. Servant of the People - 223, Opposition Platform - Life - 1, European Solidarity - 21, Fatherhood - 14, Future - 3, Voice - 16, non-factional - 14. I repeat, the decision is made. Thank you all. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have before you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (Registration No. 1057). The draft law is discussed in a second reading. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u197	Thank you, Your Honor. We've been working on two bills that are related to each other -- 1057 and 1072 -- on the committee. I want to remind you what this is about. It's about reducing the number of reports for our business by unifying the sole social contribution and reporting on the income tax of individuals. So we go up to the Doing Business rating, so we simplify the lives of entrepreneurs. And the only problem that sent this law for second reading, why it wasn't supported in general, is the periodicity of this report: are we reporting once a month, as is the only social contribution today, or are we reporting this report once a quarter, as is the income tax of individuals. And we certainly wanted this report to be reported quarterly, which would be easier for our business. At the same time, on the other hand, we are faced with the fact that, today, the State Tax Service and the Pension Fund are not ready for this decision, because it is clear that the quarterly report, it appears every three months, and the EU counts monthly, and so there are problems: and there are specific problems, and there are problems, and there are pensions, and there are vacations. So in order not to share the next tax period, the annual tax period, we offered a compromise: to enter a quarterly report from 2021, from 1 January 2021, and this year to give to the Ministry of Finance. and the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Service, so that they can get their services in order and entrepreneurs can actually report to the Quarter. All the amendments that have been made to Bill 1057, except for one, are Bondar's amendment, all taken into account. Please support the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u198	Thank you. Let's do some repairs. Only one amendment number 5 is not counted. National MP Bondar, do you insist? Don't insist. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Belka Olga with motive? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u199	Thank you, Mr. Head. I, by the way, wanted to thank the head of our committee for nevertheless realizing the importance of following parliamentary procedures. It was noted that there was one nuance, one nuance, that delayed the consideration of the bill. But this one nuance, it's important to thousands of accountants. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, thank you for listening to our offer to make this report quarterly. [[Applause]] This is how the minority and the majority should work: it is settled and in the interests of the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u200	Thank you. I hope that this will be the same for the entire House for those bills that will be in our favor and for the interests of our state. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote on the project. The proposal to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance (Registration No. 1057). Please support and vote. [[13:07:16]] For 335 Against -0, held -4. Show me the factions, please. People's Party – 236, Opposition Platform – For Life – 18, European Solidarity – 23, Father's Party – 7, Future – 15, Voice – 16, non-fractional – 20. Thank you. Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation concerning the submission of a single report on a single contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax of natural persons (registration number 1072). The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, this bill is related to the previous one. You know we can't make one law changes to the Tax Code and other legislation. So they're divided into two parts. Please support this bill without wasting time. Thank you. Corrections are all included.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are all the adjustments taken into account? Yeah. Because everyone. It's based on Juliana Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, your honor, the head of the committee! This time, a year, is not only to reconcile the systems between the tax and pension funds, but also to ensure that the form of single reporting developed is agreed upon, discussed among the professional people involved, and it really facilitated reporting. We talked about it. I'm just asking, I'm asking the State Tax Service, as soon as it's ready, to publish it so that it's accepted by all who will use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u204	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting for the second reading proposal and for the whole draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to provide a single contribution to the general government social insurance and income tax (Registration No. 1072). Please support and vote. [[13:10:01]] For 335 Against zero, hold on to four. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 234, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 19, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherland" – 5, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice" – 15, "the Non-Factional" – 23. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the reintroduction of power. The bill is discussed in a second reading. Registration number 1066. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and the construction of the city of Kornyenek Aleksandro Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u205	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! The Committee on the Organization of Government, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization discussed at its meeting on September 18, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the reintroduction of power (registration No. 1066). For consideration by the Supreme Council in its second reading, the committee prepared a comparative table containing 243 amendments and proposals that came within the deadline of 30 entities of the legislative initiative, of which 109 were counted, 14 were included in part, 11 were taken into account in editorial terms, and 109 were rejected. At both the subcommittee and the meeting of the committee, all comments and suggestions were fully discussed with representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the presence of Mr. Cabinet Minister Dmitry Dubilet, the Ministry of Finance, the National Agency of the State Service, as well as the Henprocuratorial Office, the BSS, as well as the mandatory trade unions of government officials and other persons invited to the meetings. The Committee thus agreed to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reintroduction of power (registration number 1066). Let us note that if a bill is adopted as a result of a second reading, and in general, it is proposed to entrust the Committee on the Organization of State Authorities, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development, when preparing for signature to the Head of the Supreme Council, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, to undertake its technical and legal work. The draft bill prepared by the Committee for second reading was prepared with the comments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority. I would like to add that in preparing for the second reading, we have taken into account those fundamental moments that concerned both the national MPs and our international partners, and above all the government officials who approached us through their representatives in the union, this is primarily the social protection of government officials. We've left behind the fact that the Code of Labour has been applied to them and they now have social guarantees related to vacations, there, hospitals and so on. We also worked very hard on the public service contract, settled, and failed that 7 percent of the public service could be on a contract -- that's 14, about 15,000 people. So there's no such fear that the parallel public service is going to be created, and it's going to be settled. Well, there's a lot of editorial and technical licenses we've introduced. Therefore, the offer to support and give the public service a chance to reload. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u206	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let's move on to the proposal and the right. Edit number one, Puziychuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 2, Yvchenko. Don't insist. Number three, Stolar. Don't insist. No. 4, Klimpush-Cincadze. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! I would like to draw attention to the fact that the introduction of a contractual service, even in such a partial form as is now proposed to be approved, would lead to a violation of the general principles of government. Because the bill foresees that any position, or part of a position in the public service system, can be filled without exception by a contract worker under a contract of 1-5 years, and these contracts may continue for many, indefinite terms. And this, in fact, contradicts the general approach to the stability of the public service, the predictability of the public service, and the professionalism of the public service. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u208	Yes, Alexander Sergiyovich, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u209	The committee's position is to reject all of the charges that have to be taken out of the contract, and there are a lot of them here, and they're just being introduced by a group of deputies. We are aware that the contract is not a panacea, yes, but there is an understanding of why use it. We need to use it where we need specialists who won't work for 10, 20 years, but for some project stories. If we're talking, for example, about the digital transformation reform that we're about to introduce right now, they're not going to work for 20 years. They're going to make a project, they're going to restart -- they're going to keep going somewhere else. And we need this form to implement these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u210	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Come here, please. Colleagues! Okay. I'm betting on the vote number four of the People's MP Klimpus-Cincadze. She's not supported by the committee. Please vote and determine. [[13:16:42]] For-44 The decision is not taken. No. 6, the national MP of Lozinski. Are you insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u211	Good afternoon, colleagues! Roman Lozinski, the Voice faction. First of all, I would like to remind everyone that this bill we wanted to adopt with you in general. Thankfully, we had the opportunity to work on it. And only today do you see 243 revisions, after about 400 rights have been submitted to the committee. Once again, I ask everyone, in the example of this law, and for our next drafts, not to rush or consider them so quickly. As for the correction itself, we say here that after the competition, five people are offered to the COVA manager. Not rated, not from 1 to 5, but just 5 people. The idea of editing is not to offer 5 people, it's to offer 3 people. Because the difference between the first and the fifth is much greater than between the first and the third. And if you can't, I'm sorry for the word, "pushing" isn't always a literate and quality person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u212	Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u213	Yes, we discussed this on a subcommittee with Mr. Roman, on a committee with Mr. Roman. Discussed. Look, our position, we can still look at it from two sides. So we think the more there's to choose from, and the better choice of five than three, I think. Yeah? That's how much better this choice is going to be. As far as rating is concerned, when we talk about category A, for example, this applies to it as far as I can remember. So I don't think that the five candidates for the position of head of the COW will be very different. They'll still be around.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u214	Thank you. Are you insisting on the right, on the vote? I'm betting on the vote number six of the national MP of Lozinski. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:18:54]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Amendment number nine, national MP of Lozinski. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment number 11, National Deputy Ivchenko. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Amendment number 12, Klimpus-Cincadze. Are you insisting? Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to take this opportunity to urge all of you not to transform the reform of the public service into the adoption of the Civil Service Reform Act, but to really approach this law is more balanced and to listen to the proposals and insistences of our partners from the European Union, which have already invested a lot of money to help us with this reform. And so are OECD/SIGMA experts, who are guru in defining general public service approaches for all civilized countries. In fact, stop transforming the public service into political doers of the will of a politician who will come to power today or tomorrow. You are thus destroying the professionalism, stability and predictability of the European public service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u216	Alexander Sergiyovich, will you supplement something?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u217	Let's be fair, our international partners have agreed to these very changes to the State Service Act that we are now making. Well, it is appropriate to reject this right, as well as many others involved in the contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u218	All right, Alexander Sergiyovich? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's talk so everyone can hear it in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u219	List? We'll ask the committee if he was. The lip was a conversation or a letter. Well, there'll be a letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Amendment 13, Klimpus-Cincadze. Ivanna Orestovna, don't you insist? You insist. Amendment number 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, please tell us, we have all seen this letter sent by the representative of the European Union here in Ukraine, and OECD/SIGMA with reference to the bill that was put forward for the first reading. I would like to see a letter of confirmation that this bill is fully in line with our partners, who have been so helpful in helping us implement the reform of the service. Can you give all of us this letter right now with all your rights? And who signed this letter, who gave it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u222	Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u223	Right now we're not going to give you this letter, we're going to invite our partners, they're going to prepare it, they're going to send it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u224	Are you insisting on Ivan's vote? The next amendment is number 14, the national MP of Lozinski. Don't insist. Number 16, Scrum. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u225	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. I want, first of all, to really agree with my colleague at the Voice of Lozinski faction, about how you remember, the decision of the previous committee, when we adopted this bill in the first reading, was to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. I think it's a good lesson for us that, on the basis of and in general, such extremely important things that change lives for 200,000 civil servants and for all the Ukrainian citizens who receive services from these civil servants, they can't be taken as a basis and, in general, they can't. I would also like to thank the really subcommittee and committee for having worked very, very hard on this law, a few nights in a row and a few nights in a row, and we've improved it significantly. That's why this bill also left the Commission of the State Service Corps, it's not ruined, it's even more balanced, with my sense. Competitions remain, but the commission will now serve not one person for appointment, not even three, but five. My amendment is just saying that it's enough, I think, to give three people the best rating they've ever received and to choose from three people. There's five here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u226	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u227	Thank you. Because we really need to give the best for the assignment, not all that we need to give, let's say, three people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u228	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, there will be a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u229	I've already commented on 3, 5. Our position is 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u230	Then let's move on. Do you insist on voting? Yes, are you insisting? Okay. I'm betting on the vote number 16 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. The amendment was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:24:14]] For-75 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 17, the national MP of Lozinski. Are you insisting? Thank you. 18, Lozinski. 20, Yvchenko. 21, Klimpush-Cincadze. 23, Klimpush-Cincadze. Are you insisting? Amendment number 23. Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u231	Colleagues, I would just like to predict that you and I are going to have to go back to the general consideration of this bill as a whole just when we realize that it really strengthens the public service under the political will and the political "hotels" of those or other politicians who come into power. And I urge you to take a balanced approach to this and not take this decision now, but to wait for, perhaps, really those comments from our partners, which are very likely, if they agreed to it, they would be willing to continue to support this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u232	Thank you. The word is given by Cornienne Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u233	We call on colleagues in the hall not to politicize the issue of specific practical organizational changes to the State Service Act, which imposes them. create such conditions that government officials will work harder. Because it's about KPI, it's about contracts, it's about certain things that are being used all over the world in business, in our country, and in public service, in public administrations all over the world, too. So let's not politicize, in principle, a practical organizational issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u234	Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Amendment number 25, national deputy of Lozinski. Amendment number 26, Stolar. Amendment number 27, Password. Edit 30, Klimpush-Cincadze. Number 34, Magera.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u235	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u236	Is he insisting? Please turn on the Mageri People's Deputy microphone. Rule 34.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u237	Your Honor, Your Honor, if you'll excuse me, please! The project proposes not to extend to public officials the rights and obligations that are secured by labour law for all workers who put them in an unequal position. They just said they kept it, so to speak. But to deprive the civil servant of the right to complain about the management's decisions on dismissal, my dear friends, well, what is it? I'm asking and insisting on supporting the amendment, because it's, well, it's too much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u238	Alexander Sergiyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u239	Well, in keeping with the guarantees of the Labour Code, as I said, we've kept this guarantee for the rest of us -- well, you have the essence of the amendment -- to repeal this law as a whole. We're rejecting this amendment by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u240	Do you insist on voting? Yeah. I'm betting on the vote number 34 of the Magari People's Deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:28:10]] For-29 Against 36, holding 176. The decision is not taken. The next one is 54, Lozinski. Are you going to insist on some kind of a readjustment? Which one? Turn on the Lozinski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u241	Next line is 59 of mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u242	Amendment number 59, national MP of Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u243	Yes, actually this is rejected here, because it was taken into account in another edition, then I want to support the committee and also thank the committee for the work because so much has been done, and in particular, we don't always agree with the concept of this bill, but that it will be better, including because they left the commission and it will work not on public grounds, but it will have paid work, we hope that this commission will work, indeed, better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u244	Thank you. You don't insist, I understand, on the vote. Next line is 60, Scrum. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u245	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. This amendment also applies to the composition of the commission. In fact, we've agreed on a professional and professional composition, not politicized, commission, and you can see it in column two. Now there will be seven. Some representatives are replaced, for example, by a staff management expert, which I think is correct. It also adds a representative from educational institutions that prepare public administration and train professionals and students from public administration, and it is also the right thing to do. We also support the idea that the very people who choose government officials for the future should pass the same tests as those candidates for the public service. It's the right story. So I hope that the commission will be less politicized and the commission will work more professionally. We support these adjustments. But at the same time, of course, we have concerns about the fact that the commission will hand over five persons for appointment and very easily its own person, let us say so directly, to push into these five persons, so here we will insist on a reduction in the number of candidates proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u246	Thank you. Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u247	Our position is to optimize this commission because. There, for example, was the head of NAZK in office. Of course it's on a committee like this. Such a loaded commission is unlikely to receive the head of NAMK, and so forth. There were four representatives from the public, well, we always have a question. The public is such a very broad concept of the quality of the staff. So we're proposing to optimize, leave seven people, and you can see in the table the principle of shaping this. Article 14.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u248	Thank you. You insist on the right, on the vote, right? I'm betting on the vote number 60 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. The amendment was not supported by the committee, so please vote and identify yourself. [[13:31:32]] For-59 Against 17, holding, 160. The decision is not taken. The next one is number 61, and so is Scrum. Don't insist. 62 – Lozinski. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, this remedy applies practically to what Mrs. Alona has just said. As of today, the commission is composed of 7 people as proposed. We discussed an alternative proposal on the committee: extending the commission to 12 people and with the participation of representatives of the trade unions, representatives of the educational environment, representatives of the NAM, not of the position, obviously, but of the representative, and proposing that the quorum should not be half, but two thirds, so that not four people would make a decision, but at least eight. The amendment was not supported, unfortunately, but we will see how this commission will work. We need to analyze her appearance, her work and then adopt laws, make changes to this law if this commission is to work ineffectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u250	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. 63 revisions. Don't insist. 65th, Lozinski. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u251	Edit 65, 67 and 71 and 73 refer to the same or similar, consonant questions, and I ask you not to take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u252	65, 71 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u253	73.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u254	Thank you. 67, Lozinski. No, I'm not. The '70s, Scrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u255	Thank you. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, when we're even asking ourselves, what is reform of government and public service, what is it about? It's really about making our public service, the people who do any reforms that give us administrative services that generally introduce politics in the country, have to be independent, non-politicized, professional, work professionally, transparently, independent of who comes to change in the country: presidents, prime ministers, should remain this professional public service. And access to the public service should be open, and again for new experienced, professional people who want to enter the public service. So that's exactly what this amendment is about. About what you're like as a young person, or as an experienced person, or as a business person you can look at the only career.gov.ua portal those vacancies that are in the public service; to submit your documents in a simplified electronic version, to come to the commission from the higher corps, to make an interview there -- and they'll really pick you if you're the best expert in this field. Whether you know him or not, whether you know him or not, no matter who your friends are, no matter who the Prime Minister is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u256	Let me finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u257	You have to get a chance to work in the public service, get a career there. And give, indeed, to the state your profession and the best of your professional qualities. It's about access.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u258	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u259	Well, we turned it down. So I don't understand how access is related to three of them instead of five? On the contrary, the more access, the more access, the more it seems.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u260	Alana Ivanovna, do you insist on voting? Okay. I'm betting on the vote number 70 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. The committee rejected the amendment. Please identify and vote. [[13:35:38]] Z-62 The decision is not taken. 81 revisions, Lozinski. Don't insist. Thank you. 82nd, Frow. Don't insist. 83rd, Rubble. Don't insist. 85th, Bilozer. Don't insist. 90th, Bilozer. 102nd Klimpush-Cincadze. 104th, Bilozer. 109th, Lozinski. 116th, Frolov. 119th, Lozinski. 122nd, Zmerenecki. 130th, Lozinski. 131st, Bilozer. 142nd Klimpush-Cincadze. 144th, Lubin. A lube? None. Don't insist. 146th, Stolar. 151st, Zmerenecki. 153rd, Lozinski. 156th, Scrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u261	Colleagues, this amendment refers to a test and a reason for dismissal, such as the establishment of a public official’s appropriateness to the position taken. In fact, this reason for the release on first reading was listed as one of the possibilities of releasing a civil servant, but it was not prescribed what is "to establish the appropriateness of his public office." That was the reason for our release, but we left her in the test. In fact, colleagues, there is such a classy show called Yes Minister and Yes, Prime Minister about what a public service is and what it is when government officials are independent of change of power, from change of policy and from change of course work professionally, professionally, unpolitically and not used in their political games by politicians. That is what we need to desire. If every authority that comes into the country wants to change all people in positions, all government officials and professionals, and independents, and those who work well, and those who work poorly, we will not build such a public service. That's why I have concerns here. Well, we'll keep an eye on how the law will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u262	Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u263	Yes, we specifically rejected this amendment. If in general, we fully agree that we have to go from public service politics, but let's be honest, we have 202,000 civil servants, of them 95 percent or 99 are lower categories, that's B, and that's part B. And here's category "A," in my personal opinion, I don't want to say that this is the idea of a faction or a party, but right now in Ukraine, at the current historical moment, it's a political story, because when we talk about corruption, responsibility is then a political, and political power that assigned them. So let's go to the top officials, after all, to discuss what it is, unfortunately, is still in Ukraine with a political tone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u264	Thank you. I'll bet you 156 people's deputies to vote Skrum. The committee didn't support her. Please identify yourself and vote. [[13:39:47]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Edit 169, Klimpush-Cincadze. Don't insist. Is the carpenter in the hall? None. Lozinski, 171 correct. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, 171 regulations apply to the essential conditions of changing the public service. What are we talking about? The point is that if during the course of the public service the name changes or conditions of work change, wages, structure, or other internal issues in the government body where the official works, this is a reason for early warning of such changes, and for a person to decide whether or not he will remain in the public service or whether he will seek another job. In the proposed edition, it is suggested that the grounds that are essential conditions of service be excluded, that there is still some risk that the civil servant will not be protected or warned, and that it will be easier to release him. I insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u266	Alexander Sergiyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u267	The committee's proposal is to reject. Well, we have some government authorities when they're renamed, they usually have functions that are added or changed. So it's not just a name. So here to say that it's not a substantial condition, well, it's actually a substantial condition. So our position is to reject your amendment and accept it in our editor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u268	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting 171 national MPs to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:41:46]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Edit 173, Lubinets national deputy. Don't insist. 174, National Deputy Zmerenecki. Don't insist. 185, Lozinski People's Deputy. Is he insisting? Ladies and gentlemen, please step aside because you can't see Lozinski. You're like this, not comfortable enough. Please turn on the Lozinski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u269	Dear colleagues, directly, you know, one of the fundamental principles that we should put into the public service is to create a system of motivation and working conditions so that people don't just want to be in the public service but want to stay at work. Amendment 185 refers to material security. Because in the original edition there was an offer to cancel the ranking allowance, pay for additional stress in the face of different circumstances. After comments were made on the committee, fortunately, the ranking payments were left behind, other payments are and remain in certain KZO. So I support the committee's decision here, and I don't insist on voting. And once again, I stress that in this text of the bill, and in the following, when we talk about the public service, we have to think first of all about creating motivation and encouraging people to work in the public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u270	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u271	Yes, I want to say that, as a result of the long talks with the Ministry of Finance and with the unions, we have been able to preserve the most important motivation: it's a social guarantee for the salaries of civil servants, the ones most in the country -- the employees of the district, city, district and so on. Personally, as a liberal in the shower, it was hard for me to vote on the committee yesterday, and I said it and I'll say it under the transcript here. But the state approach now, today, must be something that they need to guarantee. Because there aren't so many jobs in the center except for the government service. So as for other ways, motivations and so on, they went to KZOT, really, with a return to the norm that KZOT's action is spreading on them. That's why we agree here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u272	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment 190, National Deputy Kravchuk. Don't insist. 193th National Deputy of Lozinski. 195th, Schrum. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u273	Thank you, colleagues! Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. It's actually really cool that we're looking at this in full procedure today, and we're able to comment on the amendments. I think this is an important discussion. The reform of the public service, indeed, is a reform without which there will be no other positive change in the country quickly because there will be no one to make it. This amendment that we are too poor for a country today to pay professional, professional government officials. It's about reforming the public service. We have to clean up the old Soviet bureaucratic methods. We have to undo the duplication of functions. But those who want to work, stay and work professionally should receive a decent salary. And here I want to encourage the government to take changes to the government's strategy. Unfortunately, it's long overdue, it's not changing and it's not being implemented, and it's just going to be the first step, it's going to do a review of everything that we have in the country and in the government. To reform the old functions that we don't need, to eliminate the old organs, the ministries, the agencies, and we have a huge amount of distributed equipment, and only then to cut people down, and to pay those who are left behind a decent salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u274	Alexandre Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u275	Yes, we have considered this issue more complexly, in the context of what is the political will so - called subsistence minimum to make it real and to untie everything that is attached to it. And as we have now established in the law, it will be easier for us to do so. This is the first time. Secondly, let's be honest, the standard of linking the salaries of civil servants to the subsistence minimum was adopted back in 2015, it seems, but it was postponed annually in the budget. Why do we accept standards that have expired? We decided by the committee to leave our attachment to the minimum of living, but that was a decision, a compromise. I agree that there are no such resources in the State so far, but we will want to do so, especially through the professionalization of the public service. If there are more professionals and there are fewer people in general, there will be more money to pay them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u276	Alan Ivanovna, do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. Edit 202, Password. Edit 204, Password. Edit 209, Password. Edit 211, Klimpush-Cincadze. 214. 220. Please turn on the Klimpush-Cincadze microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u277	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I appeal to you to support this amendment. In fact, this amendment suggests that we should make it impossible for a woman to be a government official who is pregnant or a government official who is single who cares for a child under the age of 14 or who has a child with disabilities, on these grounds we find it unacceptable to release civil servants. I am convinced that all of you want to protect such civil servants from their unlawful release on the basis of these very grounds. I'd like you to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u278	Thank you. Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u279	I want to remind you that we've returned the rule that government officials are protected by KZOT, and at KZOT, we seem to have even more protection than that, specifically, so the committee decided to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u281	Well, we're back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u282	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 220 of the People's MP Klimpush-Cincadze, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:48:56]] For-55 The decision is not taken. Order 221, national MP of Lozinski, do you insist? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u283	Dear Mr. Head, among the next 30 rights are about 7 of my own. I now have a request to give three minutes of general opinion on the bill and not take the floor for other amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u284	Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, of course, the Voice faction will support and support all technological and progressive positions. Names like Honcharuk, Nepheod, Verlanov, Milonov and many others are people who can really be called technocrats. These are the people who need to be credited with trust so that they can really make a number of changes that are needed. In particular, this bill is also called upon to resolve in some way the hands of technocrats and not to create conditions for sabotage and other problems that have always been caused by unkind, unkind civil servants. But in the Voice faction, there's a concept like "Janukovich factor." What's "Janukovich factor"? When we decide whether to vote in favour or not, we are discussing, and how we would make a similar decision, if President Yanukovic was now, or if we knew that Mr. Azarov would be Prime Minister. And we're very worried, you know, we would even support this bill if it wasn't one of the puzzles of other initiatives and bills. If the National Guard hadn't wanted to "cuff" to the President, if the MPs hadn't taken the right of legislative initiatives and narrowed down their rights, if the Prosecutor's Office hadn't wanted to form a manual regime, then perhaps the Voice faction would have supported the bill. Because we actually have a lot of work to do with the public service. But unfortunately, when we see all the parts of this sequential process, we see in this bill the risk that these powers, these simplifications can create a manual mode when certain people are prescribed certain norms. And unfortunately, we can't be sure that these things work in a positive way. That's why the Voice faction will continue to constructively support all the proposals that will be made to solve technocrats' hands, but we will definitely fail to support and support those issues that will create certain risks. So we hope that the next successive steps of the majority will not be directed towards some monopolization of power in different branches, and then we will be able to support, confidently and confidently, such bills as 1066. The Voice faction will now hold on to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u286	Thank you. Amendment No. 223 of the People's Chamber of Skrum. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u287	Thank you. I'll also ask for two minutes, if possible, to fix 223 and 224.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u288	Give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u289	Thank you very much. Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, we have a huge problem with government today. I think it's felt by every person who calls for administrative services and has relations with government officials, government authorities, or the local government. We have 19 ministries today, 24 services, 24 agencies, 4 inspections, 7 COVS with special status. 240 thousand government officials all over the country, 26 billion just spend on their salaries, not on professional and efficient processes. Clearly, we need to shorten the functions of the bureaucratic apparatus, not the civil servants themselves, but the Soviets, the cumbersome functions and processes that we no longer need in the modern innovation world. A bunch of government bodies and inspections that I've listed are duplicating their own functions. No one is responsible for specific things, but they switch functions over to each other all the time and without end in a circle. So I insist for five years that we start the public service, that we reform it from a functional examination, from a large audit of what we have and what functions the state has to perform, and what functions the state no longer performs, and which have never been carried out, but remain such a corrupt burden on government officials (they understand that they do not do so) and on Ukrainian citizens with budget money. So it's from the government strategy, from the downsizing of functions, that we have to start this reform with a functional examination. Unfortunately, the same amendment tells us that we are starting this reform and we are lending credit to Mr. Honcharuk, and Mr. Dubilet, and other technocrat ministers for the release of political state officials. The last person to release government officials for political reasons was, unfortunately, Mr. Janukovic. And I'm also afraid that we're going back to this idea, even though I understand how to take control of the public service today. So on the committee, we made a compromise, and we said there would be four months in the new government to release only category "A" of government officials. I hope that other categories will willingly and politically be freed never in our country; they should be grateful for their professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u290	Thank you. I take it you don't insist on voting? Well, 30 seconds, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u291	Let's make it clear who's watching the broadcast. Dear Ukrainian citizens, what's category "A"? These are secretaries of state, fewer questions to them, and these are the heads of central executive bodies. These are the heads of the hold, the meat, the bread, the gas, the meat, and so on, yes. I mean, I think people have a lot of questions about them, mostly political ones. And I hope that those to whom there is a question in the law enforcement system will be resolved as well. So let's give category "A," "B," that's right, it's not clear who it's specifically about. These are the leaders of the central executive authorities, to whom people have questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u292	Thank you. The next issue is 229 Klimpush-Cincadze. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u293	Colleagues, in support of my colleagues from Fatherland and Voice, would like to draw attention to the fact that you and I are building a state, we are not building a function for the individual authority that came at the moment. As a nation, it is important to have the opportunity to provide this very European public service. Why don't you approve in "Transitional Positions," pass the decision that it's a law of one-off action, one that allows you to reload power, but, at the same time, it doesn't mean that we're going to have destroyed stability, predictability and professionalism of the public service all the time?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-19-m0.u294	Thank you. The amendment was rejected by the committee. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. Amendment No. 230. Klimpush-Cincadze. Don't insist. Amendment number 231. Klimpush-Cincadze. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've passed and we've exhausted the entire list of rights and additions that have not been counted by the committee, so we're going to vote. Please prepare the national deputies of Ukraine. Get ready, please. Dear colleagues, I'm going to continue our meeting for 15 minutes, but I think we're going to finish this sooner. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't have to vote for 15 minutes, no, I know. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt the second reading and the whole draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reintroduction of power (1066). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:58:10]] For 228 Against 24, hold on to 50. Decision taken. [[Applause]] The law is passed in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, dear fellows. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 224, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 4. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a draft law amending the Ukrainian Customs Code for the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights when moving goods across the customs border of Ukraine (registration No. 1230). It is proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session. Please support and vote. [[13:59:09]] For 233 Against two, hold on to 58. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I declare closed this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
