ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u1	Good morning! I just walked into the hall, didn't realize what happened. I think maybe I'm an hour late, maybe everyone in the room. I remind everyone that today's registration takes place by pressing the green pros button. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. I welcome all my colleagues once again. Thank you for such a full room. Perhaps an hour of questions to the government plays an important role. Good afternoon, reverend media. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, shall we begin? 10:02. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[10:02:20]] There are 307 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Show me the factions, please. 187 – "Serve of the people". [[B in m in s a l in]] 187 – "Serve of the People", "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 33, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherland" – 16, "For the Future" – 17, "The Voice". Yes, we can, we can. Again? Yeah. Oh, I like it. Yeah. Yeah. Look. Test version. Colleagues say the button didn't work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah. Yeah. So, dear colleagues, colleagues say that the button didn't work. If you don't mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look. Look. Look. The law says it's all the same if you press it. Yeah, really, we were thinking heads, it's know-how in the Supreme Council, thanks, yeah. So, dear colleagues, that's fine. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome our colleagues on their birthday. Today we have three names: Olena Copanczuk, Oles Dougi, and Maksim Jephimov. My colleagues, welcome to your birthday! Health, family harmony, comfort, and success in life! But a timely registration at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's move on to it. Come to work on time, yeah. Dear colleagues, let's move on to our work. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, "the hour of questions to the Government" is held on Friday at 10 a.m. Dear colleagues, before we go to "the hour of questions to the government." Colleagues, we have a young father, Roman Gritchcock, and he's got a baby. Hello! And may the child be healthy, boy, and happy. Everything else is secondary. I welcome you again with my birthday. Dear colleagues, I'm informing colleagues from the European Solidarity Department that according to a law that they may not have finished reading, according to article 26, if you vote today, it will be considered a registration. Thank you. Let's move on to work. In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, “the hour of questions to the Government ” is held on Friday, at 10 a.m. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk (Olexija Valeriyovich, good afternoon!) and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Conciliation Council defined the theme "hours of questions to the government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the state of local self-government reform and the decentralization of power in Ukraine. According to article 229 of the Rules, the following is proposed: 30 minutes to the Minister of Community and Territory Development to answer written and oral questions from MPs and groups to 30 minutes; 30 minutes to questions from MPs; 30 minutes to questions, 1 minute to answer each oral question and 2 minutes to answer it. If you don't mind, we're going to consider questions to the government from the MP factions and groups. The rostrum invites the minister of community development and territory of Ukraine, Alona Valériyovna Babak. Alono Valeriyovno, I ask you to answer, to answer one written or oral question from each faction and group, to read it and to call it what faction this question came from. Dear colleagues, please be a little quieter in the hall. Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky! Colleagues! Maxim Arkadyovich! Bujanski, good afternoon! Sit down, listen to the minister, but as a major, it'll be important for you to talk about community development. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In connection with the meeting of the Conciliation Council of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on November 1, 19th, questions were raised to the government from the MP factions: "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland", "European Solidarity", "The Voice", "For the Future", "The Opposition Platform for Life" – about decentralization, regional development, debt from tariff differences, the passage of the inflamed season. From the MP's faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" came the following few questions. The reform of local self - government and the territorial organization of government is essential. However, there should be a person at the centre of reforms and their needs, regardless of where they live, access to essential quality services should be the same. Comfortable living conditions should be the same in the village and in the city. Next question. The state owed local budgets compensation for the difference in tariffs, resulting in the debt of the local authority itself to TKE companies in the 16th and 19th years being 19 billion dollars, and the 20th year budget is missing. Next. The government plans to change the principle of creating a regional development fund instead of existing guaranteed at least 1 per cent of the general budget's income is proposed to allocate at least 1 per cent of the general budget's income. This increases the risk of underfunding regional development projects. I, my dear colleagues, will now read the factions' questions and then, with your permission, in general on all of these questions, they just kind of repeat themselves. So I'm just going to read it from factions so everyone can hear the factions that were asked questions, and I'm going to answer them in the same format. The following questions have come from the MP's faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland". How is it proposed at the legislative level to ensure the irreversibility of the process of decentralization of power in part of the formation of effective local self-government and territorial authority to create and support a full living environment for citizens, the provision of accessible public services, the establishment of direct government institutions, the reconciliation of the interests of the State and the territorial communities? The government has consistently stressed the principle of voluntary unification in order to eventually achieve a capable community, which is suggested to prescribe the criteria of volunteerism, since people in some places complain of forced union? A few questions have also come from the MP's political party "European Solidarity" -- I call them separate. Why is the financing of municipal projects from the State Regional Development Fund stopped; what steps are being taken by the government to ensure that the public can properly absorb the funds; does the government and the Ministry support the proposal to change the administrative and territorial system, which will result in the key person through whom local finances are distributed to the Prefect State; does this suit the interests of the community? The following questions have been raised by the political party's deputy faction, Voice. In view of the reform of local self-government and the territorial organization of the authorities of the implementation of medium-term budgetary planning, it is now extremely important to develop effective accounting methods to finance the relevant budgetary sectors and programmes. The best way to do this is to create appropriate standardized social planning approaches. Is the government planning to develop such approaches for relevant sectors and consumer groups? What are the main issues of duplication, the imposition of OTG functions and the local authorities today? What are the foreseeable solutions? More than 10 or 15 questions have also come from the "For the Future" MP. I'll read it separately. How does the government plan to employ thousands of government officials after the global reduction of ODA, RDA and others? On December 19th, the CEC, together with the government, appointed elections to the local united territorial communities. The following year, the local elections are scheduled. Are you planning to re-expenditure the election in these communities? If not, why are these elections now? What is the fate of the communities that will take part in this December’s elections? And according to the government's methodology, they'll be determined by failure. What is the basis for the figure of 100 districts in Ukraine? Dear colleagues, you understand that factions are given, well, there are 10, and 20, and 16 questions. I read them separately so that I could understand the context of these questions. And now I'm going to give the government the answers to these blocks of questions. A block of decentralization for the formation of capable territorial communities. You can look at slides as well, which will be accompanied by individual answers. The main objective of the reform of local self - government is to form capable territorial communities capable of providing their inhabitants with equal, quality and affordable public services. On November 1, 2019, 922 united communities were formed. You can see them on the slide in blue. A review of the CLTC contains a presentation on the appointment of the first elections in 17 OTG. In the final stages of making decisions about the creation of another 60 united communities. They're also on the slide marked with yellow. Today, the area of OTG is 233.5 thousand square miles [233.5 thousand km] or 41.8 percent of the total area of Ukraine. There are 10.4 million inhabitants or 29.5 percent of the total population of Ukraine. More than 10,000 projects have been implemented in OTG territory, which has not been done for decades. This is the restoration of street lighting, the renovation of educational facilities, cultural buildings, medical facilities, and others, the construction of a security center, the provision of administrative services, and medical laboratories. With regard to the closure of education and medical facilities and the provision of quality services to Ukrainian citizens regardless of their place of residence. For children living in populated areas where general and secondary education facilities have been eliminated or reorganized, conditions are created for quality education. The government does not provide for the closure of medical facilities or for the reduction of medical personnel. It is up to the communities to decide which of the medical facilities to strengthen and which to reprove. The state only lays down technical requirements for hospital arrivals and their minimum workload. The government has determined that all settlements within the service areas should be compactly located and located not more than 7 miles [7 km] away from the primary health care facility. So the government doesn't do anything about cutting down medical institutions or anything else, but it does set a standard that needs to be met at the local level. On the basis of promising plans for the formation of capable communities. The principle of volunteering is a fundamental principle of uniting the territorial communities. Ukraine's Law on voluntary unification of territorial communities provides for the approval of forward-looking plans for the formation of community areas according to the methodology approved by the government. It's the O.G. that's made up of a forward-looking plan that can be recognized as capable of moving into a direct relationship with the government budget. On November 1, 2019, the government approved promising plans for the formation of 23 community areas. You can also see this information on the slide. A forward-looking plan should cover the entire area. Today, however, some 87.6 percent of Ukraine’s territory is included in the outlook. You see, there are white spots left on the map, which indicates that the whole area is not covered by promising plans. Only 8 areas were covered by the prospect of 100 percent of the territory: Volinska, Dnipropetrovska, Donetsk, Zaporziska, Lugansk, Ravenska, Kharkivska, and Hmelnicka. The formulation of forward-looking plans involves the development of such plans by governments, the approval of appropriate district councils, and the approval of the government. The government is proposing to simplify the procedure for the formulation and approval of forward-looking plans to strengthen the role of the basic level of the territorial communities in this process, excluding the need for approval by the district councils. In the Supreme Council, there is bill 2189 on simplifying the procedures for the approval of forward-looking plans, forming the territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the areas. And only after the adoption of this law will the government be able to make changes to the method of shaping capable territorial communities. In line with the methodological recommendations for assessing the capacity of the regional communities developed by the Ministry, these criteria for the ability of communities are defined. The number of permanent residents living in the community; the area should be at a certain level; the budget tax index must be provided; the share of local taxes and revenue collection in the general budget should also be taken into account; and the compactness of the territory of the local community should be taken into account. In line with these criteria, forward-looking plans will be developed to cover 100 percent of the area. Only those communities that meet the Constitution, Ukrainian laws, methods, and necessarily promising plans will be recognized by the government. As to the first local elections in the OTG in December 2019. The holding of the first local elections and the formation of local self - government bodies in the unified territorial communities will provide prerequisites for a direct relationship between the local budgets of the respective communities and the state budget. Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Voluntary Uniting of Communities provides that the Cabinet of Ministers may recognize a unified community capable of forming it in accordance with the law. The law does not provide for the possibility of the government of the community being unable to recognize. So what I'm asking is that the government doesn't recognize the community as incompetent. Thus, if the communities that will take part in the December elections are provided with a forward-looking plan, they will be able to move on to a direct relationship with the state budget. As to the size of the areas. After the reform of local self-government and the creation of capable communities, there will be a reformation of the district level: the entrenching of areas, the optimization of district government administrations and the further creation of prefectures. To date, there are 22 areas in Ukraine that have been completely aligned with the boundaries of the united territorial communities. A functional review of the activities of the relevant district councils and district administrations in the areas indicated that all the powers of both the district council and the district administration were carried out by a council, only by the executive committee of the United Terror. The findings suggest that it is possible not to create representative bodies at the sub-regional level. In this context, the government is working on legislation on local self - government bodies without appropriate district councils. In line with the methodological recommendations, the district working groups modeled the administrative and territorial structure of the areas, resulting in the figure of a hundred areas. So far, however, this figure is only an expert figure. The final modeling of the sub-regional level should take place after a hundred percent completion of the formation of capable communities. As for the role of prefects. The government is developing changes in the administration, leading to local self-government, the territorial communities, and the prefect’s representative to oversee the legality of the decisions taken by the local authorities and the local authorities of the TECW. The Prefect will not participate in the distribution of local finances, since all communities will have direct relations with the state budget. The district councils will also have their own executive bodies that will be empowered, including in the area of budget and finance. With regard to the employment of government officials after the reduction of ODA and RDA. The size and structure of local government administrations depend on the powers and functions of the respective authorities. Decentralization of power provides for the transfer of authority to local self - government by the principle of subsidiarity. Optimizing the work of the local government administrations is aimed at eliminating duplication of their powers with the authority of the rural, rural city councils of the united territorial communities. The optimised workers of the RDA can be employed by competitive selection to the executive bodies of the community and prefectures in the future. When it comes to developing appropriate standardized approaches to social planning. The Ukrainian Budget Code provides that by 1 March 20th, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will have approved state social standards and standards in accordance with 94 articles of this Code in a descriptive and cost-effective manner for each of the state's delegates to local self-government in the calculation of the average administrative and territorial unit. Therefore, the government is working on setting minimum standards and standards for appropriate networks, modelling is providing public services networks according to minimum standards and standards. You all know, we've got major MPs involved in this work of modeling networks of optimal public services and services and defining these standards. Regional development. The implementation of State regional policy envisions the creation of an effective system of support for troubled areas; the introduction of open competition between regions and public financial resources for regional development projects; the strengthening of the relationship between strategic and budgetary planning; and the provision of targeted funding for national and regional development strategies under the DFRD. The definition of a general planning scheme for Ukraine is an integral part of the State Regional Development Strategy. In 2019 the amount of State support for regional and local development increased by 41.5 times compared to the start of the 14th year reform, from 0.5 billion dollars to 20.75 million. One billion dollars. In particular, through the State Regional Development Fund -- 7.7 billion dollars, a social grant -- 4.7 billion dollars, a grant for OTG infrastructure -- 2.1 billion dollars, a cost of building sports objects -- 0.75 billion dollars, a subsidy for developing medicine in rural areas -- 5 billion dollars. As regards the change in the DFRD formation principle. The position on the definition of the DFRD in the amount of not more than 1 per cent of the revenue of the State Budget General Fund we all realize will put at risk not only the implementation of new projects aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the regions, their investment attractiveness, but also the completion of projects launched in previous years and the inefficient use of funds in previous periods. The government has therefore submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has registered a draft bill (No. 2202) to amend article 24 pr. The budget code on improving the efficiency of the use of the State Regional Development Fund funds, which provides for a rule that the DFRD is set at least 1 per cent of the projected revenue of the State budget of Ukraine for the corresponding budget period. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you support this position, so we ask and support the bill that is now in the Supreme Council and submitted by the government. With regard to halting the financing of municipal projects with DFRD. The financing of municipal projects from the State Regional Development Fund was restored at the end of September. Once again, funding for the DFR is restored in September-month. The government has fully analyzed the state of implementation of the relevant projects and the potential risks of not using them. As a result of the joint work of MINREGION, the district and Kiev City Administrations, government regulation No. 935, which reduced the allocated amount of 223 million dollars, excluded 154 projects on which no work had been started, and reduced funding for nine projects where the risk of non-exploitation had been reduced by the end of the year. Also excluded is one project of the Zaporozhye Region, as it will be funded by another budget program, and the funds released are aimed at increasing funding for the previously approved project of the Zaporozhye Region. At 30.10.19, funds were funded, provided for by a monthly January - January schedule. Tariffs. Regarding differences in tariffs and corporate debt. The laws of Ukraine "On State regulation in the field of utilities" and "On prices and pricing" do not allow the imposition of tariffs on utility services lower than the size of economically based costs on their production. There is no legal basis for compensation from the State Debt Budget for differences in tariffs created after 01.01.2016. However, the government considers that compensation for the difference in tariffs for many years would not provide for business losses. Yes, as of 1/10.19 C.E., the debt of enterprises is the equivalent of natural gas consumed, amounting to 35.8 billion dollars. And the population debt for heat is 14.8 billion dollars. We see a huge gap in what they can get, from the customers of the enterprise, and how much they owe to gas suppliers. So we think that individual decisions are insufficient and do not address the issue systematically. The government is currently working on a comprehensive solution to old debt repayments, debt restructuring through both tariff and legislative arrangements to ensure in 2021. before Since the 21st year, ensure the stable work of industry and transfer tariff regulation authority to the local level. It's about the heating period. Decisions on the start of the heating season are made by local authorities if the average ambient air temperature is 8 degrees Fahrenheit [8 ° C] and below for 3 days. Therefore, responsibility for it. local self - government authorities are responsible for the timely start and constant passage of the heating period. In order to ensure that the heating season starts at the right time, the government has adopted an Order, which has been given the necessary instructions to take the necessary steps for the start of the heating period. I won't give in detail in the regions. All the information on the Minregonbud website. But the connection is happening accordingly. objects are made in accordance with local self - government decisions. As for the problems of the beginning of the heating period in the city of New Division. The heat supply of the city of New Division is made by TEC, which is located in the ARMA administration. The representative of the ARMA informed the Minregion about the selection of the manager of TEC's arrested assets in the New Division of the Lviv Region of the PP "Garant Energo M" and assured the PP "Garant M" to make a timely start and a continuous passage of the heating season, payment of the employee's salary debt. Garant Energo M's payroll is about 11 million dollars. Debt for natural gas consumed before NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is 307.5 million dollars. The debt owed to the Energy Company is about 93 million dollars. There have not yet been isolated breakthroughs in the heat supply systems and the system has not been completely filled with water. But on October 1, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Honcharuk, commissioned the ARMA to pay off the debt owed to the private company Garant Energo M, which operates the thermal power plants in the city of Nova Split, the city of Novoyavorysk Lviv. 18.10 In the Lviv District State Administration meeting of the Regional Commission on Technological and Environmental Safety and Exceptional Situations, a number of assignments were given to avoid an extraordinary situation in the city of New Division. Today, the government is working with the Lviv district administration, with the deputy body of the local government of the city of New Division to address the heating period in the city of New Division in a comprehensive way. Yesterday, I was assigned by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to New Division, where I met with all the representatives of the territorial authorities. local representatives of the executive branch of the Lviv region, the working group of the city of New Division, and a timetable for the solution is being drawn up. The first step in this decision and the conclusion of this situation from such a deaf angle will be the first decision of the local self-government authorities to provide a return aid to Garant M to pay people the first tranche of wages to get them to work. And the government is contributing to the conclusion of restructuring contracts for gas and so on between Garant M and Ukratransgaz. So we very much hope that after our final decisions and reconciliations yesterday, the matter will be resolved in the near future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u3	One minute. Batenka has a very specific question. And then I'd like to ask you to sign up for the national MPs for a question to the minister. Turn your father on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear friends, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mrs. Alona, we are very grateful for the meaningful conceptual report you just made. I am equally grateful to you for yesterday’s visit to the city of Lviv and to the city of the New Section. I'd like you to share your impressions about the visit to New Division, because yesterday the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the air of one of the TV channels said that this is the only city in Ukraine that has a problem with the start of the heating season. I have a proposal for you, Mrs. Alona, to create some sort of interagency group that would take further steps to solve this problem, because in fact the problem of the New Distribution has not been removed, and we understand that the beginning of the heating season is still going to be delayed, and the city is going to go into cold with all the infrastructure objects in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your once again attention to this question. But I've already said that the government's authority has been adopted, in fact, which is already defined by all the central executive authorities that should be involved in the reconciliation of this issue. And there's also a commission working at the level of the area today, and there's also a graph of some work being done. But as I said, we are counting heavily on the first step that will allow the problem to be removed in the city to be decided by the local council. Today, City Council deputies meet at 11:30 p.m. and vote to assist their people, their citizens, and to enable them to get to work. For my part, I said that the government and the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Fuel, and Naftogaz of Ukraine, and the Prime Minister himself, and I, as the minister of community and territory development, are all working in inter-agency coordination on this issue. We're going to keep in touch with people, with the labour force, with businesses, and I think that you too, and I think we're going to sort this out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u6	Thank you. Please sign up for a question to the minister. I remind the National Deputies that the question should be solely on the subject that was mentioned as the topic of "hours of questions to the Government." Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u7	Please pass the word to Alexia Hotcharenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u8	Decentralization is an extremely important issue. I would like to hear not only the Minister here, but also the Prime Minister on such a matter. Now everybody's worried, I promised I'd always remind them of the Ukrainian teachers that our budget has forgotten. Yesterday we changed our budget in the 19th year, and for the first time in five years, the technocrat government cut the state budget. But the 2020 budget also does not plan to increase teachers’ salaries. I want to remind you that they promised a thousand dollars to give to teachers. I see that, by now, a movement has emerged, and some of the "People's Servants" have already started paying $100 an hour, right, not to teachers. I hope the teachers get their hands on it, and our government will change the budget, and that money will be planned. And as for the state subsidy. When you pay the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u9	Mr. Alexei, once again, I would like to ask you to emphasize what the Head said. Questions are being asked about the subject that is being addressed today. The question you asked is to the Minister of Education. And the question of the authority that belongs to this minister will be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u10	No, it's not. The Minister of Education won't let us know the questions. Then we move on to the next one. About the subsidy? This is the Minister of Finance. That's right. You don't know the competence of ministers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then tell me, please. Turn on the minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u11	Mr. People's Deputy, according to budgetary legislation and the State Budget Act, the main fund manager for the DFRD is the Ministry. The Soccer Ministry of Finance is the main fund manager. It would be correct to ask this question to the Minister of Finance, if you please. So is the question of paying teachers, the minister of education. I, of course, as a member of the government, am participating in all the talks that are relevant to this issue, but it is more ethically and ethically to pass these questions on to the minister of profile. Please very much or give this opportunity to the government to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, next question, the national deputy of the Yuzanin. She's gone. Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u13	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u14	It's a princess. Please, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u15	Thank you. Madam Minister, you can't see me because my colleagues are standing here. If my colleagues break up, you'll see me. But I think you do. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u16	One second, I'm sorry, I'll give you a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you very much if anyone has an insurmountable desire to communicate with each other, there are the spheres of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to interfere with the broadcast of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I am addressing those deputies who are standing in the aisles. I give my word to Mr. Princely. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u17	Yes. Can I go first? Yes. Madam Minister, when you rule out, at your suggestion, district councils, no one will hear the characteristics of the regions at all. Because we have to take into account not only the territory and the population, but also the cultural characteristics, the characteristics of development. For example, high - level areas that in all lands are being developed according to a specific special plan. We don't have that plan. Like, by the way, when we're talking about Frankish, Highland and Kosovo. We also talk about agglomeration around Lvvv is Rudne, Brukhovich, villages and cities. The bill of agglomeration does not exist, and it is not clear whether these villages and cities will join the great district center, whether they have to form communities separately, and then work with this center. In short, there are a huge number of problems that, I think, if we delete district councils or representative authorities on the ground, which will be solved only by an official in Kiev, we will not be able to make an objective decision taking into account the interests of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u18	Mr. People's Deputy. Thank you very much for this question, because it is extremely important for the entire MP Corps to understand. The law of Ukraine says that unification of communities is voluntary. It is about volunteering to unite territorial communities, communities, and not representative bodies in the area. Therefore, we reinforce the possibilities, the authorization of those communities that go to unification on a voluntary basis, and this regional aspect is also settled through the professional representation of the district government. But there should be no mediator between the communities that are going together and the other representative body of local self - government at the level of the area. We have to make sure that the communities are really able to define themselves. But these regional aspects are taken into account through forward-looking plans that the district government approves. These forward-looking plans are designed to take into account the methods of the ability of communities, cultural, demographic, other aspects, and to that end, I've been providing information on what criteria are included in the methods of determining how communities are capable, in order to shape forward-looking plans based on this principle. On the contrary, however, we reinforce local self - government and local self - government bodies, which go to unification without interfering at the level of the area in their choice. And why does the government remain in the process of making forward-looking plans, is and how to ensure sovereignty, statehood in this state. Because the administration issue is still the authority of the state. So the combination of the interests of the unification communities and the national interests in the form of administrations is the right process of unification. Mediators don't need communities. I'll see you tonight as a minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u20	As a minister, I have been visited by several united communities who say that they are being prevented from making their decisions after the reunion. And we need to really have interest in the basic level of communities that are going together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u21	Thank you. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u22	I beg your pardon, Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u23	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u24	Minister, good afternoon! Thank you so much for your performance. The Voice faction will definitely support all positive and constructive initiatives for decentralization to be completed at the highest possible level. And from that point of view, I have a question for you. Minister, do you not think that considering the possibility of holding elections in the spring rather than in the autumn may pose a threat to decentralization logically and in stages? And I also have a second question for you. Please tell me, when will the DABI head contest be completed? And did it create, or would it create, a ministry of conditions for a virtuous business in a non-corruption way to obtain permits until the appointment of the new DABI leader? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Decentralization is taking place today within the framework of existing legislation, and it is being implemented on a voluntary basis. We are only today as a government doing everything we can to help communities make their choices based on the very criteria of ability. That's why. And the question of elections, it's up to you, honourable national deputies, so I wouldn't want to make any conditions here that threatens. Decentralization goes its own way. Now this is the priority of the government. We're working on this, we're adding you to this work, and we expect you to go out with us all on time, without delay, without moving these processes for years to come. Because we cannot continue to be poor, we must not now live with 6,000 400 small communities that are unable to provide services or services to their people. That's why we don't have to wait. And when the election is over, it's up to you. As far as Dábí is concerned. Thank you for asking. I would like to make a very important statement from this rostrum, which will be important to all investors in Ukraine, to all Ukrainian builders, to all authorities of local self-government. This is the information that the President of Ukraine told us. He said the government's job is to overcome corruption in DABI. And we started with what started with actions that go humane. There's a DABI-head contest going on. There's an interview today. Right now we're talking to you, we're having interviews, and we're going through this process. Next, the results of this competition will determine who will be the new head of the DABI. There will be further changes in the district representations of the State Archbudinspection. What you see is that there are other old representatives in some regions, another question that will be settled on the basis of the information that we are currently analyzing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u26	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u27	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Mrs. Alona, please tell me, I think a lot of seniors are interested in funding from the State Regional Development Fund for 2020, and the amount that we see in the State Budget is 9.5 billion dollars in the State Budget, it's clearly not in line with the Budget Code, it's been reduced. So it's a specific question. Will it not be adjusted during 2020, and will the procedure for financing important infrastructure objects change? And comment, please, 500 Orders. I think there's a lot of interest in 2019, because there's a lot of funding for many objects frozen, and the fact that this has been changed and reduced is clearly worrying a lot of areas, major MPs, how do we get out of this situation? Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u28	You know, as the minister responsible for the formation and implementation of national regional policy, I would like this fund to be half of our budget, and to be, in fact, the driver of the growth of the economy in the regions. But today, out of the government's budget, the government is set at 9.5 billion. I think these costs are going to be focused on the priority projects they're going to give, and they're going to be points of growth in the economy, of increasing jobs. So that's the principle that we would like to form, to define how the funds are used for this fund next year. Submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Law on Amendments to Article 24 pr. and suggests that the funding principles of the fund be changed to two-thirds of the budget. Well, if we take 9.5, two thirds, more than 6 billion to target projects that match regional development strategies, one third to finance sectoral support projects: medicine, education, culture and so on. And from this ratio of budget allocation, we're going to continue to transfer money to the region to be determined through competitions. With regard to the two thirds that are going to implement the strategy, there is the principle of distribution between areas by demographic indicators, and sectoral things are already going on competitive terms. However, the strategy for regional development and the selection of projects that fit the strategy is important. As far as sectoral support is concerned. According to the network, the optimal network of public services and services, we believe it will be necessary to collect objects for sectoral items. For example, schools of support, not just schools, hospitals, where they are determined by the primary aid schedule and so on. So please support the changes to 24 primes, and you and I will work together to improve the use of these funds for the next year according to these changes. As for 500, once again, I ask you to give my word for a thorough answer to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u29	Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u30	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Madam Minister, I've been meaning to focus on a few questions. First. In fact, you've been in Lviv, and for that we're grateful to the government, and we think it's not the kind of operation that people expected, because two months in Novoyavrovsk, New Rostol, there was no real preparation for the heating season. And people want to hear it specifically: When will it be warm? My question still applies to decentralization. When we speak of united territorial communities and that the district councils have been expelled from this process and are authorized only by district administrations, to whom do you trust: more district administrations, which complex programs were made up of cabinets, and those elected by citizens, i.e. the deputies of district councils, were excluded? I am interested in mountain areas. What standards? If you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u31	Dear National Deputy, we trust the communities that have expressed their desire to unite voluntarily, and they must be at the heart of this process. I'm sorry. District councils today do not fully represent the interests of those who go to unity. There is no absolute proportion. The proportional representation of these communities in the district councils, we hear it all the time, we see it, and there are the same complaints from the communities themselves that are going to unite, that their interests are not represented in the deception of their communities. I think it's our evolutionary path that we're going to go through together. And we encourage you to join the working groups that we will be holding to discuss forward-looking plans in the areas starting next month. We invite all major MPs. We'll officially send invitations when we go to the region and communicate there. We very much ask for your support and your experience, your understanding with the community. But the primary foundation to which we trust is those communities that have expressed their desire to go to voluntary unity. With regard to the New Criterion. Dear colleagues, I think everyone understands what two months is, but the government has only been able to conduct a selection contest for the governor for the New Order at the end of September. There are certain procedures we couldn't go through, and we followed 300 million debt for gas, 11 million debt for wages, 90 million debt for electricity. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for these enterprises to not work in the same mode as they did last year, and to accumulate these crazy debt ratios, we're doing everything we can to get them into the heating season. In the legal field, for contracts to be made, the principles laid down for the distribution of the formulae in terms of the distribution of funds coming from consumers and wages and transportation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u32	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u33	So this is the regime, I'd say, archiving, coming out of the circumstances we're in. You know, for the first time we've run Bold in normal mode, we've run the Donba enterprises in normal mode without breaking the seals. We did everything we could, we ran all the TECs. For the first time, we launched the state TEC on time in the heating season! All the decisions the government could make during the month before the start of the heating season were made by the government. All cities now have nominations and are ready for heating. This is a critical situation in connection with the huge debts of the previous period. We say nothing about what we imitate. We're working now. And this is the optimal speed mode we're in. Please take an understanding view of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u34	Thank you. Kostenko Roman Vasilovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u35	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u36	Roman Mikhailovich Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u37	Minister, you don't see me much right now, but I'm sure you can hear me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u38	Mr. Herus, Mr. Herus, please step aside. You can't see what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u39	I'd like to really thank you for that job, including the consulting that you're doing with the communities right now. In particular, we are also holding such meetings, they took place last week in Lviv, Ternopil and Ivano-Frankow areas. We talked to communities in Sokolniky, in Styrka, in Skala Podilski, in Borsztevsky district, Cologne, Supernatural. Please tell us what other tools besides meetings in the areas to which we will necessarily join, do you suggest that each community can say its own vision and we have heard the right suggestions? And yet, back to the last two questions. You didn't answer to the end. If the MPs make the May elections, won't the decentralization reform come to an end, do you think? And as for the DABI, what do we do now that the new headmaster is not assigned? How to get in a non-corruption way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u40	On the other hand, I'll start from the last, with corruption in DABI. Every person knows about corruption with DABI. And I think if we're going to meet with you in a little while and someone is going to say that he went with money to some back office or some structure, that's the question, more faithfully, the answer to the question whether the human resources decisions taken by the government would really allow for the removal of corruption in the DAB. But it's not just the personnel issues that solve the issues of corruption. There are still many decisions to optimize the operation of this structure, to make changes to the implementation and supervision process, and to automate the process of obtaining permits, and to involve local self-government at the point of putting objects into service. These are complex systemic solutions to overcome corruption. Sadly, though, you and I have also imitated in the DABI the vast number of objects that have been granted permits on illegal grounds. And now there's a huge challenge for the government to do with those objects that were built, some people live in, but they were built with a violation of arbitrary documentation. Perhaps we will have to go out to you, distinguished national MPs, and make decisions that are amnesty-specific, decisions that may be made to dismantle individual objects or to understand what certain public conflicts are where these objects are built and to go out to public hearings and to continue making decisions. This is a complex reform system that we are committed to. The Prime Minister is also personally taking part in this process. The president, as I said, agrees at a higher level with all law enforcement authorities today to be involved in overcoming corruption in DABI. So I think it's important to say it from this very rostrum today. As far as the election is concerned and so on. The question is, if we go to the elections, it's desirable that we go to the elections on a new administrative basis, when the basic level is the community, and all the communities are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u41	Thank you. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, may I have a moment in the hall of silence? Stop the minister's time, please. We had our first month of work. Mr. Tishchenko, I asked for one minute. Dear colleagues! Colleagues! The "Serial of the People" faction, please be quiet for a minute, may I? One minute. Everyone was very confused when the government didn't come to us for an hour of questions to the government. Now there's a minister, and he'll tell you who wants to listen in the hall isn't much. If it's not. Wait, I'll be right there. I didn't say so much, I didn't say it. If this is not interesting, let us not waste our time, time of government, or invite the government to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If necessary, let us listen to the answers to questions raised by your colleagues. Let's respect each other. Sit down, please! Please take your seats. Today is not such a busy day. Should I put the rostrum up? I think it's a higher rostrum. It's not a higher culture. Thank you. Please turn on the microphone of Kucherenko Aleksija Yuriovich. What do you mean? I'm sorry, didn't you answer? Answered, answered. No, I'm sorry, but two minutes to reply, time was up. Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Head. Madam Minister, thank you for your statement. There is no doubt about the inevitability of the decentralization process, which is the basis for the formation of tergroms. But the foundation of the territorial communities is also infrastructure. Two specific questions to you. Six million households today suffer from payments, bills, and gas distribution companies for so - called freezing factors. I think it's about 12 to 14 billion dollars. Why is this shameful moment still unstoppable? Debt can be restructured, but debt cannot be accumulated further. That's the first one. And the second. You have decentralized tariffs, which has led to dozens of tariffs being overrun today by one and a half times. What Is Your Vision? Will the State control the tariff process or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u43	In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Housing Services, local self-government is the authority of local governments. The government owns only individual property that provides services to people. Usually all heat plants, water supplies are owned by local communities. So we think of it as a government that should fully implement the authority of local self-government in matters of ownership. In order to ensure proper investment in infrastructure, at least communities need to make decisions on strategies for their businesses and investment plans. Today, regulation through the NCRECR is limited to the annual planning period. No city, no mayor knows how he can make any agreement on investing in a utility infrastructure facility without realizing what would happen to tariffs in the implementation of such an investment plan. It can't go on like this. The authorization of those who make investment decisions, the allocation of grants from the local budget, the support of the same citizens, and the one who makes tariff decisions should be agreed upon. The state will control only the part where it has to supervise and control: part of energy surveillance and control, payment of work, allocation of subsidies for targeted and targeted housing services. We can. I understand you're talking about state and housing inspection. For example, as a minister, I support the idea of creating a housing-communal inspection as part of a clear mandate on the possibility of bringing citizens to terms with the quality of services, the calculation so that they don't have to be decided through the courts, and that there should be an authority that would help people figure out the transition to a percentage.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u44	Thank you. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u45	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Mrs. Alona, you know, we have two kinds of communities today. Some who are united, others who are not united. So I'm giving you an example. Czernigivka district, Chernigivské OTG. There is a district government with a number of officials. There's a district council. And the OTG was created completely within the area. It takes more time to enact laws in order for the OTG to be administered both by municipal property and by land and by all property. And it is necessary to ensure that neither the district council nor the district administration no longer have authority in the territory of the united territorial community. That's the first one. And the second. Note that quite a number of conclusions about voluntary mergers have been made in the district government. And there's something to be done about it. This is a voluntary union, and many of these communities are capable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u46	Thank you so much for these important things. And, indeed, today, under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister, regular selector meetings are held with the heads of the district administrations who are required to conduct all the reconciliation meetings and to maximize the potential for areas to cover the territory of Ukraine with such plans. So that they don't get stuck in the ODA. As far as the districts are concerned. You know, in fact, the question of defining areas is solely the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The government can submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the definition of area boundaries in order to ensure that the process of optimization, numbering and so on is carried out as quickly as possible. We can go this way. But today, within the framework of current legislation, the government has decided to optimize the number of staff, individual recommendations through the 606 draft, where proposals for changes to the optimum structure in those areas are being made, I called them 22, where the district borders are completely consistent with the OTG, so that the structure of the district administrations can be reduced, depending on the authority, so that there is no duplication of these powers, so that there is no waste of public budget. That is why we have a variety of approaches to this issue, and today we are operating within the framework of legislation, and the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers has already addressed all the proposals in the area in order to optimize numbers by coming out of the real situation of unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u47	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I address the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Don't distract, please, Mr. People's Deputy, don't distract the Head! Mr. Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u49	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u50	You yourself have seen the inefficiency of this hour of so-called questions to the government. You look at the government's bed. The Prime Minister's got these "decided," he can't listen at all, and so it's like "the hour of questions to the government."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u51	Mr. Prime Minister, you're being approached by a national deputy!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u52	Gentlemen "decided"! Please release the government's bed!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u53	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u54	I'm addressing the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u55	Colleagues! They can't even hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u56	You can make sure that the Prime Minister and the government officials work so that these "decisions" don't distract them somehow, and they listen to questions from the Ukrainian national MPs? I have a question. When will the Gas Transit Agreement be signed? To the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u57	I think it'll be right if they hear the national MPs the same way when they go to the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Please turn on Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich's microphone. I can't hear you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u58	I'm asking you again. First. We've been listening to Alona Valeriyovna about decentralization, about how territorial community budget issues will be resolved. But it's a complete lie. Because today the lion's share of the budgets of the territorial communities goes to excesses, to pay for excess housing and utility tariffs for budgetary organizations. We have 3 billion dollars in the budget next year. US$ 3 billion in transit through Ukraine through the Russian gas transport system to Europe. In fact, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine failed the negotiation issue. And I am addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine, this is your area of responsibility. We need you to give a clear answer: When will the agreement be signed and when will the budget of Ukraine receive $3 billion next year? Otherwise, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u59	Thank you. Time's up, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Mr. Goncharuk. Please turn on the prime minister of Ukraine microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u60	Can you hear me? Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to your question is as follows. The agreement is not signed solely on the Ukrainian side. For it to be signed, we need to agree on the terms of this agreement. We're doing everything we can to get the deal signed as soon as possible. To that end, thank you, honourable deputies, yesterday you voted an important law on the banning of Naftogazu, which brings us closer to that goal. We will have a regulator working under European rules, which gives us the opportunity to appeal to our European partners, allies and to take a joint position in the negotiations. Negotiations are ongoing. But as you well know, with the Russian Federation, we have, to put it mildly, not the simplest relationship. And it didn't come up yesterday or yesterday. So I can't tell you the exact date of signing the new agreement because it needs to be signed by the Russian side. When we reach a signing agreement with them, we will be able to see. But we're now on Ukrainian interests, and that means we're going to require a long-term contract, not one year, and we're going to demand transit guarantees in sufficient quantity to be able to handle the gas transport system. So no one's going to tell you a clear date right now. But we, both Naftogaz and the government of Ukraine, and with the help of the President's team, are doing everything we can to get the deal signed as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time to deal with government issues is running out, and the time for questions to the government is running out. I'd like to thank our colleagues. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you, officials. Let's move on to the next question. Sure. Turn on the microphone, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, our faction is the same as our colleagues from Fatherland, Voice, the Opposition Platform for Life, will soon know the deputies of the People's Servant behind their backs. Because for the first time, we see a situation where a minority -- the opposition -- is separated from the room simply by their colleagues' backs. There is no law, no hearing in the Supreme Council, when we can see a rostrum, speaking, not the backs of colleagues. This is the absolute fault of the ruling party, which at such a plantation insisted, when we divided these sectors of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the session hall. But we refer to you as the presiding officer with the following. You're the head of the entire Supreme Council. Don't comment, please, on the speeches of our deputies, you do this all the time. Please state the order in the hall so that the deputies sit in the seats and so that we can see your faces, not your colleagues' backs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u63	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s regulations on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u64	Thank you, Mr. Head. So over the course of our plenary week, 203 parliamentary inquiries were made and made by the people’s deputies. The first came to us as President of Ukraine. Therefore, we must first vote in favour of the request by at least one third of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, honourable colleagues, there is an open-ended roll-call vote to support Andri Lopushanski's request to the President of Ukraine for failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 543/2019 of 22 July 2019 on the development of the Ukrainian Carpathian region. Please identify yourself and vote. [[11:13:05]] For-94
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u65	He didn't get 150 votes, so I'd like to move on to reading the questions. So the questions. From Olga Savchenko to the prosecutor of Kiev regarding the inaction of the officials of the Volosiow Police Department of the National Police in Kiev. John Shinkarenk and Alexander Tkachenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the examination of the facts of the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Alexander Horobac's temporary duty as head of the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the destruction of the Ukrispirt State Enterprise through the loss of purchases of goods at higher prices. Andrija Kota to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the circumstances and taking into account information regarding the appointment of Sergey Blescone as Director of the State Enterprise Ukrispirt. Andrija Kota to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the opening of criminal conduct in relation to Sergey Bleskun and the verification of information in connection with his appointment as Director of the State Enterprise, Ukrcspirt. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of compensation to budgetary and non-budgetary institutions for actual expenses for the average salary of a staff member who has been mobilized Igor Goose is under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine for the safety of food and consumer protection, the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the possible exceptional environmental situation at the location of Lake Lezna Vladimir Volinsky, Volinsk Region and the necessity of carrying out appropriate checks. Vladimir Kabachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Ukraine on Budget, Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the provision of funding for a medical facility. Elisabeth Bogacka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of the child’s surgical department "Cramatorska’s City’s City Cancer Dispensor". Alexander Kunicko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of Ukraine's Central Service Centre for the introduction of driver tests. Sergey Gryvka to the head of the public shareholders' association of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine on the overall rates of gas consumption and consumption. Andrija Nikolayenka and Olga Bilkova to the National Securities and Stock Market Commission on the provision of information on the situation surrounding the disclosure of regulated information and reporting and/or administrative data by participants in the stock market to the National Securities and Stock Market Commission. Victoria Kinsburg to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the insufficient level of insulin supply for patients in need of insulin therapy. Igora Vasilíví to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds (subsidies) from the State budget of Ukraine for the purchase of medical equipment to the municipal facilities of Podvoločice and Lanovetsk districts of the Ternopil region. Igora Vasilíví to the head of the Department of State in the Ternopil area on the need for an inspection visit. Jury Boyka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for providing information on the extent and structure of the outstanding pension payments to people who are in charge of the Pension Fund and who live in the uncontrollable areas of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, internally displaced persons (WPOs), as well as other categories affected by the conflict. Bogdan Kitsak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the purpose of allocating funds for the reconstruction of the DP airport "Zitomir International Airport" named S.P.Korolova. Bogdan Kitzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukraine’s Health Minister, for improving social security, improving the quality of life of children with diabetes. Antonini Slavicka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of anti - epidemic and preventive measures to prevent complications of diphtheria. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Heraszczenko, Ionova) to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the order and scope of funding from the State budget of Ukraine of the National Deserved Academy of Ukrainian People's Choir of Ukraine named G.H. Verovka. Groups of National Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionova, Pavlovka) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the initiation of negotiations with Turkey to include all members of the State Duma of the Russian Federation illegally elected in 2016 from Crimea in Turkish sanctions lists, and on measures to prevent recognition in the international arena of the illegal annexation of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol by the Russian Federation. Andrija Boblaha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to conduct an official review of the activities of the village head of Kovalivka, Poltava district, Poltava district of Bublika Alexandre Vasilovich and his brother, the national deputy of Ukraine, VII - VIII, on the appeal of Bublik Yuri Vasilovich on the abuse of power and service. Dmitra Putnam to Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the possible involvement of the employees of the National Police Department in Kharkiv region in the illegal occupation of citizens' transportation. John Shinkarenk and Alexander Tkachenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community and Territory Development of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Odessa District Public Administration regarding the resolution of socio-economic development issues in the Odessa region. Groups of National Deputies (Mishenec, Shinkarenka, Tkachenka) to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office for Information on the Status of Criminal Investigation. Tetjana Grishchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the amendment of the Regulations on the allocation of housing subsidies. Groups of national deputies (Godutsky, Bogdansky, and others) A total of 56 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the children's shelter "Sunday". Solomonia Bobrovsky, head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine on the coverage of radio broadcasting in certain regions of Ukraine. Alexia Kucherenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 26 June 19th, No. 560, which establishes border prices/tariffs for certain residential and utility services. Alexia Kucherenka is under the leadership of the Ukrenergo National Energy Company on the state of integration of Ukraine's energy system with the network of European energy systems. Solomonia Bobrovsky and Lesi Vasilko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the use of state funds for the purchase of legal services in Andrea Rockelli and others v. Ukraine. Paul Halimon to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, for the conduct of an improper review of the former first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine. Jury Kiesel to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Health Minister to provide for the needs of the Dnipropetrov Regional Council's "Criminal Emergency Medical Station" with a modern 23-unit ambulance with the aim of providing adequate medical care to the population of the cities of Krivi Rig, Yellow Waters, Five-Heads, Apostolic, Greenfields, other Dniproperty stations. Jury Kissilla to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the solution for the local community of Krivi Rig to the issue of the allocation of 100 million dollars from the State budget of Ukraine for the development and improvement of infrastructure at Krivi Rig International Airport in order to ensure the development of passenger and freight transport. Sergey Bunin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on inefficient governance and numerous abuses by officials of the State Enterprise Ukraine. Michael Cimbaluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-reorganization and the need to preserve the municipal non-commercial enterprise of the Lviv District Council of the Lviv Regional Children's Hospital "OHMATDIT". Igora Kolyhayeva is headed by the Herson District State Administration to facilitate the allocation of funds for the implementation of the project entitled "Capital repair of premises and internal networks of part of the building of the commune "High-Copilal Central District Hospital". Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the government of the public shareholder association of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, the minister of energy and environmental protection of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the underwater inter-urban gas pipeline of the high-pressure village of Burgunk in the region of Hersson. Michael Bondar to the Chief of the Lviv Region Road Service, Head of the Lviv Police Department of the Lviv Region, temporarily acting as Director of the Department of Road Traffic, Transport and Communications of the Lviv Regional Administration for the transfer of noise lanes on the international route of Kiev-Cop to the beginning of the township of Busk or the establishment of counter-forest screens to provide comfortable living conditions. Michael Bondar to the head of the Head of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Lviv region for information on the employment experience of Dmitr Horpenjuk Brodiv district of Lviv district. Alexander Bakumov, head of Ukraine’s State Border Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the inclusion of Kharkiv’s separate Air Force State Border Service in the list of military units under the leadership. Alexander Bakumov to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Director of the Education Department of the Kharkiv City Council, Director of the Department of Science and Education of the Kharkiv District State Administration on the social security of teachers and the material and technical provision of the public educational institutions of the city of Kharkiv. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures to investigate and address the problem of the avalanche of Lake Světaść and Lake Shaka lake in the Volinsk region. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of reconstructions and capital repairs of general family medicine clinics in conjunction with the International Bank for the Reconstruction and Development of the Public Health Improvement Project. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ionova, Pavlenko) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to investigate the beating of an African outpost at the ABB capital supermarket and the use of anti-racism and discrimination measures. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legal settlement of the issue of privatization of the land by citizens who are joint owners of the house with several owners, have no separate address and cannot obtain the consent of one of the co-owners of the house. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financial provision of benefits to citizens for free travel in public transport. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent repair of the crash areas of the road in the direction of Curve Rig - Yellow Water - Fifth. Dmitry Black to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent capital repair of roads along the direction of Vilnius - Upper Provsk, Vilnius - Dmitry and Dmitry - Pushkarovka. Igora Murdy to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the Elimination of Labour Law Violations in UDP "Ukrinteravtoservis". Anatolia Kostuha to the Director of the State Archives of Zakarpatsk district for information on the list of users and owners of the basement building, which is at the address: Uzhgrad, Street Brastajków, 7. Roxolana Podlasa to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the increase in the expenditure of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for 2020. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the deepening of industrial crises. Anna Speedy to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the provision of information and its documentary confirmation. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the head of the National Police of Ukraine, the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration on the environmental situation in the Yakimiv district of Zaporozhye, which resulted from the dumping of mined water into bets located in the area of Kiril’s unified rural community, within the Utląjka liman of the Azow Sea. Vladislav Borodin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget reserve fund to continue financing the reconstruction of the collector in Novomoskowsk Dnipropetrovsk region. Vladislav Borodin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the state budget reserve fund for the repair of the crash route across Gethtmanska Street in the city of Novomoskovsk Dnipropetrovsk. Alexander Kunicko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the review of Cabinet of Ministers Order No. 1049 in part of the use of district council budgets for financing veteran organizations. Ladies Bullach to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the implementation of the International Classification of Diseases (ICC-11). Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance, on the urgent recovery of funding for the socio-economic development of individual areas in part of the budgetary commitments registered in the Treasury on October 30, 2019. The Sofias of the Federation to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of local authorities, law enforcement and control authorities in the protection of the environmental rights of the citizens of Boguslav, as a result of the dangerous activity of the TempP. Paul Froll to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, on the use of urgent measures to preserve the "Medieval Kiev Coastal District" in the Postal Square as a monument to national importance. Paul Frolová to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the application of measures to simplify the procedure for obtaining the first passport of a Ukrainian citizen by persons residing in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine. Arsenia Pushkarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the balance of local budgets. Arsenija Pusharenka to the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, the Žitomir District State Administration on the need to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the loss of fish in the rivers of Uz and Gomorrah in the territory of the Žitomir Region and take the necessary measures to address the environmental disaster and to bring the guilty to justice. Groups of National Deputies (Klimpush-Cincadze, Heratchenko and others). A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the exclusion of gender-law and anti-discrimination experts from draft legislation, in accordance with the adopted amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers regulations of Ukraine since 9 October 2019. Viacheslava Rublova to the temporary duty of head of the State Service of Ukraine on food security and consumer protection, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to amend the State Health Regulations and Standards, to maintain public educational institutions and to organise the educational process. 5.5.2.0 08-0. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repair of the road from the city of Balgrad to the crossing point of the New Trojans. Alexander Gorenyuk to the Odessa City Head for taking measures to protect children from groups, sections, clubs in Odessa. Alexander Guerrega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to bring the amount of pension insurance in accordance with article 13, part 2, of the Ukrainian Law on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Sergey Steps to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the difficult environmental situation in Zaporozhye related to atmospheric air pollution Andrea Kostina to the temporary duty of head of the Poltava District State Administration to provide housing for Nina Onopco’s family, in line with the October District Court of Poltava of February 28, 2001. Larissa Bilozer to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Veterans, Temporary Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine to simplify the procedure for granting status as a member of a dead family to members of the families of dead ATO participants. Victoria Kinsburg, acting as Head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, acting as Head of the General Administration of State Housing in Kharkiv Region for the activities of the production capacity of the "Saltov Meatcombinate" in the residential area of the dormitory area of Kharkiv on the street of Krasnodarska, 171 B.C. Jean Belenjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the approval of the standard states for specialized education institutions of the I-IIth degree of sports profile with specific learning conditions. Jean Belenjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of payment for boarding school tuition. Zinovija Andiovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for Capital Repair of Road C-090902 Suverna-Lanchin. Zinovija Andrivović to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of a kindergarten in the village of Billi Oslava, the region of Suvirnjan, the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Tetjana Grishchenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer to the municipal property of the City Village Council of the Radomisl district of Žitomir area of land and other movable and immovable property within the settlement, which is on the balance of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the gasification of the village. Dmitry Schenchev to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of illegal sand mining in the village of Šesakow Vovčany district of Kharkiv region. Alons Schrum to the head of the Ukrainian President's Office to provide information on the restructuring of the Ukrainian President's Office and the status of employees at the Office of the President of Ukraine. Andrew Lopushanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u66	One minute, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, announcements. Mr. Bakumov. Bakumov People's Deputy? Or you could be seen with your face, not with other parts of your body. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the factions' heads to meet in my office for a meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u67	Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the revitalization of activities in the area of protection of cultural heritage. Anna Wheeler to the executive responsibility of the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for providing information on DFS performance indicators. Alexander Litvinov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the law enforcement agencies of the Kharkiv region. The government of Sweden to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to violations of existing legislation. Am I intruding, Mr. Arthur? . to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to violations of existing legislation in the field of service, carried out by the head and officials of the Kyiv City State Administration. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to meet the requirements of legislation regarding the creation of foster families and family homes. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the fulfilment of the requirements of articles 1, 30, 30 pr. The Ukrainian Child Protection Act is part of the protection of children in the war zone and children who have suffered as a result of armed conflict. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an urgent settlement of the problem of the rapid increase in debt on payment of wages. Stepan Kuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of implementing the Ukrainian President's mandate to reduce the amount of maintenance costs. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, temporarily acting as head of the Ternopil district government administration, the head of the Equality District State Administration, the head of the Lviv District Public Administration to resolve the issue of the reduction of damages in the Ikva River. Romana Ivanisov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal allocation of agricultural land in the territory of the Council of Unknown Persons. Vladimir Ivanov to serve as head of the Chief Executive of the Department of the Ministry of Health, the Ivanovian village head of the Johnish region of the Hersson region, the head of the John’s District Council of the Hersonian region, the head of the John’s District State Administration of the Hersson region, to provide information on land within the framework of the John’s district of Hersson for the purpose of analysing the organization of their rational use, and to ensure the right of citizens to acquire land within the limits of the standards of free privatization. Vladimir Ivanov to serve as Head of the General Directorate of the Department of the Ministry of Health, Head of the High Regional Council of the Hersonian Region, Head of the High Regional Administration of the Hersonian Region, Head of the High Regional Administration of the Hersonian Region, for the provision of information on land within the Highlands of the Hersonian region for the purpose of analysing the organization of their rational use, as well as ensuring the right of citizens to acquire land within the limits of the rules of free privatization. Valeria Davidenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on granting subsidies from the State budget to the local budgets of the Chernigian region for socio-economic development. Valery Davidenk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District Council, Head of the Kyiv Regional Government Administration for Promoting Effective Activities of the National University of Bioresources and Environmental Use of Ukraine, Boyar Forest Research Station. Paul Melnik to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for information on the dynamics of income from environmental taxes and other financial contributions for damage caused by violations of environmental legislation as a result of economic and other activities, to budgets of all levels, as well as for experts' opinions on the development of relevant draft laws of Ukraine regarding changes in the rates of these taxes. Groups of National Deputies (Ivanisova, Cultenka, and others) A total of 62 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the impossibility of the continued presence of Constantine Kulik in the post of Attorney General of Ukraine. Boris Prijdjka to the Minister for the Development of the Communities and Territories of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of Chernigivgaz, Head of the Government of the Czernihiwoblanergo Association for Payments for Housing and Utilities to the rural population of the region of Chernigiv. Marijana Bezugola to Kiev City Head on the development of a water cascade system of lakes and the Pocaña River with a park area in the Obolon district of Kiev Igora Negulewski to the Infrastructure Authority of the Mikolai District State Administration for the repair of the Pontonic Bridge in the Snigur region of Mikolaiiv. Igor Negulewski to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to restore funding for socio-economic development measures and programmes and projects funded by the State Regional Development Fund. Artema Dubnov, head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the conduct of the audit. Oksana Savchuk to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science, Education and Innovation, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the use of response measures to prevent violations guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine of the rights of education workers. Oksana Savchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to ensure full education and medical subsidies for local budgets. Hennady Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on the need for State support for agricultural producers: private agriculture and agriculture and the population. The Gennady of Watzak to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine regarding the restoration of funding for socio-economic development. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the eradication of corruption risks and schemes. Alexia Zmerenecki to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for Redistribution of Expenditure between Budget Programmes and Payments to the limited liability of ABI UKRAIN for the provision of licensed software to executive authorities in 2013. Alexia Gmerenecki to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Supervisory Board of the Association of Stock Exchanges for the provision of information. Groups of National Deputies (Gorvata, Lunchenko and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure that vaccination is properly covered and collective immunity is created in educational institutions. Groups of National Deputies (Gorvata, Lunchenko and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of discrimination against persons involved in hostilities in other states. Olga Savchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the officers of the Investigative Department of the National Police in the Kyiv Region and the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region. Marina Bardinau to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the pollution of Lake Harjačka in the Darnicki district of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u68	I'm sorry, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u69	Marina Bardinau to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the comfort of citizens at the CIVC in Lugansk Stanica. Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the questions that have come this week. We can continue to work on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, we're done. Any questions? Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u71	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. In view of the fact that you know that the Law of Ukraine on Amendments to the Rules has become effective today, you know that each vote is already crucial for national deputies to have a salary. You did not warn the Ukrainian National Deputies that there would be a presidential vote at the time of the parliamentary request. I urge you to put up and re-vote the request to the President without warning the Ukrainian people's deputies, and some Ukrainian national deputies have not been able to take advantage of their duty to vote. I would like to re-vote the request to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I do not think that people who adopt laws need further clarification as to what they have accepted. That's the first one. The other one. Will you let me finish? The other one. The rules do not provide for such "return on an additional vote in favour of the issue that has been voted on in the framework of the declaration of parliamentary motions". Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Society, me. I thank you for calling in the MPs. And we're moving on to the following issues of the agenda. Next question. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Earth reform: a country model for the circulation of agricultural land" on 4 December 2019. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. There is a suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. Project registration number 2251. Dear colleagues, I am asking for a vote on the use of simplified, I'm sorry, a simplified procedure for the consideration of the draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Earth reform: a domestic model for the circulation of agricultural land" (December 4, 2019). Project registration number 2251. Please vote and vote. [[11:45:20.]] For 212 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Agrarian and Land Policy Committee, Mikola Tarasovich Solski, to report. I would also like to ask you not to break up, because there will be two, two, against and we will go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u73	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture and Land Policy, taking into account the discussions that are taking place in society on the issue of the abolition of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural duties and the introduction of land circulation, was invited to hold parliamentary hearings on 4 December 2019 on the theme "Earth reform: a country model for the circulation of agricultural land". In the process of discussing the question of what the land market should be, we have seen once again that there is no single and consolidated opinion among the agrarians, as among us national MPs. The opinions of experts and scientists regarding the date from which the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land will be removed are also fundamentally different. Some insist on the immediate introduction of the land market, others generally suggest that this be postponed for a considerable period, and some support the gradual introduction. However, the moratorium cannot last forever; Ukraine, as a civilized European country, must cancel the moratorium and stop violating the constitutional rights of citizens with regard to the free administration of their property. That is why the committee was invited to hold parliamentary hearings to discuss the formation of a country-wide model of land circulation for the appointment of representatives of authorities, local governments, agrarian associations, public organizations. profile international organizations, scientists, experts, owners and users of agricultural land, business representatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u74	Thank you, Mikola Tarasovich. Dear colleagues, please. Does this matter need to be discussed? He needs it. Then I ask you to sign up: two in, two in, two in factions and groups. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Alexi Yuriovich Kucherenka, faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union. Yeah, I'm sorry, National Deputy Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u75	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you have just heard a perfectly logical step: the committee unanimously decided to hold parliamentary hearings, where there will be 450 agrarians, people who touch agriculture, owners of pies, investors. We need to hear before making any decisions, and that's what the committee head said, to hear about Ukrainian society. You know, we're the deputies who represent the Ukrainians today. And why does the Fatherland faction always say that we can't reform against the Ukrainians and those who actually oppose the market of the land. All sociological surveys indicate that 80 percent of people today do not want to introduce the land market in the context proposed by the agrarian committee. Well, the Ukrainians don't want Ukrainian land being processed by foreigners today. They won't. Well, maybe we should ask people in a referendum, do parliamentary hearings and hear the leaders of associations today, hear people today who invest and invest in Ukrainian land. And it's only then that any consideration of these bills is possible. Don't be hasty. Don't hold a secret committee meeting. Don't do it under your dress. It is important to discuss with society what is to be done in Ukraine. And, of course, colleagues, Fatherland will be actively involved in these parliamentary hearings. And by the way, one of the initiators of these parliamentary hearings was Julia Timoshenko, who was present on the agrarian committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u76	Thank you. National MP Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, "Serve of the People" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u77	Good day to you all! It's absolutely the right initiative. But once again, you have to make a little pen. It was to be carried out even before the idea of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry out and implement agrarian reform in the form of a proposal for the Free Trade Act. Again, what did this lead to? As we can see, the Ukrainian Parliament and, in general, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have received another and another crisis of communication with Ukrainian society. And this breakup is now trying to compensate for the holding of these parliamentary hearings. Again, the purpose of the U.S. referendum is a big question because there are several nuanced issues. Again, in a way, to hold an all-Ukrainian referendum, if the majority of the Ukrainian population, it is urbanized and has absolutely no relation to the land or, in fact, it has not seen that land in its life. So once again, it's going to be extremely difficult to do that in practice. But in general, the practice of holding parliamentary hearings, when we hear absolutely all the views of the various representatives of the Ukrainian society, who consider all of them for and against, and only after that can we, within the framework of the bill, lay down all these basic things, and it is absolutely right. I therefore ask Parliament to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u78	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." Out of place, Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u79	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u80	I'd like to invite National Deputy Natalia Royal. Please, Mrs. Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! "The Opposition Platform for Life," certainly, supports the holding of parliamentary hearings. But I want to remind you of the absurdity of the situation. At first, the agrarian committee holds meetings underground, violates our rights as authors of alternative bills, decides to sell Ukrainian land, sell Ukrainian land to foreigners. And after that, you say, let's hold parliamentary hearings. So let's cancel this illegal decision of the profile committee first, gather the community, hold parliamentary hearings, decide that we're going to a referendum and we're going to decide on the next fate of Ukrainian land. Let people tell us what to do with Ukrainian land. Please tell us what kind of politician today has the right to take on the responsibility of selling out the future of Ukraine. That's why the position of our opposition platform is for life. Only now do we have to make decisions: continue the moratorium. Because since January 1, there will be no moratorium and everyone will already loot Ukrainian land. The second is just a referendum. The third is a global ban on selling land to foreigners. This should be the answer. And the fourth. Ladies and gentlemen, only 7 million Ukrainians have received pies today, and all other Ukrainians have not received pies. So it would be best for you to focus your attention on ending the passion, giving people today who are really underfunded, who really need support today, get their legal rations. And it's only after that that you and I can even raise that question. But it is not possible to sell Ukrainian land today without a referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u82	Thank you. I give the floor to National Deputy Yatzenk Anton Volodymyrovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u83	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Indeed, parliamentary hearings could be held, and even better it would be to hold a referendum, as the previous speakers rightly said. And what I'm saying is that we're really hoping that they won't pass the bill for discussion, even though there was already a "secret dinner" on the profile committee when they voted for the basis. And I want to remind everyone that in the 93rd year, when they said, remember, a voucher for privatization, that no one would steal a business, and then we had an oligarchy in the country called that. And now the same will be true of the earth. Thus, there is no way to record a moratorium on the sale of land right now. And I want to call on all majors, especially those in the village and village districts. You can't do that. So let us, of course, discuss, but the question should be in the interests of the people, not the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u84	Thank you. For reasons such as "European Solidarity" is the National Deputy of Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u85	Thank you very much. Rostislav Pavlovenko, "European Solidarity". European Solidarity has already said a lot in favour of these parliamentary hearings that first it is worth listening to and discussing all the specific problems that relate to land reform, then moving on to decision-making. And actually, these hearings would have to be directed at the answer, the questions that concern people, and why people in most of them are opposed to selling land. This also applies to peasant rights regarding guaranteed minimum price. This also applies to the non-admission of latifunda, the entanglement in the hands of a small number of people of large lands, and the prohibition of the sale of land to foreigners, and the main, clear procedure that would make it impossible to buy land into the hands of a Russian aggressor and associated persons, as well as protection against the possible criminalization of land and the legalization of that "raw market" that is. That is why we are in favor of these hearings. But most importantly, they should not exchange slogans, but they should apply to specific mechanisms for protecting people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u86	There will be two other people with a motive, please. Dear colleagues, we've been reading questions for so long, can we work without interruptions today? Yeah? Oh, no? Wait a minute, there's something planned for you, yes. Okay. Well, there's a denial. All right, then. My friends, I'd like to invite you, on the grounds of the National MP, Shahov. Then we go to the vote. I'll ask the faction leaders to provide the people's deputies. Please, National Deputy Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u87	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, hearings should indeed be conducted, but not so, in a closed, criminal way, as was the case with the committee, a decision has been made on the law of the sale of Ukrainian land. My district is right on the border with Russia. And people today don't even think about selling land or selling it. Because in article 13 of the Constitution, Ukraine is clearly defined in capital letters: "The country belongs to the Ukrainian people." Only a government bank can buy from a person who does not have an heir who wants to sell the land after a full audit of the Ukrainian land is carried out. Today, 25 million acres [25 million ha] of earth are uncounted and unpublished. Whom do you not ask in the hall, raise your hand, to whom were given two acres [2 ha] of land? Nobody. Therefore, we cannot place the land on sale today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u88	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kirilenko, Fatherland faction. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u89	Sir, thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Kirilenko, Fatherland. It's an original offer. Throughout the years of independence and our parliamentaryism, there has not been one form of work that is typical of the parliaments of the world. We held hearings, there were hundreds of them, we know their price. We have never had a debate in the walls of our Parliament. Friends, Brexit -- how long is the debate going on? Obama reform -- how long did the debate in the Senate and Congress last? When decisions are made that determine the country's fate for decades, or perhaps fate in general, hearing, passing a simple law: two, two, against, the rest, standing on the clock is not enough. I suggest we have a full debate day, two, a week. In each faction, every political force has its own vision. This vision reflects a certain part of society that voted in favour of this political one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u90	Please finish for 10 seconds. And I'm going to move on to the end of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u91	Friends, each faction goes to the rostrum, presents its vision, discusses the day. And when society sees it and feels it, we'll have a more important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Out of procedure, Nestor Ivanovich, out of procedure. Yeah, guys, I said again that I'm going to go on with this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u94	Please, Nestor Ivanovich. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're about to have a vote. But notice that there is no Supreme Council head and leaders of our factions. For the transcript: I ask them not to vote to be considered an important reason and not to be affected by the corresponding payments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, all national MPs are equal. And if they do, and I think they're going to get 70 percent, they're going to get their legal salary. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Earth reform: a native. "Ruslan Petrovich, why you keep yelling, I can't understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[B in m in s a l in]] What's going on in there that you keep yelling?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u97	We didn't put you here. The Ukrainian people put you there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Earth reform: a country-wide model of land circulation of agricultural destination" (December 4, 2019) (project registration No. 2251). Dear colleagues, please vote and support. [[12:02:38]] For 318 That's wonderful! For 318, the decision is made. Hello! A break is being announced. Meet me in this room at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I'd like that. Is Ruslan Petrovich Knyazevich there? Ruslan Petrovich, I want to apologize to you personally because, I take it, my words have been misinterpreted by you, and I don't want this to bring about any imbalance in the coordinated work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I give my word because under the Murphy Law everything that you may have been mistreated will necessarily be mistreated. So once again, Ruslan Petrovich, sincere words of apology. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a statement was made by the National MP of Ukraine Papiev to count my vote in favour of supporting the request of Ukrainian National Deputy Andrija Lopushanski to the President of Ukraine for failure to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Development of the Region of the Ukrainian Carpathian because the card did not work during the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm announcing this, but I just want to warn everyone that in any case these voices don't count, they don't count, nothing happens to them, but it's a political position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the Supreme Council's conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on Bill No. 1028 on amending article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine). According to article 147 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I report that the Supreme Council has reached the conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill (registration number 1028) with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine (for advisory, advisory and other subsidiary bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine) with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with part nine of article 147 of the Rules, I hereby order the Apparatus to deliver the prescribed conclusion of the Constitutional Court without delay. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to consider the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and prepare this bill for consideration at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Hearing the report of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. I suggest you consider this motion for a summary ruling. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:51:11]] For 222 Decision taken. Herus Andriy Mihajlovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u100	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The monopolization of the Ukrainian economy was one of the key topics before the elections, which remains after the elections. Many political forces spoke of the need for demonopolization, the need to build competition in the Ukrainian economy. Since the appointment of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, which was 2015, the committee has never reported to Parliament. Although under the law the Antimonopoly Committee is accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and should report on the state of competition in Ukraine and the fight against monopolies each year. In 2018, Ukraine had 83 seats in the global competitiveness rating. And the neighbouring countries were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, they were, The reasons for these indicators include the presence of a large number of markets in Ukraine in the state of monopoly and the absence of a level playing field for honest competition between businessmen. The fight against the abuse of monopolies and the protection and development of a healthy competitive environment are functions of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee, which, let's face it, has not been effective all this time. On the other hand, in individual markets — energy markets, fuel markets, chemistry markets, and other markets — the Antimonopoly Committee sometimes advocated monopolies. Demonopolization is what we promised our constituents. So in order to fulfill this promise, I propose to invite here, to Parliament, the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, who represents the committee by law in relation to Parliament, and to ask him when we will finally see the demonization as a result of the work of the Antimonopoly Committee. It is up to the head of the committee to determine how the body will work. The Collegiality of the Antimonopoly Committee is reflected in the collegiate decisions, but decisions are preceded by a process of research and investigation that is directly influenced by the head. So it is from him that we need to hear his evaluation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u101	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u102	What it's done to prevent this process, and how much longer do we have to wait to see the results of the demonopolization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u103	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I've had a few personal questions about what you're going to do, whether you're going to take off the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee. In order to clean up this conspiracy, I would like to say that the only thing we want to do is to do what is right for the parliament of Ukraine to do parliamentary control. I would like to remind you that the state of affairs in Parliament today is mostly the function of parliamentary control: it's the Court of Auditors, which oversees the budget; it's the Ombudsman, who oversees the observance of human rights; it's our regulatory committee, which oversees internal processes and it's an hour of questions to the Government. But there is another -- temporary investigators and temporary special commissions. I would like to remind you that, in our interests, to consolidate and standardize legislation in this area, which has unfortunately been promised (Law 1098) not long ago. And I call on my colleagues to reunite their efforts in order to reproduce the bill in this area. But as we return to parliamentary control, this is the purpose of calling here with the report of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee, because it allows us to obtain reliable and objective information about the actual performance of our duties and the authority of the relevant official and on the basis of this to make further decisions. So that's what this is all about. As a result of the discussion, members of the committee decided to submit a draft decree to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the hearing of the report of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the outcome of the first reading to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u105	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues — Is It Needed? Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u106	Please, Alexia the Potter. Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u107	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u108	Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, it's the right thing to do. Finally, we have the opportunity to listen and really call on the Supreme Council to listen to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, because there are a lot of questions. The reporters told us about the electricity market, some other things they called, not all of us listed the problem areas and sectors that are in Ukraine. I'd like to remind you, for example, another area where we have big problems is the airline sector. We have one company that has already covered the Ukrainian sky with its beard. We have prices for tickets that are nowhere in Europe. If anyone knows these places yet, I don't know them. Today I take a ticket from Kiev to Odessa to go back home to work, open a website, watch prices -- 5,000 to 6,000 dollars on the same side. And why is that? Because there is an absolute monopoly of one company. And as soon as some other airliners came out, what started? The Barish court appeared. It starts to take away licenses, it starts to close the sky so there's one person who dictates the prices of transportation. What do we see in the Supreme Council at the same time? And in the Supreme Council at this time, in the Transport Committee, a distinguished majority appoints a special advisor to this transportation committee of the president of the IAU Air Company, who worked for 26 years at the IAU Air Force. Conflict of interest? They didn't hear anything about it. We don't know anything about that. Instead of fighting monopolies on the Transport Committee of the Supreme Council, they want to support the monopoly. So I hope that this challenge of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee is not to solve your questions by November 14th, as some want to do, but to actually have a professional conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u109	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u110	To have a professional conversation about monopolizing life in the state, starting from heaven to earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u111	Thank you. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u112	I give the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u113	Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u114	Colleagues, we very much welcome this determination. We want to hear the Antimonopoly Committee. But we want to hear the figures clearly, and the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee is willing to report on major monopolies, including natural monopolies. Please note, as Mr. Honcharenko said. He was talking about heaven. We're talking about land. We have a chemical sector monopolized, which is actually 40 percent more mineral fertilizer than in any other country. So we want to hear what happened? Has the Antimonopoly Committee been raised in the following sectors: chemistry, chemical, including mineral fertilizers, communication, please, including the television market, where there is a monopoly? Please welcome the Antimonopoly Committee. We support this decision and be prepared for specific discussions in specific sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u115	Thank you. Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u116	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of Fatherland. Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainians. We live with you in a very interesting country. If you go out now and ask anyone, sorry, the average Ukrainian you're worried about, first of all, he'll say: total monopolization of everything that's going on around you. But if you look at our legislation, I can assure you that we have a very modern and progressive Antimonopoly Committee Act. And this breakup is probably gaining our economy today. I don't want to go into ideological controversy in any way. But what I'm saying is that the classic theory of liberalism, for example, generally says that there's no need for government interference in the market, that the magic hand of the market will sort things out. On the other hand, we're like a party that has the idea of a market-oriented economy, and we're convinced that the function of government regulation, both competitive markets and monopoly markets, has to be strengthened in such a difficult period. And that's where we stand. That is why we certainly support this decision. We want to have a frank professional conversation with the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee to see if, in fact, he was engaged in antimonopoly regulation, or whether he served interests or not. The only thing that really worries us is that we don't want these hearings and further decisions to be a tool for some powerful businessmen who are today in Parliament to make bills with other powerful businessmen. This is definitely unacceptable. So by supporting the draft of this decision, we will offer you a professional, uninvolved professional conversation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u117	Thank you. Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, indeed, this question has long come to light. But I would like to include in this report what milk prices are. Everybody knows, majors in particular, that, in fact, milk costs cheaper water today, and peasants buy it literally for no price, 4-5 bucks costs, even those prices. And that's a question that needs to be raised at the state level. Of course, it's the rear of the Antimonopoly. Because, for example, there has never been a test of the conspiracies of dairy producers who are pricelessly buying milk into peasants. So, of course, we have to pay attention to this question, which means it narrows down a lot of herbivory in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u119	Thank you. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich is a motive. And, dear fellows, after that, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear Chairman! I'm speaking from the faction, unfortunately, we were limited in the ability to speak. Surely we should listen to the Antimonopoly Committee. But, dear fellows, I want to defend our journalists now. After yesterday's, in fact, the threat that came from our colleague Yaremenka, who demanded responsibility from 3 to 7 years of our journalists for publishing his letter in iPhone. There has been a decision of the Constitutional Court since 2012, which clearly states that those Ukrainian citizens who are representatives of the authorities are not subject to the Constitution of the 31st and 163rd articles of the Criminal Code, which protect their rights to personal correspondence. Our colleague Jaremenko is a public figure. He is the bearer of authority. And it was copied with public people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u121	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u122	I want to reassure my fellow journalists, you have no threat. Of course, it is not always my pleasure when you place your work and mine so carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u123	Nestor Ivanovich, 10 seconds, I'm sorry, time's up. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I don't limit my freedom of speech at all, I even give it more than 30 seconds. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I am voting on the issue of acceptance as a basis and on the whole of the draft Ordinance on Hearing the report of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine (registration No. 2306). Please support and vote. [[13:05:44]] For 328 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 219, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 33, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 6, "The Voice" – 18, "The Non-Factional" – 14. Thank you. Decision taken. It's a motive character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! We welcome the wish of the Head of the Supreme Council to comply fully with the Rules. But we should note with regret that Parliament's leadership has been in grave violation of the Friday Rules for the past two months, because since the 13th hour, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Work, there should be the "Rizzne" section, the hour of speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. And in fact, we think that this is one of the most serious facts of the violation of the rights of opposition, because the opposition has the right to register on this day to take a stand, to give its position to the electorate, as well as to the majority. Therefore, our political power condemns the fact that two places have already been grossly violated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine: there is no "Variance" section. And we demand that you, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, now announce the "Variance" section, and that all the Ukrainian national deputies sign up and have the opportunity to speak in it, to exchange their thoughts on the urgent issues of relevance that are in Parliament's seats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u125	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. We have a different position, but if I'm not mistaken, it's in the End Positions. Yeah. And no, good. So here's a proposition: move the Difference to the end of the day and continue a little bit of our work. We had a break, you know, I suggest we continue our work until 3:00. And then after the third one, stay on the Vizne. Okay? If anyone wants to stay, fine, I won't deny it. There is an offer to continue the session until 16. [[Noise Nodes]] The morning session should continue. Last Sunday, we did so on Friday. It wasn't, it wasn't. It was. No, you voted, you can't break it. Ivan Ivanovich, I know your principle position, you never violate the Rules. That is why there is such an offer. Is there no objection? [[Noise Nodes]] By 15, we'll keep working, we'll keep working until 15. After that, if anyone wants to stay on "Rizz." [[Noise Nodes]] Look, I'm offering the next order of business. We're continuing our session, listen carefully, until the 16th. There's a lot of pressure from colleagues on the Vulnerable. By the time we get to 15, we're talking about daytime issues, and then we're going to "Rizzle." The motive is Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u126	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, I would like to remind you, in this context of your proposal, that the Supreme Council Rules provide that the possibility of continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council, the evening meeting, is possible only during the morning. This evening's meeting is not scheduled, I'm afraid. But we understand the desire to work in the district, because whatever you decide, it will. But know that this is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u127	With all due respect, Ivan Ivanovich, we do not continue the evening session. [[Noise in Zhao]] Yes, please turn it on. We don't have an evening meeting tonight, so we can't continue it. That's why we're continuing our morning session. [[B in m in s a l in]] You can continue in the morning. May I continue? We can go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u128	Dmitri Alexanderovich, then I'll take advantage of the possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u129	Nestor Ivanovich is motivated. And let's go to the vote. I'll talk now before the vote. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u130	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, indeed, during this meeting, whether in the morning or in the evening, we can continue our work, but not more than 15 minutes after the time of completion. We have the time to work today, Friday, 2 p.m. Unfortunately, we can only continue until 14:15. You don't have to vote for that, it's up to the chairman to decide for himself. We don't have another option. If we want to accumulate further violations of the Rules, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u131	I don't think this is about breaking the Rules, about wanting to work here. I think so. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bujanski is a motive. And prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Honorable Predestination! Irina Heratschenko is saddened that we are working in violation of her rights, that we are violating Parliament’s regulations on Friday. I remind you that for five years Parliament had not worked at all every Friday, there was no one here. And now that we're working on the state, not the Vizna, it makes me sad, I'll speak Russian, Irina Heratschenko. Irina Heratschenko, work with us, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u133	Replica - Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, I would like to say that I represent the position of the political force "European Solidarity", which represents here 8 percent of the voters who have delegated us to Parliament. Our electorate requires Parliament to comply clearly with the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. The regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine clearly stipulate that from Friday 13 o’clock on Friday there is the heading “Rizzne. ” And I'm really saddened, really, by the way that Parliament's leadership and the ruling faction treats the Rules. It's really sad. So please don't mention my last name so I don't take the lines. And we ask the Head of the Supreme Council not to grieve the voters of Ukraine and give us, please, the right now to the heading "Rizzle." It should be this section of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from Friday 13 p.m. on. We have something to talk about, we have something to talk about to voters, starting with the failure of the "slaves" to make promises on the salaries of teachers and ending.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u135	Thank you. The watermelon. And let's go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no, I'm sorry, I was speaking from your faction. Shufrich. Thank you. The watermelon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear fellow workers, if you do not know how to act, do so by law. I read part four of article 19: “The plenary meeting of the Supreme Council may be resumed by the chairman of the plenary over the time set out in part three of this article for no more than 15 minutes. The possibility of continuing the evening session may be voted in the Supreme Council only on the day of the morning meeting." This is clearly stated in the Law on the Rules. So I very much ask the chairman, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we all understand that even in the areas of concern, we need to adopt laws, but when laws are passed in violation of the Rules and Procedures, they can all be accused. Please don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u137	Thank you. I really can't make it work. It is your desire or your unwillingness. I'm out of the Rules. Article 5. Article 19, paragraph 5: The Supreme Council may decide on a one-time change in the duration of the plenary. The decision to continue the plenary session after the 18th more than 15 minutes is taken at the morning plenary. It's the evening. There's no part of it in the first part. Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council may decide. The Supreme Council can decide. I don't deny it. There's an offer. First. Continue our session so it'll be "Virgin" by 16. Consideration of daytime matters — up to 15 hours. And then we're going to go to the "Variance" questions, 16 hours. I ask my colleagues to prepare for the vote. No, no breaks, no breaks. I think you are. Well, we're not tired, we're not working that hard. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? This is the Council defined, this is the proposal. You're going to support -- okay, no -- no, no. I'll bet on the vote on the above-mentioned proposal. Please. And we haven't worked with you yet, and there's another question. Please support and vote. [[13:16:28]] For 201 The decision is not taken. We're working till 2:00. Let's see the factions. For – 197 – Servant of the People – Opposition Platform – Life – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherland – 1, For the Future – 0, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 3. Dear colleagues, on the next question, about the "Victory" debate: whether it is necessary to consider the issue of the agenda. There's an offer from the National Deputies to give up the question of "Variance." Please support this position and vote on the elimination of the various issues today. Please support and vote. [[13:17:35]] For 222 The decision is not taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" - 220, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 0, "non-fractional" - 2. Wait. Now we see who wants to work, who wants to talk. Dear colleagues, I don't deny it, it will be so, so the Council has decided. For reasons like that, he's a skitter named Alexander. It's a sketch of Alexander with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u138	I would just like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine right now to the fact that it was a compromise proposal to take into account both "Variance" and to accept the necessary bills from our speaker. But unfortunately, as you can see, this proposal has faced enormous obstacles to absolutes. Of most factions, I'd say. Unfortunately, this is how all of the laws that we are proposing today are adopted. Even in that case, if it's a compromise good offer, it's locked down exclusively by other opposition factions. Unfortunately, I ask the people of Ukraine to pay attention to this, you see how some work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, now it's gonna be "Victory," all of them will be speaking. I'll give the word to Markar Oksana Sergiyevny 1 minute with motive. And then it goes, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, we are with you now. Hear? Shut up, yeah? Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I very much ask you, I understand that it is important to have a very important regulation and your schedule of work, but I am waiting today after a question, and yesterday, to consider a very important bill for European integration in the first reading. This is the Law on Prevention of Financial Monitoring. prevent corruption, prevent money laundering. I very much ask you if the hall can allow me to now consider with you and present this bill for your consideration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u141	So you're suggesting we go back to the daytime? About the agenda? Then I ask you to vote for this and continue to consider the issue of the agenda. I'll bet you a vote. Change. Dear colleagues. Not again. Ivchenko, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u142	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the speaker of the "Serve of the People." You know, yesterday we voted on a very important bill where we were able to unite. Let us say things that unite us, and you have to hear positions that speak, including opposition factions. We are talking about what is the law, and no one has to break the law, so we need to make changes to the Rules. And please, let's work until we do, excuse me, the will of the Supreme Council. So I simply advise you to make expressions that unite the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian deputies and never make accusations when you do not look in the mirror. Look, please, 55 deputies from the People's Service didn't vote, which means, please, get rid of your faction and don't blame the opposition factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u143	Procedural decisions. Dear colleagues, procedural decisions, we can come back for him. Please tell me, does the House deny the return to Law 2179? No, it's not. Therefore, we revote and return to the order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, which has been proposed. I bet. No, I understand. Dear colleagues, colleagues, are we or are we voting for the "Virgin"? No, it's not. Vacarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u144	Dear friends, we cannot, we voted against breaking the Rules. But after that, just the minister of finance made a specific request to us. And our ability is either a specific request to consider, or to go in the order of the Difference. Because we cannot go back to making the order of the day who was because we no longer voted on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u145	We can go back to procedural decisions. That's the first one. The other one. You and I can change the order of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I have a question. Are we going back to Bill 2179? Yeah. Dear colleagues, it is the proposal of the Hall to return to the consideration of the bill (registration number 2179) of the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (washing) of the proceeds obtained by criminal means, financing terrorism and financing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Are you ready to vote for this? Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. All of it. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. For getting back to the questions. Arthur Volodymyrovich, you are so many. You're going to say I'm going back to your faction. But you scream so much that you don't hear what they say. Thank you. Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on the question of the return to draft Law 2179. Please support and vote. [[13:25:42]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, show the factions to whom this matter is important. "People's Servant" – 217, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 19, "non-fractional" – 5. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this bill in a simplified manner. This is about the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization (Laundering) of Proceeds derived from Crime, the Financing of Terrorism and the Financing of the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction. Please support and vote. [[13:26:33]] For 230 Decision taken. The report is given to the Minister of Finance, Marcar’s wife, Sergiyovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u146	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Deputys, Honorable People's Deputies! Thank you very much for being able to present this bill. What this bill is about and why it's important. In fact, I think that a lot of citizens' businesses and even you who are sitting in this room have encountered a phenomenon like financial monitoring, when banks stop paying, asking too much information virtually everyone right now. Because today we have an outdated system of prevention of legalization and monitoring. This law will bring it in and implement 4 of the European Union Directive and in part 5 of the Directive. What are the main provisions of this law that we propose today to support you solely on a basis? First. The monitoring system will be risk-oriented. Instead of the 17 criteria that are now in place, which are actually dispersing the very broad test criteria, it's going to be just four. And we're also raising the threshold, and now any amount of over 150,000 dollars is being monitored. Once the law is passed, this sum will be increased to 400,000. Third. We clearly write out the notion of "beneficiary owners," and we write out what approaches are used to national PEPs called "high-risk" for foreign PEPs only. So actually, the things that have long existed in Europe, we are now implementing them here. For those who really will fall under the criteria, we increase fines for banks, and for primary monitoring subjects, this is also a European practice. But we are greatly reducing the application of this to those who do not. If you're talking about. We also automate the verification process, and this will make life easier for financial monitoring entities: banks, financial companies, which are now constantly asking you a bunch of paperwork. This will not be necessary, it will be possible to connect to all registers, and many things will be checked automatically so as not to disturb customers. Today. So this is very important because it is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u147	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u148	This is important because these conditions are binding on EU member countries, or those applying for this membership, and also for Ukraine. The committee and I have a common position on many things that we need to work on for a second reading, so we would like to approve as a basis that, if you agree, we will work quickly with the committee, and already clarified, along with the committee and our European colleagues, we will present a bill for your consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u149	Thank you. Oksana Sergiyevna, do you need to make another deal? Thank you. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! The Minister of Finance reported on the bill and its need and importance for adoption at the present stage of the development of our state. It's not just a requirement of our partners, it's a bill that we need for monitoring, to prevent the legalization of money obtained by criminal means. What does he propose? He proposes to raise the lower level of operations that are subject to mandatory financial monitoring, from 150,000 dollars to 400, to reduce the number of criteria for operations that are subject to mandatory monitoring, from 17 to 4. Thus, reduce the number of transactions monitored and, accordingly, increase the quality of this monitoring, both the quality of the monitoring itself and the responsibility for the breach. As the Minister of Finance has said, indeed, the bill gives us some warnings about the committee's decision to consider the bill. In the committee's decision, we said, first, evaluation categories that give rise to some legal uncertainty. The second is terminology. Terminology is used to harmonize with our legislation, and terminology is sometimes used. Next. These are eight subjects of government financial monitoring. We think it's too much, and they can be reduced. Then, there are changes to the Ukrainian Security Service Act, which are inappropriate to this normative act, and we've also mentioned this in our decision. And also the size of the fines. The fines are too large, and they need to be reduced. This is all reflected in the decision of the committee that you are given. And we'll take all of that into account when we're working on the second reading. Now I'm asking the Hall to settle down and support this very important one for our country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u151	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u152	Support the bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u153	Please sign up for factions: two for, two for, two for, one for, one for. Nemira Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u154	Surrender the word to Valentinu Nastavajchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u155	Valentin Alexandrovich Nastavichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u156	Valentin Nastavajchenko, faction of the Fatherland. The bill, which I propose to everyone to consider now carefully and listen to, concerns really very important, much-needed for our national security and the safety of Ukrainian citizens. The first is the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The second is the fight against financing terrorism, including international terrorism. And here's the main thing. The Fatherland faction suggests that the UN Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism be taken into account professionally and at the highest level. Since 2002, Ukraine has joined this convention. And most of all. In this international convention, all countries, and the time has come, and Ukraine, have applied regimes to prevent the financing of terrorism, to combat the financing of terrorism. But attention, through civilized practices and procedures. When the banking institutions of any country and Ukraine, including we propose, other legal entities in an operational and convenient manner, most importantly, inform the competent authorities of their State of any suspicious operations involving the purpose, design or attempt to finance any offence related to terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. And in Ukraine, that's what we have to do. Not the way that, unfortunately, remains in this bill when an international convention of Ukrainian citizens is being set up against its own citizens, not against terrorists. When they apply those positions, which, as my colleague mentioned to me, mix the authorization of the BSC and other law enforcement agencies, rather than create an effective and operational mechanism. countering terrorist financing. Then, our professional position is to consider that such changes should be made and only after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u157	Thank you. Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u158	Please pass the word to Vassilevsky-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u159	Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u160	Dear Mr. Speaker, I remember the rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine has fulfilled 11 of the 12 conditions for obtaining macroeconomic assistance from the European Union, and the only condition we have left to implement is the adoption of a new bill to combat the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained illegally. It's a so-called new law on financial monitoring. The adoption of the law will help to improve the situation of national legislation and will also ensure that the recommendations of FATF experts, IMF, Moneyveo, and the European Council Committee on Anti-Laundering Measures are implemented. I want to tell you that on the committee we had a very lively discussion of this bill, and it will be thoroughly worked out, especially in terms of the impact on the work of the BSS in the fight against terrorism, and we also want to improve the ability in the amended bill to compete for the head of financial monitoring. I can tell you that the adoption of this bill will also allow for a more effective fight against terrorism, and it is very significant that more than one faction voted in favour of this bill. I want us to be different from this faction, to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u161	Thank you. Gnatenko Valeriy Sergiyovich. Then we go to the vote. Please be prepared. The motive is Iron and Klimpush-Cincadze. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, sorry, sorry, I missed. I'm sorry. Eugene Nina Petrovna, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I hope that our colleagues in our committee of profiles have informed all the national MPs how strongly this bill has been criticised in the committee. Eight pages is the committee's decision. This is the first time that this is a committee decision. Almost every point has to be changed. Why? Oksana Sergiyevna, please, to make sure you really understand how incapable you are of accepting the draft law for the first time. It refers to the expansion of primary financial monitoring subjects and their responsibilities. And if you're speaking in the direction of the knowledge of our committee, you can understand, you can't have an accountant who keeps accounts, a consultant, any financial consultant, legal questions, take responsibility and report on the business transactions that are at risk, and so on. Why do you put people in this situation when they are already subject to fines? How will you continue to justify them, or how will these companies end up with fines imposed? Audience and consulting companies with turnover of 1 million and fines of more than 1 million, that is, huge amounts of entrepreneurial activity that will be immediately bankrupt. I'm not talking about other things. And most of all. Let us now go back to article 258 with 5 amendments to the Criminal Code regarding the definition in the article on terrorist financing. In fact, we give these definitions the right to check any goods that will be on customs duty. We did not discuss this at the committee meeting and did not make this amendment to the committee’s decision. Because it is now through the article on combating terrorist financing that the U.S.S.A. is entering and controlling customs and helping them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u163	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u164	control all the goods. I don't know how you, the committee of law enforcement, have responded to such changes? Do you see a lack of manipulation and accountability in such changes?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u165	Thank you. No, I'm sorry. We'll have a lot of different ones there. Volosin Oleg Anatoliyovich, deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, first of all, about the bill. The honourable chairman of the committee, Mr. Gethmans, has clearly and clearly outlined the obvious problems of this bill, which deserve to be returned to the developer for further work. We are firmly opposed to strengthening the impact of the Ukrainian Security Service on the economy and financial processes in our country. And that structure, in which the total failure of the sad-tempered "K" administration, which has already been turned into a tool of bribery and money-gathering in an illegal way from our business, cannot receive any further authorization! That's the principle of our position. We believe that nothing prevents developers if they are guided by really good intentions, rather than creating an additional corrupt "food", this bill is to be drafted and submitted in a dignified manner and in a dignified manner back to the Supreme Council. And now the equally important question is what we've been discussing here for almost half an hour. Dear Mr. Speaker, you are a very intelligent, educated man, and you cannot help but know that the word Parliament comes from the French word parler, meaning "to speak." The right to speak for the people's deputies is an essential and natural function, as well as the right to vote. Moreover, national MPs are not voting machines. And if we look at the list of bills that were passed through the area, including the right of deputies to discuss this issue, and the introduction of cashiers, and lobbyists, and the market for the land is now being prepared -- it's not called work, Mr. Speaker. It's called pestilence. So it's better, I think, for our state, if sometimes the MPs have more opportunity to discuss, to discuss, not just to press buttons like monkeys. So I'm asking you not to play with these words that someone wants to work, and someone wants to talk. Because we're people's deputies here, not just push-button vending machines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u167	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. I'm sorry, we spoke out. [[B in m in s a l in]] The committee will speak with more motive. Colleagues, this is how all of us are going to be speaking. Sorry, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! When representatives of the committee spoke, we listened, the law was so beautiful, we had to vote. But the devil is in detail. Why don't you say that you're going to introduce this law to a new term of asset freeze, where you're giving authority to the Council of National Security and Defence without deciding to automatically arrest the court, freeze any assets of any financial institution. Do you understand what we should vote for now? One body has made its own decision and has frozen any financial institution. If you're willing to vote for it, please. If we're breaking the laws, when we're looking at Friday, when the Rules clearly say "Variable" and we should speak, please, and we can vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u169	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u170	Colleagues, it must be symbolic that we started the week and ended with the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, because this is the most critical issue that has raised so many comments about this bill. It's actually a good initiative that predicted European norms, but unfortunately, this bill has been introduced by various means and changes to the Ukrainian Security Service, and fines, and the definition of categories, and so on. There's a committee decision, it's given to everyone. And we very much hope that the coalition's honourable representatives, like the committee, will keep their word, and all those changes, especially with regard to the Ukrainian Security Service, will be introduced into this bill and taken into account in the second reading. Only under such a condition will our faction support him as a whole. But we also hear from the finance minister that this change is important, it is integral, and it is necessary to fulfill our international obligations. That's why you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u171	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u172	Under the promise of a coalition, under the decision of the committee, which is given to everyone, and we hope. We support the first reading, and we will insist on our drafting of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u173	Thank you. Hetmans Danilo Aleksandrovich from the committee. I'll give the floor to Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues from the opposition that we don't raise the question, the betrayal is about to begin, the challenge of someone wanting to do something without even hearing what we're talking about from the rostrum. I said it in my speech, and I repeat it. Everything about the amendments to the Ukrainian Security Service Act will be removed from this law. These are not the standards of this law. Everything about fines will be reviewed with you on the committee. Everything about the uncertainty of the Financial Monitoring Service's mandate, we're going to review it and bring it to some extent. I especially repeat this for the transcript so that when you read it, you would refer to me as a good silent word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u175	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Are you insisting on the performance or not? Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna is a minute. Then Markarov Oksana Sergiyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u176	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Oksano, I understand that this bill is necessary to meet our obligations to international donors. At the same time, I would also like to call on the Ministry of Finance to work not only with the Main Committee but with the Committee of European Integration because, as you said in your statement, this project is also aimed at fulfilling our commitments to the European Union. Well, and I support all the criticism that's already been made in this room, especially if we don't get out of there the standards that apply to the BSS, it's going to be a direct breach of our obligations in terms of Euro-Atlantic integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u177	Thank you. Oksana Sergiyovna Markarov is the minister of finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, this bill, here in fine print, a huge bill, was accepted by our European partners. It's important not only for donors to get 500 million macrofin, but also for our European integration. The committee's comments that we hear, including 2.5 articles on the BSS, including some questions on authorization and on this, are a very small part, and we agree to the second reading to fully settle them, and to the second reading to submit to you a bill that you all fully agree to vote on. Therefore, a great request in the first reading is made to support it. And we're going to be doing everything in the near future, and we're going to let you know from every observation we've heard today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Under the transcript, the head of the committee said that the BSS items would be deleted between the first and the second readings. He can't do it now. The decision is taken by the committee. No, he can't. The decision is taken by the committee, not by the head of the committee personally, unfortunately, or fortunately. Sergei Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u180	Sobolje, Fatherland. Respectful colleagues do not really need to violate the Rules. We have the committee's decision, and we're in the clear with the committee's warning that it's in the decision. And then it is an obligation on the second reading to take this into account both the government representatives and the professional committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u181	Thank you. Absolutely correct, I think. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u182	Thank you. Papiev, political party "The Opposition Platform for Life." I want to remind you that we do not have such decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as to adopt the law in general, with warnings, with any other wishes. Dear colleagues, I address the Servants of the People. You know, I'm a little bit surprised that you're giving up, and the sorority is driving you into a corner and you're taking "obligations" from you that you're removing authority from the structures that are subordinated to the President of Ukraine. And you want to leave the President of Ukraine in general without prejudice to the processes that are taking place in the state, and you give full power to the state to the external financial institutions and to these grantoid organizations. Dear friends, by making some decisions and making some promises there that you are in general undermining the role of the Ukrainian Security Service, think of the President of Ukraine, as the only structure directly subordinated to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization (Laundering) of proceeds obtained by criminal means, the financing of terrorism and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (registration number 2179), taking into account the proposals made under the transcript by the head of the committee. Right? Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:51:21]] For 278 Decision taken. The law was adopted on the basis of proposals made by the committee that were heard under the transcript. Thank you very much, colleagues. Please show me the faction. "Serve of the People" – 219, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 18, "For the Future" – 6, "Voice" – 19, "non-fractional" – 16. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have heard from some political factions proposals to speak in the "Virgin". I think it'll be very good if we don't make decisions there, right? We leave the time on the Difference, and all those who want can do it within this hour. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah? Oh, the application, yes, the application. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich is three minutes' walk from three factions. Dear colleagues, a moment of attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u184	Dear colleagues! I'm authorized to speak on behalf of three factions: the Voice factions, the European Solidarity factions and the Fatherland factions. The subject of my speech is, unfortunately, unpleasant, but very important. Because from the standpoint of the deputies who form part of these three MPs, the authority of the Supreme Council as the supreme legislative, higher representative, collegiate body has been severely damaged. From our point of view, the behavior of our colleague Bogdan Jaremenko, in particular his speech yesterday, which in our view contained elements of the image at the address of the entire legislative body, and statements that can be considered as threats to journalists are unacceptable, unacceptable. Therefore, the common view of the three factions is to ask the Supreme Council about the relevance of Mr. Bogdan Yaremenk’s being in the position of such an important and sensitive committee as the International Liaison Committee. We believe that the House of Deputies, the Governing Body of the Supreme Council, will properly assess the conduct of our colleague and draw the necessary conclusions. I sincerely hope, knowing that Bogdan Volodymyrovich himself has had enough years to take the necessary and important step without waiting for his colleagues to be evaluated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u185	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Vulnerable. I'd like you to sign up for the National Deputies who wish to make their appearance within the hour of the "Rizzne." No, an hour, an hour. Alexiyyovich, yes, there are no decisions, so any decisions. No, why. Sign up for the show, yeah, we'll be listening to "Virgin" for an hour. Who has the wish, who insists, is the offer, that hour. There are no decisions, there will be no votes for it by the Supreme Council, so I'm waiting for the speakers. Please sign up. Oksana Vasilovna's owl. Turn it on, please. You have a microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I want to go to all those today who still have attention to the Miscellaneous because we've been waiting for this for a very long time, and to raise those problems that are actually very disturbing, and those problems that have happened today. Recently, three factions, and we, the majority, are joining the call for Yaremenka to form the mandate of the committee head. And the same things, I want to pay attention, happened again this week when an agrarian committee met up and didn't come back to looking at the bill issues that were standing. That is to say that today we were given conclusions before the parliamentary hearings on land reform, where 11 alternative bills were considered in 8 minutes. I want to say on behalf of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, from those agrarians who opposed that we strongly condemn such decision-making in the sessional. on the committees, and we also consider the authors of 10 alternative bills that have not been heard, without even considering our bills, that this is a gross violation of the rights of national MPs, which represent hundreds of thousands of citizens. We ask that we publish this information for the future and that no committee in such an urgent form should hold its meetings, but still have rules of publicity and publicity, whether it is a bill from the majority or the opposition. Therefore, on my part, once again, I would like to emphasize to everyone that land issues are very important to the Ukrainian society and the parliamentary hearings that are planned should take place as loudly as possible where the various parties concerned should be invited. On the other hand, we want to say that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union does not explicitly support the opening of a moratorium on land sales and considers this issue to be a matter of complete concern to society and the market for land at this stage of our country is premature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u188	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful to all of you who voted in favour of handing out money to miners yesterday. But unfortunately, I didn't have a moment and time left to ask the Ministry of Energy and Ecology again and again about miners. I want you to know that miners today depend on all sectors of our country. This is the economic drive of our nation from all times. And it's the miners and their productive work that our nation depends on. In that area today, all the mines are being submerged, if you don't know, I'll say, out of 100 percent of the drinking water sources, 22 percent of them are still available during the war. As you know, 60 to 70 percent of a person's body is made up of water. In Reuben City, 14 children were poisoned that year. That's not what they're saying. If you and I used to drink tap water when we were kids, today you can't even drink it in a well, you have to buy it in a store. What will be the cost of buying a pensioner or miners in a store today who will not receive a salary in that month, the following month? And this goes on year after year. This should be done with a dot, an audit of government coal mining mines, by providing jobs that the minister of social policy was looking for the day before yesterday, claiming that jobs should be looked for; returning miners to their hometowns and building up instead of destroying them. The second question. In the city of Lysicánsk, an emergency is now due to the condition of the water again. There are no weeks of water in the taps. Could one of you live without water for a week? No, it's not. We need to intervene immediately and restructure the Lysican Water Channel debt, allowing people to live normally in the ATO zone. Thirdly, there is no heating in the cities: Sevierodonetsk, Rubižne, Lisichansk, in the areas and villages. Winter, and as the synoptics say, is the worst winter of all 28 years. People can't pay for utilities, and there's no heat in the houses. That year, pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u189	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u190	They were cut off from their beds, cut off with meat, and then cooled off by pathologists. This year can also happen. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u191	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the Black Dmitry People's Deputy. Who? Camelchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u192	Thank you for the word. Good day to you all! I would like to say very briefly that today's situation with the changes in the Rules of Procedure in voting has created another unfortunate situation, a situation that few probably suspect. Today we were going to consider Bill 2233, and I'm going to say very briefly what happened because we didn't look at it. So first. For two weeks we delayed the opportunity for TEC not to accumulate debts and normally pass the heating season. The other one. For two weeks we allowed the power market monopolies to continue to earn hundreds of millions of dollars for an artificial deficit at higher electricity prices. And they put, the third moment, NEX Krennergo in a situation where they can do it in a timely manner, because its license ended two days ago, they can borrow $500 million in advance. It's not a joke. When people ask why electricity is expensive, I'm going to send it to those people who were very comfortable today, and the extension of the 2233 bill was practically delayed for two weeks. All good weekends and lights in the homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u193	The word is given to the national deputy of Bobrovska Solomija Anatolyevna, the political party "The Voice".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u194	I am very sorry to see that those who voted in favour of continuing their work today are not in this room at present. You know, on Monday for activists, friends, colleagues of Catherine Gandzück, it's actually a tragic date, because it's been a year since the day of death. But it's very symbolic that, literally yesterday, we found out that the OCD is still putting forward a new candidate, calling off its colleague Mamka and suggesting that Kiva join the TSC on attacks, on Catherine, and on 54 other cases. For us and for me personally, this is an extremely insidious decision and is aimed at destroying this TSC. Either you give him a job or you don't. And I'd very much like to draw the attention of the regulatory committee, I don't know if there are any other representatives left, and the head of a committee that should not hide its head in the sand, and consider as quickly as possible the matter, to consider a few real conflicts of interest that are within the work of our colleague, Kiwa and Tsk. First. Kiwa publicly called Catherine Hansuk a corrupter while she was in the hospital, I recall, with terrible chemical burns that actually slaughtered more than 60 percent of her body. That's not enough. By his decision, Catherine’s father, Mr. Victor, brought him to trial and won the trial. But for the past few months, our colleague has failed to make a judicial decision. Next. A year ago, Mr. Kiwa, who is very often mentioned here by Sergey Sternenko, threatened to kill Sergei in the presence of police investigators. According to this fact, there are already a number of court decisions, but. and the police have already begun their actual investigation. Cases involving attacks on Sternenko will also be investigated by the TSC. And we need this in principle, and the position is clear. In addition, he did not once demonstrate his prejudice toward Sergei and protect the customers and perpetrators of the attacks against him. I'll remind you, there have been three attacks on Sergei. And perhaps the best way out for anyone who comments on the attacks on Sergei would be his death. Last one. For all those who have left the "Citizen Sector," I'm going to remind you of a quote from a colleague who's sitting in the MP's corps from the OPCW: "All these activists I'm going to bury in the ground." This is a quote that was used and said. So the person involved in these persecutions cannot be part of this TSC. I ask very much once again, and I remind colleagues who will vote in favour of creating a TSC, a regulatory committee, to do everything they can to prevent this person from entering this TSC. And I'm going to be human: be human, it's not your children dying, it's not your children being acidized, it's your male and female dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u195	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Aresonkov Volodymyr Yuriovich, who is nonfractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u196	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers! I want to point out, let's say, how did the Supreme Council of Ukraine get into the normal system of work, working carefully and carefully on the bills, without accelerating how we did it from the beginning, sometimes a consideration that leads to some mistakes. But there are certain processes and themes that need to be done both quickly and more clearly. I mean, the positive changes that the country is looking for, and the societies that have been put in place in the reforms that have been started. Reform of decentralization of government. Today the minister has been giving a detailed report from the very morning, telling us that the following year we should go out on the finish line. We're about to complete the local elections in the 20th year. We have to get to the beginning of the administrative and territorial reform. We're talking about the entrenching of areas, the clear distribution of functions, the powers between administrations, the united communities, and so on. But the situation for today needs to be made clear: in November we have to adopt the entire legislative base, in December the Kabmin is going to complete the community plan, January-February we have to get ready for the local elections under this administrative reform. Drag will only lead to inefficient and cost-effective use. Today, communities are waiting for a clear answer from us, so we need to consolidate the work of both the Supreme Council and our government. Next question. This week, the Supreme Council of Educators took care of it. And I strongly advise all who care and who speak from this rostrum and in the work of their factions, political groups, to focus on education being a priority, it is our real future, the development of our country. What are you talking about today, the downgrading of the sector, the underpayment to teachers and the so-called low wages, I'm talking about the back-up for the checkbooks, class management and all that? Forget it, don't be shy. In general, the issue of social protection is the category of citizens who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. I call on the profile committee and everyone to hold meetings next week to discuss the subject. Because the Chernobyls are going to be the next ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u197	Thank you. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u198	This will be followed by a large group of our citizens who will come out and express concern and dissatisfaction. Therefore, their rights must be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u199	Thank you. The word is given to National Deputy Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The distinguished and distinguished voters, the guests, the invited ones! I would like to pay attention at this very time to the economic difficulties that are taking place in the country today. We, as an opposition party, "The Opposition Platform for Life," have called and repeatedly called attention to the fact that the country is in the economic sense moving in the wrong direction. Moreover, we are offered a completely failed and wrong economic program, an antisocial program and a pseudo-economic program. I'll explain what this is all about. We see today complex socio-economic things. First. New statistics show an increase in payroll debt, a record debt of 3.1 billion dollars. This has never been the case in the history of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. We have budget failures, that's more than 5 percent of the unsurpassed income part of Ukraine's budget. It's also an important ingredient. And we know that in December this will be reflected on the social pay and salaries of the budgeters. The third equally important point that shows the essence of the country’s economic policy is the absence of industrial policy. What do we see? We see a year-round decrease in industrial production minus 1.3 percent. It all tells us that there is no, there is no principle at all, another economic policy. The government program does not even mention industry. Consider: In an industrial country where 16.5 percent of GDP is manufactured and processed, there is no mention of industrial production. I'm not talking about financing and supporting industrial policy anymore. And to the end. Of course, the 2020 budget is the result of that economic policy and the tools that have been put into our immediate programme. And what do I want to pay attention to? That this budget is also making the socio-economic situation worse in 2020: the reduction of allocated subsidies and the amount of subsidies allocated to cover housing and utilities; the minimum fixed growth; and, more specifically, the indexation of 74 gross minimum pensions. We've calculated with colleagues that even with base period prices, comparisons for the 13th year, real population income and budget income will decrease by 14.5 percent. And I want to call on all those present in the hall today and those who may hear us. That economic policy in the country needs to be fundamentally changed. There can be no agrarian raw material model in the country when the whole world develops in an innovative model of development, when technology projects, technology enterprises are the most growing and cost-added in the country. And we're going to do exactly what we're going to do, and we're going to do it to support power in those initiatives that aren't going to worsen the socio-economic situation, they're going to do it from technological growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u201	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Deputy Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u202	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, Brodivsky, Buzeksky, Kamyanka-Buzký and Radehovsk oblasts, head of the coal industry subcommittee. A couple of previous speakers were speaking because a colleague called me hard because he legalized terrorists in himself on the Facebook page, "LNR," "DNR," claiming that it was a party that was speaking in talks with the Armed Forces. So I'm going to remind you that this co-worker is from a mining area that cares so much about coal miners, and I voted for the amendment to import electricity from the aggressor country. And so I did that we did not vote today that is so important in Law 2233, which is in the order of the day. So let me tell you. This is a problem law registered in 2233, actually canceling the power market mechanisms. Electricity producers are limited in their right to choose market segments to sell electricity. By 01.07.2023, the regulator will have the right to force electricity producers to sell electricity on the market in advance. In the current law, such restrictions were imposed only for a year at the start of the market. In fact, the non-liberal system of the old market is being restored by consolidating the regulator's right until 01.07.2023 to set price limits on competitive segments of the market, the market in advance, the internal market and the balancing market. Thus, Bill 2233 violates Ukraine's obligations under the Energy Co-operation Treaty and the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Community, on the other hand, in the energy sector reform, competition, equal rights and opportunities, non-discrimination of market participants, and the creation of conditions for integration into European electricity markets. In addition, it should be noted that in accordance with the plan of action for the synchronization of the United Energy System of Ukraine with the Energy Union of the member states of the European Union since 2022, the transition of the United Energy System of Ukraine to work in parallel with the Energy Union of the member States of the European Union and, accordingly, the integration of electricity markets should take place. So this law does not allow it. makes it impossible to combine energy with Europe’s zone. I mean, it's impossible. So that's how important the law is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u203	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask while I invite the next reporter, the very stable ones in this room, to say hello again to the children who are looking at this room. [[Applause]] Hello! Dear colleagues, I want it now. We have received statements from three national deputies: Klimpush-Cincadze, Herasimov and Veličkovic, followed by the national deputy of Hončarenko, to hand over to the national deputy of Hončarenko all the time. I'd like to invite Mr. Hotcharyenko from the north of Restoration for 12 minutes of benefit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u204	Thank you. Thank you, Sir First Vice Speaker. I'll give my time to the honourable Mrs. Nina Petrovna Jujanini, but nine minutes from my colleagues, thank you, I'll be happy to use it. Look. Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers who are watching us right now! Dear guests of the Supreme Council! We were taught how to work by a faction of the greatness of the Servant of the People. Now, please see how many national deputies are in the sessional hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, I'm asking you to look at everyone. There are a maximum of 25 national deputies, most of whom have nothing to do with the "Serial of the People" faction, most of them. I mean, from the "Serial of the People" faction, I see, well, maybe there's up to 10 people's deputies. Where? Where are all the other national deputies, dear friends? Where, 240 national deputies who told us how to work properly, how to love the Fatherland, how they will show the whole country how to work. Why aren't they working? Working hours, Fridays, all right, you can work, you can speak for people? But they're gone somewhere. You know, just so you don't make my words out loud, I want to do it, but we're being turned into a little school here, and here are the kids or the students coming to us, so let's call back together, the national MPs from the "Serve of the People" faction. So, dear friends, I'll go straight to the alphabet. Is Alexander Vasilovich there? I won't. Is there a Godfare Irina Valerievna? I won't. Ananchenko Mikhailo Olegovich is there? I won't. Andriovich Zinovy Miroslavovich is there? I won't. The whole head of the Arahami faction is there? Where's Mr. Arahama? Aah! I won't. Who's next? Is Aristov Yuriyovich there? I won't. Is Arsenic Oleg Alexiyovich there? I won't. Babak, Babi, Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u205	Hooray! There is one. Guys, let's give it up. Let's applaud, finally, we've reached that conscientious real "Serves of the People." The others disappeared somewhere. So, my dear friends, I'm drawing your attention to what and how, what is actually going on in the Supreme Council session hall. Now I'd like to pay your attention, you know, well, by the way, there's a question: where are all our colleagues that don't have them? We don't know where they are. Perhaps different thoughts are expressed here. There's this idea that we've seen that they're looking for some kind of abnormal contact, and maybe there's a day-to-day tariff down there now, and that's why the colleagues have already split up. But I would still like to move on to the real thing that concerns Ukrainian society today and what is important. What Is Important? Dear citizens of Ukraine! This week, we have some very serious failures in foreign policy. And I'm not saying that about our head of the international committee, I'm talking about serious and right things. I'm talking about "North Stream 2," which Denmark accepted these conditions and agreed to the North Stream 2 through its exclusive economic zone. This is a huge problem for Ukraine because every year Ukraine receives more than $2 billion for this transit. We understand that the gas transport system is also a security deposit for Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens. Because while this system is going around Ukraine, as long as this gas gets Europe, in the existence of this system, in its uninterrupted work, both Russia and Europe are interested, it protects our land. But unfortunately, today we see that Denmark, which had held this front for a long time, seemed to, and Denmark agreed to this project. I'm not saying that it was a very easy task for foreign policy, I'm not saying that Green could have easily solved it, it's a very difficult question. But I have a different question. What did Ukraine do to prevent this? Where is the President's official visit to Denmark? Where are the meetings with the Danish parliamentarians? Where the work with Denmark could have been done over the past six months that wouldn't have allowed it, but at least we tried whether it worked out -- I don't know, but at least we had to try, and no one tried. What were they busy with? And they've been busy rehearsing their credentials. Look at Presidential Decree No. 714, I think since October 25th. On the President.gov.ua website, dear friends, come and read. What are you going to see? President Vladimir Zelensky has established in which areas of security his personal consent is needed to appoint a person. There are clear things: the Deputy Secretary of Defense -- clearly, the Deputy Directors of the Force Department -- clearly, but there are completely incomprehensible things. The Director of the Department of General Intelligence, once again, of the Department of General Intelligence, according to the President's decree, all directors of the Departments of the General Intelligence Directorate should now agree personally with the President of Ukraine. I have a question for you: isn't this about assigning all the other relatives of your 95-quarters employees there? As an accountant from 95 Quarters, her husband was headed by one of the Departments of Intelligence. Is that where the others will head? Look at the latest news: we're told that we have a very important direction -- film, we've got a competition for the head of the State Agency for Cinematographers, who's going there? We have four candidates today, and one of them, dear friends, is an actor from the Weddings and the Servants of the People. Once again, the age of marriage at work. And I personally have some confidence in the results of this competition. The next few days we'll see it with you. Next, foreign policy. See what happens when Putin comes to Orban. And they hug, and it's okay. And we're not saying anything about that. Look at Zeman, the president of the Czech Republic, who declares Crimea Russian. Where is our President's reaction? Where is the reaction of the President of Ukraine to the words of his Czech colleague? Where? We don't see her. We don't hear anything about that? And these are extremely important, extremely sensitive issues, and this is all foreign policy, foreign policy, which is directly responsible for the President of Ukraine as well as for national security. So I want to draw your attention to the things that are actually happening when you're creating these shows endlessly with an end to the inviolability and the incomprehensible reason why, two months later, we've taken it out and they can come to everyone; with all these correspondences, threats to journalists, other things. At the same time, important things are happening in the country. The technocrat government came to us today. What did this technocrat government tell us? The potter didn't even listen to our questions, he just stood there and pretended that he wasn't here, that he just stood there with his back, talked about his personal things. What he doesn't say is that in Ukraine for the first time in five years, we cut the state budget. For the first time in five years, minus 20.5 billion dollars from the State Budget. What are the results of the technocrat government? They said they'd be honest. With an honest government, the budget was expected to grow, not fall. Do they have their own math? And when they come in today and don't tell us that industrial production in Ukraine fell in September-month, it fell in relation to September last year. We have a negative momentum in the government of technocrats. And these are the results? It's actually an absolute horror. What does our government do? And the authorities are busy with their favorite business, the persecution of opposition. We heard that we had opened a case against our colleague Sophia Fedina. It's like something she didn't say. Dear friends, I'd like to remind you that this session room and the buttons already have the "Serve of the People" faction. They said the terms would be taken. They didn't take anything from anyone. And the committee next to this blue beard, they're holding it so that it still has this committee, and nothing surprises them. That's what the whole world's about, Air Force. They don't care. And here's Sophia Fedina with her words -- oh, how interesting, because she's a opposing woman. Dear friends, this cannot last forever. We'll tell you the truth. And I'm happy to say from the Supreme Council rostrum: sign my YouTube channel Alexy Hotcharenko and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u206	Thank you, Alexeiyovich. Next, I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Jujanina. The only thing is, as long as you're going, sometimes it's a empty hall. It's not a question of the audience, it's a question of the speakers, it's a question of the audience. Please, Mrs. Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I am now calling more to the audience, to the subjects of entrepreneurial activity, and perhaps this call will have to come to you at this time, in order to do some professional analysis of what the Supreme Council has approved and what is being prepared on our committee of expertise, and on either person or every tax payer. I'd like you all to remind us now what laws have already been passed by this Supreme Council. We can talk about the fact that the rapid procedure for considering draft laws has only led to the fact that when considering the second reading, or they have been corrected, copied by more than 50 percent, or because of their impossibility to apply the deadline for their entry into force, they have been delayed for a year or more. It seems to me that you all need to understand and evaluate such rapid accepted standards. In fact, there's a lot of things we should be implementing in Ukrainian legislation, the very norms that would really help us take away all the laziness in the current legislation that is used to tax evasion. But this has to be a complex approach, and at the same time, we have to look at a lot of important norms that need to be changed to achieve results. For today, I am now referring to a number of laws that have been passed by this Supreme Council. And I want to ask you, do they allow you to develop business in Ukraine, on average, small, microbusiness? Do they make it easier for entrepreneurs to work? Are they making it easier and better for our people who are really trying to create small businesses? I'm not going to talk about the pain now, about those bills that might now be there, and more likely, in the vast majority of the laws that have been passed will be worked out. Because in such an acceptable way, they cannot work in Ukraine. I'm even talking about important laws like the authorized economic operator. Sorry, but everyone today has realized that by granting monopolistic rights to several legal persons, we certainly had the right to make it easier for ordinary business subjects to raise opportunities for the business of Ukraine. We didn't do it. Mode pro. The Joint Transit Procedure Act has been adopted. It's also in the "poor" kind of accepted and unable to work, and it won't work. And then we're going to have to take some changes in order to start a real one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u208	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sukhova Aleksandra Sergiyovich, who is non-fractional. Ah, Shahova, I'm sorry. Yeah, I got it right here. National deputy Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u209	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, I can really agree with Pottery Alexi that he's exhausted himself. All the national MPs listened attentively to the problems of our nation, not just the monotony. But really, there are important questions. Now, today, I've been on the phone with a TV channel and they're asking me how we can turn our country from all the bitter to the best? I'll say. To return monopolies to the state, all monopolies (can hear me) and electricity, and water, and gas, and oil, not to touch the earth at all, not only when war is coming, but not to touch at all. Just counting the land five times today, most of the 135 thousand bracelets are written today in papers that have been issued to humans for action. On the ground, and to do five times as much, there's going to be a million. One hundred pounds [400 kg] of grain was produced and farmers would issue 2 tons of grain. Electricity can really be Ukrainian and cheap, but it can be purchased from Russia. Gas can be obtained from us not only for ordinary people but also for businesses. Today. That's the main thing: the exit committee for the reintegration of Donbas and the occupation of Donbas was at the crossings of the continental Luhansk district. People asked for an immediate amendment to Regulation 815, which was made by Groissman, which was foolish — a passport for Ukrainian children to move to Ukraine, to that territory to their grandparents. You have to register for 2 minutes where there is no Internet at all or it's not as fast as it is in Kiev. And it's been two months. Our team demands that these standards be changed, that the Cabinet of Criminal Ministers 815 be removed and abolished, and that normal standards be established so that the farmer can carry his products to Ukrainian people without smuggling and show our gentle treatment of those who remain in that territory. They're Ukrainian! Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u210	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovitch, a faction of political power. Ah, excuse me, National Deputy Tsimbaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, those who have found the time to work in the Supreme Council! Dear Ukrainians, dear countrymen! Today, during our hour of communication with the Government, we had a topic and questions for the Minister of Development and Regional Policy, Mrs. Babak, regarding two population points: these are two cities in Ukraine, New Division and Novoyavorysk, which are still without heat. And, thank God, in the second month of her work, Minister Babak found the time and visited these inhabited places and apparently promised that there would be warmth in these populated places in people's homes. But when, we didn't get the answer. Because of this, there is great hope that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who has been to the Supreme Council today, will take personal control of the activities of the local authorities, the regional and district governments, which is very difficult to create today's professional human resources potential for the people responsible for this matter, and will first take control of the allocation of funds, the development of them and the immediate inclusion of heat in these two locations -- the New Division and Novoyavorysk. Today we discussed another important topic: decentralization and the creation of united territorial communities. And it is very sad that Mrs. Babak’s idea is that the district council and the district councils are excluded from the process of uniting the territorial communities, and everything is placed on district government administrations. Are they dedicated today to objectively reaffirming the will of people to unite? It is highly doubtful that complex programs have previously been created to unite the territorial communities, so - called forward plans, where in most offices officials, just looking at maps, have united people, not including socio-economic, political, or historical factors, to see whether one village can unite with another. So that it does not happen as it did at the time of the unification of the synagogues. Which is the central garden, and all the other villages without the silage. And another important thing. These are the united territorial communities of mountain areas, where there are great distances from the village. There can be no rules for the provision of education, preschool facilities. There can't be the same standard for treatment facilities called FAPs. As a result, we look forward to a principled professional position and are ready to join in together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u212	Thank you. I give the floor to the People's Deputy to Lubinec, Dmitry Valeriyovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u213	Lubinec Dmitry, electoral district No. 60, Donetsk district, Volnowsky, Nikolski, Mangushsky district. Dear colleagues, there are 23 of us left. I welcome you all. I want to say that there are probably people in this room who want to work, who want to hear from each other, because every Friday, at this very time, the "Variance" chapter raises issues of major constituencies, problems of the country, and those national MPs who are flooded, they want to know exactly what to do and help their voters, the people of Ukraine. I want to ask you two questions right now. The first question that concerns everyone who lives in our Ukraine. It's a question of tariffs. My friends, when the new Supreme Council, our Parliament of the Ninth Assembly, was elected, we all promised people that the first thing we would do was lower the tariffs for our people. Everyone said there were predecessors, "Rotterdam Plus." Where's Rotterdam minus? Where is the reduction in the price of electricity? Where is the price drop on gas? You know, today there's information that Naftogaz raises the price for industrial enterprises by 18 percent. In the summer, the whole of Europe received three lower payments. One nation alone is probably rich, Ukraine, no payment for the decline. So, colleagues, we need to ask the government to get it profiled, finally, to deal with tariff cuts, because this directly applies to all of our voters. And the second question is education. I haven't heard from any of the National MPs this week that I've been worried or worried about what Mrs. Minister in the field of education has said. She suggests that all rural schools be closed, where children have fewer than 50 children. I can say as a person representing the rural district. This needs to be immediately closed to about 30 percent of rural schools, for each school to buy a bus, and for the next school to build roads. It takes no less than a hundred times as much. No one's talking about it. Why don't we say that for the first time in the next year, the education subsidy for schools is shrinking. I'll give you one example. Volnowsky district, colliding line, 48 schools. The following year, he will receive 34 million dollars for education. What are we doing? That country that doesn't build a school that doesn't care.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u214	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u215	That state, which doesn't care about schools and teachers, is going to build prisons. So let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u216	Thank you. I invite National Deputy Larissa Mikolayevna Bilozer, MP for the Future. Please, Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u217	Larissa Bilozer, 15 constituency, Winnichtina, Tomaspilski, Černiewecki, Chargorodski, Tulčinski and Murovanokurilovatski, group "For the Future". Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, today is a very serious situation in areas all over Ukraine, which has to do with halting the financing of the socio-economic development of the territory itself. And it was adopted by Regulation 500 in early July, which was suspended by the Ministry of Finance in August 2019. Today, a very difficult situation has arisen in local self - government, since much of the work has already been done to repair gardens, schools, sports courses, roofing in social institutions, water stations, roads. In the Winnitsk region, for example, after this and other decisions, which have also been suspended since the beginning of the year, two other government decrees have not been implemented, and the sum of 289 million dollars has not been paid. So far, government treasury has already registered government contracts and liabilities of 76 million dollars. I'm going to the government, to the Ministry of Finance, to the budgetary commission that's looking at the cost of the socioconomy today. If there is no will and understanding, if it is not understood that these projects are necessary for villages, villages, and small towns, then at least part of the financial obligations that are registered in district governments will do the work that has already been done. Because suppliers today dismantle windows, dismantle sports courses, threaten, understand, cut heat. Today, as an example, I do not have many of these objects in my district. What I'm saying is that we have eight majors in the Winnitz region, three of them from the "Serve of the People." So that's 70 percent of the money is in their district, because it's cities, it's Winnica, it's the Bar region. And to this day, for example, I have only five objects in the district but very important. Rožnetów School in the Tomaspel district, it took off the roof during the period. July 2nd during the storm. To date, only hydrobaric work has been done, and the shell cannot be covered. They're just bowls, the water's dripping. A higher school of 150 children, 60 of them from neighboring villages, is being transported. Today, they have 13 degrees Fahrenheit [13 ° C] in their classrooms because they cut out old heating, and they set up a new boiler. The supplier refuses to set up because the equipment is not paid. So I'm asking you very much if you're not going to pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u218	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u219	Although some of the commitments are registered, where there are already debts in communities that do not have the capacity to cover, please cover the budget commission and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u220	Thank you. I invite National Deputy Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of the European Solidarity Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u221	Dear tax payers, distinguished viewers, I'd like to finish what I'm on. What I'm referring to is your weight, which I'd like to emphasize. In fact, it seems impossible in the country for our economic collapse tomorrow, but we're not quite ready for it, and it will be. Because those laws that we adopt are really necessary, but in an underworked way, and they can only make a profit in the long run in a few years' time. What we're going to do next year is unknown. No laws that all voters have promised, all the literally factions that have entered this hall, and given that the majority can adopt such laws, should be directed towards efforts to adopt laws that provide an effective tool today for taxpayers and change the tax system. What can only work in the 21st year, either the new Tax Code or the amendments to the Tax Code, will not allow the country to survive the 20th year, I want to emphasize that. And yet, if you've just watched this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, just heard that the latest law was passed, I would like to point out that the law that dealt with the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Security Service, the Combat against Terrorism, the Ratification of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Confiscation of Proceeds, the Criminal Procedures, the State Registration of Legal Persons, the Physical Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. These are all laws that don't have specialists on our committee. So when I pointed out in my statement that the changes that I'm making to the legislation that I've listed are not possible at all without the participation of the committee and the evaluation of experts, and we now rejected all these arguments and quickly voted this law out in the first reading. I would like to point out that, even when it comes to basics, changes to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, we are now obliged to do the work that the Security Service once did. On whom do we now place such a large part of our functions? Why would you do that? And we've just been told that all the changes that will be made to the Ukrainian Security Service Act will be removed and this is in the committee's decision. That's not true, there is no such statement or sentence in the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u222	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u223	I ask all experts on these days to unify themselves around making proposals with the fact that the law in the second reading is he. The law that decides.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u224	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Pavel Viktorovich Melnik, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". And that's the last performance today at the Miscellaneous.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u225	Good afternoon! Paul Melnik, south of Tokmachkina. In fact, I'm going to represent the interests of the voters of 81 districts, which consists of the Yakimovsky, Tokmakki, Mikhailovsky, Weselivski, Priazovsky and Primorski districts of the Zaporozhye region. And I want to look at the question of underfunding medical institutions. Because I am now being approached by my constituents who are concerned that the hospital in Primorsk may be closed. A recent decision by the district council of the Tokmatsk district closed down a hospital in Molochansk, so the chief physician failed to get the license in time, and the residents of Molochánsk were concerned, it's a 10-th-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousandth-thousand city, and now they're worried about how to get qualified medical care. I want to say that we now have in the next year's budget project, maybe underfunding the Zaporozhye health care facility, including for the treatment of patients with diabetes mellitus and non-sugar diabetes and chronic renal insufficiency, which causes considerable social tension among the population. I'm going to point out that now the deficit could be 18 percent, or 143 million dollars. I mean, it's a matter of concern. And the last thing I want to do is turn to my colleagues, and I want to go to our voters and all the Ukrainians and say that we don't have to conduct political speculation in the Supreme Council Hall. I want to make a roll call now. The representative of the North Feast is in the hall? Alexei Hotcharenko. None. [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to say that my colleague now told me that they're meeting with a committee, so, you know, not only do MPs work in the hall, they work hard on committees, and that's why a lot of them now work, there's meetings on the committees. So what I'm saying is let's stop any speculation. Now my colleagues from the "Serve of the People" faction are also present in the hall. And I want to say that this rostrum is no place for speculation. You should.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u226	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u227	I think it'll stop in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for this very busy plenary week. I thank all my colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-01-m0.u228	Let me finish. Thank you. And I'm afraid I don't see anyone who's been so insistent on continuing our session on the subject of "Variance." [[B in m in s a l in]] Not if I don't. If I'm not mistaken, the "Serve of the People" did not insist on the performances, and other political forces insisted. Others insisted, yes. And unfortunately, I don't see all the people's deputies, so we can pick up the transcript that they were so passionate about. We, I think they were not interested in hearing their colleagues from the faction. Thank you. I think it's a good practice, so let's keep it going. Thank you all. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed.
