ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u1	Good evening, dear colleagues. Please take your seats, prepare for registration. I'm reminding you that registration takes place by clicking on the pros button. The same will be true of your salary. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[16:04:25]] There are 296 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 193, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 21, "The Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 10, "The Voice" – 17, "the Non-Flocks" – 15. Thank you. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I wanted to say hello again. If we believe in the media, and I believe in the media, we have another case of buttoning in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, fourth. We're not going to get names. I think there's a reference to the regulatory committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u2	Friends, I'm going to use tradition to refer to the regulatory committee to study this issue and to give a legal assessment, Sergey Vitaliyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u3	But, dear fellows, I'm pointing out to you that this is a phenomenon that would probably have to be left behind in past vocations, and that there would be no such cases in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you very much. Similarly, I would like to hear what Ruslan Alexiyovich says to thank the media, the public organizations that are watching over the work of the Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[16:06:44]] For – 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u4	Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, regulatory committee at its meeting on 5 November considered the application of National Deputy Irina Stepanovna Lucenko, and the committee decided to submit to the National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Regulatory Committee for Parliament's consideration a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanovna and to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a whole. We also ask you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u5	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think this question needs to be discussed, I propose that I give my word to Irina Stepanovny and then I go to the vote. Please do not disperse the national deputies of Ukraine. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Of course, I'm worried because this will be my last talk from this rostrum. Ten years in politics is much or little? It's a lot if you live and work during a period of change if you're touched by these changes. Fighting and opposition to the Yanukovic regime, the Dignity Revolution, the war with the Russian Federation, volunteering and working in parliament is short for my ten years in politics. I have always viewed the MP's mandate as a great responsibility and an opportunity to join in protecting and building our Ukraine. The formation of an army, the formation of the Ukrainian Meat Church, the Association Agreement, the visa-free regime during the war that Europe gave us, opening the door to its spaces. The reforms that have begun, over 160 reforms that have been initiated over the last five years. The constitutional changes that have enabled us to establish in the Constitution and to confirm our European identity, our aspirations and the course towards the European Union and NATO as the most secure union for Ukraine. All of this was done by a great team of thinkers: the European Solidarity Team, the People's Front Team, many national deputies of the previous call, a team led by the fifth President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. I am grateful to our team, I am proud to be a member of this great team of professionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u7	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u8	statesmen, fighters, volunteers, soldiers, law-makers who have been building Ukraine for many years, because many of these people who are in the hall today have been in politics for many years, experienced and literate experts. I have always considered my personal mission in Parliament and have seen it as the protection of children and Ukrainian families, the fight against domestic violence, the protection of human rights. For the first time in Ukrainian legislation, the concept of domestic violence was recognized as a criminal offence, and for the first time, parents who had forgotten their own children paid $8 billion in alimony for these two years. The interfractional unification of "No Strange Children" that I have created has brought together dozens of people's deputies with one goal: to create conditions for the child's safe and comprehensive development. Together, we were able to pass many important laws. My first priority as a national deputy was also to protect Ukraine's state sovereignty, and for the first time, access to the aggressor country's election was banned, and for the first time, the illegal crossing of Ukraine's state border was criminalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u9	Irina Stepanovna, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u10	For the first time in the Constitution of Ukraine is a fixed course for European integration, our desire to gain full membership of the European Union and NATO. These are just individual strokes of my activity. Thank you to all colleagues from previous vocations who have worked with us both in opposition and in power. Thanks to today's majority, it was an unusual and interesting experience for me, as Andrew Parubai said, "it was fun." But when I finish my speech, I want to tell three people, three politicians, who played a huge role in making me a politician. I can't help but say to Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko, who in 2012 when in 2010 my husband's regime put Yanukovich behind bars, said very firmly, taking my hand, "Don't be afraid!" I would like to say the great words of gratitude and respect for the fifth President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko, a great statesman, a big lettered man who, in his five years, was able to do exactly the same: he was able to save Ukraine. Under his leadership, a Ukrainian army has been formed, which has entered the ten finest European armies of today. With his titanic efforts, he returned to the Ukrainian people his desire to have his Ukrainian local church. He created a European and international coalition of Ukrainian defenders, held back sanctions and allowed Ukraine to get dressed and reform. I am proud to have been a representative of President Dustenk for the last two years of my last cadence. Peter Alexiyovich, thank you so much! I learned to work with you 24 hours a day. I respect and I'm proud.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u11	Thank you. Irina Stepanovna, I'm sorry, we've been six minutes. I'm sorry, 10 seconds with all due respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u12	And the third words of gratitude to my husband, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, a great fighter, a man with a big letter who was never afraid, never gave up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u13	Thank you. It's a motive. Wait. Bujanski, for reasons, then Heratchenko, and let's go to the vote. No, one from the faction and we go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. We will be voting in two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear colleague Irina Stepanovna, allow our team of European Solidarity, from the team of Peter Prashenko, from our women's battalion, as we call our specialty, to thank you for your professionalism, your command and to be together in the unforgivable trials of politics and opposition, and your authority. In fact, Irina Lucenko came to Parliament in 2012, one of the most interesting and difficult calls. And we were giving advice on how to be together in opposition to the Yanukovic regime. But our brightest memories are, of course, thousands wrapped together, miles of Donbas, 2014, where we have been repeatedly shot, but never feared, and knew that behind us is a country, we have to be bold, professional and courageous. You know, you can be a person with a short cut, but you can be a politician without a mandate, but you can be a politician. Irina, you stay a politician, and we're happy you're on our team. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u15	Buzanski Maksim Arkadyovich is a motive. Let's go to the vote. Please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, this is sad news: losing Irina Lucenko in Parliament, I understand. But. [[B in m in s a l in]] But, but there's one "but." Natalie Boyko followed her like that. To be replaced by Vladimir Vjatrović, this Natala Boyko withdrew her candidacy and suddenly became our Prime Minister’s adviser. Tell me, is this what you promised your electorate that you would take Mrs. Lucenko to the Prime Minister to see the Council? I urge you not to support the vote in favour of Mrs. Irina's resignation from all of you. [[B in m in s a l in]] May our Prime Minister remember who delegated him to power and what we promised our electorate. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u17	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, look, there's politics here, but if a person says he can't do his job, then it's up to him to make decisions, and whoever's going through those lists, well, that's a different question. This is a decision that some parties have made when they have taken or have not taken to political benches and lists. But I think that, well, it's not going to be entirely correct in terms of the people's deputies there, it's going to be different in this life, it's going to force someone to work in the Council. So I'm voting on the proposal for. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Can you sit down? Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please accept, I propose a full draft of the Ordinance on the Cessation of the National Deputy of Ukraine Lucenko Irina Stepanowna (Registration No. 2395). Please support and vote. [[16:18:54]] For – 275 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. I can't hear you. By factions, please show: "Serve of the People" - 185, "Resistance Platform" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 24, "Fathership" - 15, "For the Future" - 20, "Voice" - 19, "non-factional" - 12. Decision taken. The next question is the draft Law on the Extraction of Burst and Benchmarks, which is economically inconvenient for industrial development (Registration No. 2348). Please don't split up. Dear colleagues, we need to vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day plenary session. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:20:15]] For – 281 Decision taken. I propose to apply the ad hoc procedure to the decision-making process at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[16:20:41]] For – 259 Decision taken. And I would like to consider this bill as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:21:03]] For – 248 Decision taken. The report is given to Ukrainian national deputy Kostuk Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u18	Dmitry Kostuk, Žitomirščina, "Serve of the People" faction. Legalization will allow amber to be mined in a civilized way, give people jobs, decent pay and peaceful sleep, and give the state millions in tax returns. The adoption of the law will reduce the criminal situation in the fields of Zitomirsk, Ravensk, and Volinsk and will help reduce illegal amber production. However, after getting acquainted with the Kabmin bill that we voted for the break, did I have any doubts as to whether he was actually legalizing it? The government bill states that the initial price for sale at auction of a special permit for geological study of amber nadr is 200 untaxed minimum citizens’ income per hectare of the corresponding area of amber nadr. This is an inconceivable sum for those Ukrainians in the depressive fields who are now harvesting amber at risk of their lives and health. My bill, registered under number 2348, provides for a simplified licensing system that allows amber to be mined, special use permits can be obtained both by institutions, businesses, organizations and by individual citizens of Ukraine. On the other hand, the government bill, voted by us, stipulates that illegal amber mining, as well as trade, acquisition, storage, transfer, transfer, transfer, processing of amber are punishable by fines of up to 10,000 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes or by restrictions of will for a term of 3 to 6 years with confiscation of property. That way we can't solve the problem. The black market will not disappear. Fearing landings and having no real opportunity to earn money, people will not stop digging amber by offering bribes. And whoever takes the bribe will be found. I'm convinced that first we need to make even rules for all, allow citizens to work legally, and then impose penalties for violating these rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u19	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u20	Since we have already voted in favour of the Cabinet Bill, I do not insist on voting on my project and ask the committee of profile to finalize the adopted bill No. 2240, taking into account my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u21	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environment by Bondarenko Oleg Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy, environmental management, have considered a bill on the production of amber cheese and those useful fossils, which are economically unfavourable to develop by industrial methods submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Kostuk. But despite the socially important purpose of this bill, this bill does not conform to the principle of systemicity of social relations, particularly it has to comply with other legislation, primarily with the Ukrainian Code of Nadra. And what we're talking about is that the legislation on amber-heart mining and those useful fossils that are economically inconvenient to industrial methods actually remains outside the scope of the code, creating a separate regulation. Inadequacies relate to the most important provisions of the Code of Nadra, such as the issuance of special permits for the use of nadras, the rights and duties of drug users, the responsibility for violations of Nadra legislation, and the definition of terms. The Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection does not support this bill. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council does not support its adoption. The committee agreed with this conclusion and the committee proposes to reject the bill submitted by National MP Kostuk Dmitr. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two against, from factions. Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u24	Labunski. Please pass the word to the Labunsky Angel Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u25	Labunsky Angela Victorian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u26	Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. We've been looking at this bill on the committee. And I want to tell you that there are reasonable suggestions. In order for the MPs to understand that this is actually a chapter on "Old Age Activity." And we've decided that this bill is going to be part of the government bill 2240, and it's just going to enter as a chapter on custody. In fact, this bill raises the right questions, because I told your majority on the committee too, that you can't stop people from going to the forest, that for many people this activity is actually a question of existence. And we told you that kids don't go to school, but unfortunately, they go to the woods. That's why this bill has to be rejected, but it's going to be part of the bill. I would like to emphasize once again that unfortunately, in these bills you are cleaning up any, any, I emphasize, the influence of local communities, of local self-government. I do hope, however, that in developing the second reading, you will listen to both our faction and to the major MPs from Volina, which is also the problem. Fatherland will vote in the first. Will support the deviation, and we will work on this bill to become a part of essentially labor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u27	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u28	Please give the word to Mr. Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u29	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, well, by supporting some of the initiatives of journalist investigator Dmitry Kostuk, we still support the committee's decision, because this bill, 2348, is essentially an alternative to 22,40, because it's the same thing that we adopted in the first reading. And we can really take into account the rules of this bill when we work on that bill, because the rules on amber mining have to be established by the Nadra Code and comply with it. Unfortunately, this bill does not comply with the code in the issue of special licenses, rights, and duties of users. This is contrary to article 3 of the Nadra Code, according to which mining relations in Ukraine are governed by the Constitution and the Environmental Protection Act, and the Code, and other acts, according to them. The drilling procedure should be in line with legislation on the protection of soil resources and many others. And to do that, you have to make changes to both the Earth Code and the Forest Codex and the same Codex on Nadra. Thus, the faction of European Solidarity will be supported during the vote, essentially in support of the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u31	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u32	Dear Mr. Head! I would like to say in support and previous speakers that we have actually voted 22,240 -- this is about amber -- in the first reading. And those suggestions, some of them are correct, from 2348, we suggest that we take them into account when preparing document 2240 for second reading and remove these positive standards from here. Yet it's on one side. On the other hand, regarding Law 2348 itself. I'd like to point out that there are risks of creating black-washing playgrounds and actually black-grassing amber. And then these diagrams will continue not to stay, but to deepen. And the situation in this direction will also only get worse. And, of course, I can't help but notice, and I said this during the presentation of Bill 2240 on environmental protection, it's a matter of land reclamation and a lot of other things. In addition to economic values, we have to turn here on environmental issues. Because the Polish regions of Ukraine are now developing a very complex ecological situation related to the issue of amber production. So we're going to be supporting the initiative of the profiling committee to reject this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u33	Thank you. Rudik Kira Aleksandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u34	I give the word to Solomia Bobrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u35	Samantha Anatolyevna Bobrowska
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u36	Thank you very much. It's very strange that this bill went into the hall at all. Because it was your colleagues, most of the time, that a draft decree was registered yesterday for the rejection of the draft Burst Orphan Extraction Act, so it's strange that we didn't go through the previous dialogue and this bill that absolutely could. Part of which could have been rationally laid into the body of bill 2240 could have avoided today half an hour of this discussion. But when I go to the author of the bill, I have one question in any order: which useful fossils, apart from amber cheese, can be discussed in this bill? That's the first one. And who determines which economically unfavourable or convenient fossils are to be developed by industrial methods? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose we proceed to the vote. I'm asking you to take your seats. The committee recommends that the bill be rejected. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to reject the draft Law on the Extraction of Burst and Beneficiary Fossils, which are economically inconvenient to develop industrial methods (registration No. 2348). Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:32:23]] For – 350 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, we're going to go to the second reading, there's almost no right or there's not much right. One announcement. According to article 147 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, I report that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the compatibility of the bill (registration number 1013) on the amendment to the Constitution on the abolition of the legal monopoly to the requirements of article 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to part nine of article 147 of the Rules, the Constitutional Court’s stated conclusion was handed down to you today. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to consider the conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and to prepare this bill for consideration at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. These are bills that are discussed in the second reading. There's almost no right, please don't break up. You are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Finance for Road Economy (Registration No. 1041). The word is given to the head of the Committee on Transport and Infrastructure of the Skyczko Alejandro Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u38	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The Committee on Transport and Infrastructure was prepared in a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for the Ukrainian Road Economy (for the implementation of medium-term development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use) (registration number 1041) (worked) from 06.09.2019. The bill was defined by the President as urgent and was adopted in the first reading on September 12, 2019. The initiative is aimed at launching a medium-term state-of-the-art target programme for construction, reconstruction, capital and medium-term repair of public and local road traffic. This is due to the fact that the road fund, which directly finances the State’s target programme, is formed from excises that come to the road fund in mid - year. The construction season is coming to an end in the fall, as we understand it does not allow capital work to be done on road repairs. Therefore, it is proposed to plan medium-term roadside work in a three-year period, according to the State’s targeted economic development programme, which is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill also allows district government administrations to direct subsidies received from the State budget, including project education, technical supervision and so on, without which it is impossible to start construction. A novelty is the bill, which provides for the right to direct the local budget's costs in the event of savings in such funds allocated for the repair of local roads, to repair public roads if there is no funding and if necessary. In preparing the bill for second reading by the Ukrainian National Deputies, there were six proposals that were made to the established comparative table and considered by the committee at its meeting. Of these, two were partially taken into account, and four were rejected. When a bill is fully discussed at a committee meeting, proposals are included in the table. In the light of the committee’s presentation, he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 1041 (worked) on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u39	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Only four adjustments. Amendment number two, Ponomarov. Is he insisting? Don't insist. No. 3, Dubnevich. Don't insist. No. 4, Dubnevich. Don't insist. No. 6, Bigwig. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for the bill, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Road Finance Sources for Ukraine (for the implementation of medium-term development planning and maintenance of road routes for general use, registration number 1041). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:37:46]] For – 368 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintenance of Road Traffic (Registration No. 1064). The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on budget, Kubbit Yuri Mihajlovich. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u40	Dear Dmitri Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The Committee on Budget Questions prepared draft Law 1064 for consideration in the second reading. In the Rules, there were 25 proposals for the bill, which resulted in the committee's consideration of 3 proposals and rejected - 22. In doing so, we need to pay attention to this. Taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority, the first reading of the text includes the 5th and 19th proposals for the restoration of the original edition of part five of article 24.2 and part three of article 103. 1 Budget Code. The 6th to 11th proposals and the 20th to 25th proposals for commission formation were rejected as having lost relevance in the absence of a subject-matter regulation. The proposals from the 12th to the 17th relate to the issue of making budgetary commitments that are regulated by valid legislation and do not require further regulation and are therefore rejected. As a result, it is suggested that such a decision be adopted. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 1064 to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law taking into account supported proposals in the final edition, as set out in a comparative table prepared by the committee to the bill. Please support the committee's decision, Your Honor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u41	Thank you. Let us turn to a review of rights that have not been taken into account by the committee. Amendment number 2, Kubrakov. Don't insist. Edit 3, Krulko. Are you insisting? Thank you. No. 4, Lopushanski. Don't insist. No. 6, Negulewski. Don't insist. 7, Murdy. 8, Tishchenko. Nine, Korivchenkov. Ten, Bondarenko. Dear colleagues, please invite the National MPs, because I feel like we're going to get to the vote fast for this bill. 12, Kubrakov. 13, Kubrakov. 14, Kubrakov. Kubrakov doesn't insist, do you, on my work, I understand? 20th, Negulewski. Murdy doesn't insist. Tischenko does not insist on her work. Bondarev. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've been through every step of the way, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on Medium-term Development Planning and Maintaining Roadways of General Use (Registration No. 1064). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:41:50]] For – 334 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 234, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 19, "Voice – 17, "non-fractional" – 23. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the liability for the falsification of medical devices or the circulation of counterfeit medical devices (registration No. 1152-1). The report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the law enforcement of Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u42	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! I would like to support you in your second reading and in general as a bill of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Responsibility for Counterfeiting Medical Devices or the Circumvention of Counterfeit Medical Devices at Registration Number 1152-1, prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council on October 17, 2019. The project proposes to amend article 321 with the symbol 1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in order to establish additional qualified signs of increased liability for falsification of medical devices or the circulation of falsified medical devices. A total of 27 proposals came to the bill, of which 10, the committee proposes to count, 5 included in part, 12 rejected. During the drafting of the bills, the second and third parts of article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine were reviewed. The founder of ancient Greek philosophy Socrates said that health is not everything, but everything without health is nothing. That is why it is your responsibility to protect our nation properly from counterfeit drugs. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill under registration number 1152-1 on second reading and generally as a law. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u43	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Let us turn to a review of rights that have not been taken into account by the committee. Amendment number four, Cymbaluk. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u44	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. When it comes to the position of an official, we feel that it would be logical to point out that both a medical and a pharmaceutical worker is also using his or her status. But given that the second-reading bill is really well worked out, we believe that it can be adopted as a whole as a bill. And the faction will vote yes. I ask you not to put your amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u45	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Edit 6, Stefanchuk. Don't insist. Edit 7, Ustinova. Don't insist. Edit No. 11, Cosemiakin. 12, Mama. 13, Krulko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u46	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, with my amendment, I propose that we rule out such a hallmark as the practice of a medical or pharmaceutical worker. Such individuals are characterized by certain professional responsibilities. However, such a sign of a special subject of crime, such as his profession or profession, should be determined to be burdensome only if the latter makes it possible or facilitates the commission of an appropriate criminal offence. However, a sign that characterizes a solely guilty person — his profession — has no direct connection with the wrongdoing and therefore cannot be recognized as a qualifying sign. In this regard, I propose that my amendment be supported and removed, in accordance with the bill, a sign such as that of a medical or pharmaceutical worker as a qualifying sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u47	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u48	The committee proposes to reject this amendment, because we bring our national legislation, including the Criminal Code of Ukraine, into line with the Medikraim Convention, which lists the qualifications, in particular the "pharmaceutical worker". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u49	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I can't hear you. I'm betting on the vote number 13 of People's Deputy Krulka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:46:52]] For – 60 The decision is not taken. Amendment 14, Vasilevska-Smagluk. Don't insist. 15th, Batenko. Please turn on Taras Ivanovich's microphone. You don't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u50	We should pay attention to those adjustments, friends who can do irreparable harm to the health of our citizens. Therefore, we believe that specialization in part two of article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is necessary, such as procurement at the expense of state-owned local budget funds, as the purchase of state-owned funds and local budgets is highly necessary, since it can have an unreasonable cost of public funds and can cause irreparable damage to the health of the population, our population. So I ask that this amendment be put to the vote. Amendment number 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u51	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u52	The Committee proposes to reject this amendment in view of the fact that the proposal is covered by other crimes covered by the Criminal Code, such as articles 210, 364 and 367. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 15 of the Batenka People's Deputies. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[16:48:26]] For – 72 The decision is not taken. No. 17, Pasic. Don't insist. Edit 23, Krulko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, listen carefully to what this amendment is about. In fact, the bill introduces a non-alternative sanction in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty. At the same time, a number of criminal codes and the Criminal Procedural Code provide, in particular part two of article 65, for an alternative type of punishment to be imposed. There are various circumstances that burden or mitigate criminal punishment, so no article in a particular section of the Criminal Code contains an unalterable sanction, especially in the form of permanent deprivation of liberty, since this is not in line with the public knowledge of the doctrine of criminal law. So please consider my amendment, and in addition to the permanent deprivation of liberty, there must be another sanction, because these are the rules of the Criminal Code and the universal rules of criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee will be now, and then we move to the right, because, I understand, Stefanchuk is not insisting on his rights. And Ustinov did the same thing, didn't he? Don't insist. Thank you. So now the position of the committee and we're going to go to the vote for the law. I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u56	Dear colleague, I'd like to tell you that your application is dismissed, but what you're bringing to the hall about the alternative sanctions is counted. Both part two and part three already contain an alternative sanction, which provides for appropriate terms of "freedom" or "deprival of liberty". Therefore, there are no non-alternative sanctions in the final text prepared for the second reading. You just have an offer to rule out, and you can't rule out. If your proposal contained specific terms, then we'd count it, and since you predicted the possibility of exclusion, then we're rejecting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the liability for the falsification of medical devices or the circulation of falsified medical devices (registration No. 1152-1). Please prepare for the vote. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:51:31]] For – 363 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, the next law, there's almost no right here, one or no right at all. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service (Registration No. 2161). Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, Jácik Yulia Grigorovna. Julia Gregory, I very much ask you to invest in the timing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, Your Honor, your point is to consider a draft bill prepared by the committee for the second reading of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which improves the activities of the State Border Service. In particular, the bill included five amendments, which were taken into account in whole or in part by the committee, and one amendment was rejected. In particular, the concept of the bill did not change during the process. The name of the State Border Service was given in line with that. And so, dear colleagues, I ask your opinion on the table that we have proposed to confirm the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u59	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Dear colleagues, there was only one amendment that had not been taken into account. Amendment number 3, Tsimbaluk Mikhailo Mikhailovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u60	Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, distinguished colleagues. The "Fatherland" faction did not vote in the first reading, but abstained in favour of the bill. And our position and Andrew Kozemyakin is that it is time to prepare a new version of the Operational Search Act. In our opinion today, the State Border Service has sufficient capacity to carry out search-and-research measures and this additional law is unnecessary. We will abstain from voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u61	Thank you. Out of motive. Nikiforenko Volodymyr Stepanovich, the first deputy head of the State Border Service. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! With the aim of timely detection of challenges and threats to national security at the state border and effective opposition, it was necessary to fill the gaps in the law. To date, only operational units, service administrations and its territorial bodies are active in the search and search. It is necessary to authorize the search and identification of actual data on the illegal actions of individuals and groups at the border of the State border authorities. These gaps significantly worsen the ability of the service to respond adequately to the criminogenic environment at the border, to detect latent mechanisms. Please support Bill 2161. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u63	Thank you. Zabrodsky's motive. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, I ask you to uphold the law. And our faction will definitely support it. In two words, the law unties the hands of the State’s Foreign Service in order to actually secure its activities. The main thing is to fight those who do not conscientiously carry out their ministry. Thank you, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the draft law, and I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service (Registration No. 2161). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:56:21]] For – 318 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 237, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 2, "European Solidarity" – 23, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 20, "Voice" – 18, "non-fractional" – 18. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for the harmonization of legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) (Registration No. 0953). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Humanity Information Policy, Suško Paul Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u66	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! To date, the real step that brings Ukraine closer to the European Union is to adapt domestic legislation to the requirements of the EU as part of the implementation of Ukraine's Euro-Integration Vector. One such step is the adoption of Bill No. 0953 (to harmonise legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law) which will stimulate fair competition and contribute indirectly to enhancing the effectiveness of the national consumer protection system. The project’s proposed goal corresponds to the overall orientation of modern public policy in this area and to the needs of the advertising market. Long - term and professional work on the development of the project is worthy of its approval. This has been done by both parliamentarians and representatives of the advertising and media industry. I would like to point out that the adoption of these rules will encourage the development of fair competition, the strengthening of the protection of the economic interests of consumers, who will be able to obtain full and objective information about goods and services. A preliminary consideration of the bill was held by our committee at a meeting on October 16, 2019. The suggestions and amendments made, the requests of the public, and the work of the last-call and second-reading working group were unanimously supported by the members of our committee. Prepared by the Committee for second reading, the bill is being drafted by the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without notice and recommended by Parliament on second reading and generally as a law. In accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on second reading, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the harmonization of legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law (registration number 0953) of 29 August 2019, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u67	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to look at the rights, and there's not a lot of them here, and we're going to ask them not to break up. That's right, they're all accounted for. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on harmonisation of legislation in the field of comparative advertising with European Union law (Registration No. 0953). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:00:14]] For – 326 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future – 20", "Voice – 16, "non-fractional - 20". The decision is made, I repeat. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Decree. Andrew Ivanovich, I'm sorry. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on "Building an Effective Intellectual Property Protection System in Ukraine" on 16 December 2019 (Registration No. 2416). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:01:16]] For – 291 Decision taken. The report is given by Podlasi Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee. And, colleagues, maybe after that we'll go to the vote, there's nothing to discuss. We'll discuss when there's parliamentary hearings, I think it'll be more correct. Rocksolana Andriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, you are well aware that in the European Union, which is based on intellectual property, employment accounts for over a quarter of the working population, about 38 percent of GDP, and about 90 percent of exports of all products. I've said many times from this rostrum that the growth of the Ukrainian economy is not possible without the modernization of production and the production of internal innovations within the country. That's why we supported laws on intellectual property, such as the protection of geographical names and the protection of the design of semiconductor products. That's why in the committee today we're considering bills for the creation of a national intellectual property body based on "The Crimson" and we're initiating a reform of patent legislation. But there are still a number of very controversial issues, such as how we will apply the principle of exhaustion of rights to use a trade mark in Ukraine. Most of the developed economies in the world have answered that question. We also need to find the answer to the question why our legislation does not contain the so-called "bolar position", according to which companies are allowed to apply for a state registration of a generic medical device before the end of the period of validity of a patent for a medical research tool and many others. That is why the Committee on Economic Development initiates parliamentary hearings on "Building an effective system of intellectual property protection in Ukraine" and wants to involve experts, scientists, businesses and government representatives in the national debate. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba is motivated. And we're going to the vote if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u70	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we all know that the protection of intellectual property rights in Ukraine during global processes is very important and, on the other hand, it is very problematic. That is what Ukraine needs. and was excluded from the trade preferences of the United States. We have managed to return to a certain stage of reform, where I owe a lot to people who are now national deputies. Bill 2255 is now registered in the Supreme Council. This bill could be the beginning of a complex reform of the sector. And then the European Solidarity political party will support the December 16 hearings, and this will be the start of the great intellectual property protection system supported by Ron Marchant, head of the most interesting intellectual center in the UK. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u71	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's proceed to the vote, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. The offer, I'm sorry. I am voting on the proposal for adoption of the entire draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on "Building an Effective Intellectual Property Protection System in Ukraine" on 16 December 2019 (Registration No. 2416). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:05:38]] For – 354 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, I have a question. The next issue is Bill 2164. The committee asked not to consider it today. Should we vote, or can we just move on? Let's move on. Thank you. The next bill you have been proposed is a draft law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (for the protection of workers' rights to personal and family life) (registration number 1148). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:06:33]] For – 263 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u72	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. This project is designed to improve and promote the international level of professional relations between workers and employers. The project amends the Ukrainian Labour Code and complements information that is prohibited from requiring employers to work. Such a need is associated with a number of situations where an employer examines not only the professional knowledge of an employee but also his personal life, and he makes a decision on the basis of which to hire a person. For example, a person comes to work and is asked when he plans to register marriage and give birth to a child, about his health, about his religion. All these questions have no meaning for normal, professional, work relationships. How does discrimination against women or psychological violence against human beings in their view contribute to the development of a modern democratic state? In the entire civilized world, there is a norm that prohibits interference with a worker’s personal life. For example, the European Court of Justice has long defended pregnant women and has established that if a woman has an unfavorable attitude because of her pregnancy, it is discrimination on the basis of sex. Colleagues, the project will help to overcome discrimination, bulling, and conflict. The main scientific and expert office recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis. The committee doesn't want to accept the project as a basis, because it doesn't cover all the existing manifestations of mobing and charasment. Dear colleagues, this bill has already decided on them at the stage of employment. I point out to you that it is forbidden to question a person's political views by law and not by religion, by personal life. If you know about other forms of discrimination, do not hesitate to submit a bill that will solve another part of these problems. So at the moment, I ask you to support and adopt Bill 1148 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u73	Thank you, Dmitri Juryovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u74	Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Ukrainian People! At its meeting on October 16, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered the bill. The main flaw in the committee's meeting was identified by the representative of the Human Rights Council of Ukraine, and it was noted that the individual provisions of the bill did not meet the requirements of the Data Protection Act of Ukraine, and the individual formulations were invalid and contradictory. Making such changes that do not meet the principle of legal certainty endangers the right to privacy and the protection of personal data and its illicit processing. Also during the session, it was noted that the bill had some terminology and logical disagreements. The Committee points out that Ukrainian labour legislation should evolve towards a proper level of balance between the insurmountable observance of workers' rights, including the secret of personal life on the one hand, and the creation of a wide range of opportunities for employers to select the best professional personnel on the other hand. In view of the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please be a little quieter in the hall. Well, it's very noisy! Colleagues. Dmitry Juryovich, your bill is under review, and you are so conversing! Thank you. Dear colleagues, please tell me if it is necessary to discuss what is going on. Then I'd like you to sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in factions in factions. Bondarev Constantine Anatoliyovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u76	Tsimbaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u77	Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u78	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, Colleagues! In fact, Bill 1148 and the author envisages amendments to the labour laws to protect the worker’s rights to personal and family life. We were at a committee meeting trying to find an opportunity to support and protect the rights of those who are employed. But as a result of the committee’s consideration, we came to the conclusion that the law appears first and foremost to be completely unrealistic and that its implementation has certain doubts. In fact, the project offers "naked" guarantees to the person employed and does not provide for a practical mechanism of protection. What if the employer requires that data and the person refuses to do so? That is, we believe that the bill and the basis laid down in the Parliamentary Assembly resolution 1165 of the Council of Europe are essential, but this initiative needs to be further developed so that the future bill does not lose the fundamental protection of the rights of those who are employed, but was real and envisaged a mechanism for drawing on the responsibility of those employers who do not exercise or violate fundamental human rights. The Fatherland faction supports the committee's position on the return of the bill to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u79	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u80	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! Noting that this is an important bill concerning the protection of Ukrainian citizens from interference in their personal lives and family life, I would like to point out the following. Again, we are amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine. It's a bill, a law that was passed back in Soviet times, and somehow we don't have a comprehensive document of the Ukrainian Labour Code. Furthermore, I would like to point out that this bill requires substantial revision to the second reading, because not all the circumstances relating to the personal immaterial, property relations between marriages, parents, children, are regulated by the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, they are primarily governed by the Civil Code. And that's why it's necessary, when you write bills, it's again I'm talking to the authors, sometimes you're talking to people who are aware of these issues, so that, if you do, a whole law that simultaneously takes into account all of the legislative fields and the features of the codes, the Civil Code, the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work. Our faction of the Opposition Platform for Life will vote in the first reading. Because we are in favour of protecting the rights of our citizens, especially working citizens, we are opposed to interfering with their lives by violating the Ukrainian Personal Data Act. And that's why we vote yes and we ask for support. And we have a second reading note. Look, the authors, the authors of this bill, we're going to tell you what to do and how to write it, so it's a normal law, and you're not ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u81	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, a minute of motive. Then we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u82	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, surely we must protect the people who led us to this hall today. I want to tell everyone that not only do we need to vote for this law today and support it, but we need to point out that there are 45 miners in the Lugansk region in the Mountain Mine today who don't get paid. Mothers and children who today are unable to feed their children have come out. Who will be responsible for not carrying out the criminal conduct registered by Sergey the Great from the city of Reuben, his district, and the Mountain? And who will pay attention to who will be punished for today’s less - than - than - than - 70,000 - family miners not getting the money they deserve, working a thousand meters in the ground? We've already voted on the amendments to the Budget Code, we've voted on the issue of wages. Where is the billion dollars that ordinary people should get, a simple worker? Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (to ensure the rights of workers to personal and family life). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, I just said. No, I just said everything. You can pick up the stenographer. For the return of the subject to the law of the legislative initiative. As it is written, as the committee suggests. Please support and vote. [[17:18:12]] For – 317 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have been asked to amend some of Ukraine’s laws regarding access to construction, transportation, and electricity infrastructure. — Registration No. 2042. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:18:49]] For – 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee Fedienek Alexander Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u84	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear presiding officers! Alexander Fedienko, political party "Slut of the People", committee on digital transformation. Colleagues, we have an ambitious task of building a digital Ukraine. We need to simplify and accelerate the interaction of citizens with the state. Service delivery processes should be digitised and automated. But to build a digital country, you have to have digital infrastructure. One obstacle to the implementation of such plans is the lack of Internet coverage in large areas, especially in rural areas. Thus, for a large part of the population, the Internet, as well as the provision of digital services, remains inaccessible. However, the development of digital infrastructure is not possible without the access of infrastructure providers. The application of the Ukrainian Access Act, which began in June 2017, revealed numerous gaps in this law. The owners of infrastructures of various forms of property use gaps in the Access Act and hinder the development of digital infrastructure, thereby halting digitization. It is not possible to digitize the country without appropriate legislative changes. The draft law proposes to eliminate misapplication, arbitrary treatment and interpretation of individual provisions of the Law on Access to Relationships between Owners and Operators, Providers. To establish that the element of state and municipal property infrastructure used for the placement of telecommunications equipment does not refer to public and municipal property rentals that will ensure double payment for access. Resolve relationships when infrastructure owners change, determines the infrastructure owner's responsibility for not providing access to infrastructure. The set limits on access fees, which include all taxes and congregations provided for by legislation. The adoption of the bill will bring about problems that were not covered by the previously adopted Ukrainian Law on Access to Construction, Transport, Electricity for the Development of Telecommunications Networks, which will further contribute to the development of telecommunications networks. Those positions of the bill, which have sparked remarks, will be further elaborated on the second reading. The Digital Transformation Committee, at its meeting on October 17, 2019, adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on access to infrastructure for buildings, transport, electricity (registration number 2042), introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Alexander Fedienk and Michael Kryczko on March 3, 2019. Colleagues, the implementation of the Smartphone State project is impossible without building quality digital infrastructure, so we have to improve our legislation. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u85	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? None. Dear colleagues, thank you. Then, with your permission, if there is no need to discuss it, I am voting on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding access to the infrastructure of buildings, transport, and electricity. — Registration No. 2042. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to vote? Once again, this law is placed on our first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues! Please support and vote. [[17:23:18]] For – 300 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the people" is 210, "European Solidarity" is 20, "Fatherland" is 17, "For the future" is 18, "Voice" is 18, "non-factional" is 17. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Law is under consideration. Draft Law on the Reduction of the Number of Plastic Packs in Civilian Traffic (Registration No. 2051) and Alternative (2051 with badge 1). There is a proposal to support the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please support and vote in favour of this short-term consideration of this project. [[17:24:25]] To – 256 Decision taken. We're going to consider the bill with a reduced procedure. The word is given to the Ukrainian national deputy, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. Please, Dmitri Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u86	Honorable MPs, on October 24, 2018, the European Parliament finally banned the civilian circulation of individual plastic products, recognizing the dangers of a global environmental disaster. In order to preserve nature and improve the environment, governments in more than 33 countries have already imposed a complete ban on the use of plastic bags, and about 50 more countries have introduced partial bans or sales for packages. The bill proposes the first step towards reducing the number of plastic bags in Ukraine. At the same time, MPs from the People's Party were presented with an alternative bill, drafted on a basic bill that was originally drafted by a joint effort of 60 national deputies of the past vocation, the Rising public organization, the Effective Law Enforcement Fund and British Consulting. For which I am grateful to these deputies, because thanks to you today, this idea and the project must be accepted in the first reading, despite the number of comments made by GNEU. So I'm shooting my bill in favour of 2051-1 and I'm asking you to make a concerted effort to accept it for second reading. This is exactly how Parliament should work in order to deal with the problems in the country in real terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u87	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Igor Sergiyovich Krivoshev. Please, Igor Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u88	Dear Presidium, dear colleagues, we must admit that Ukraine is now sinking in the garbage, the resources of the polygons are practically exhausted, and we have not yet learned how to sort garbage or process garbage, and most of it is plastic bags. The average person uses a pack for 20 minutes, after which the package is broken down to 500 years. Of course, we're asked to buy a very often so-called biodegradable package, but it's a lie. These packets are 90 percent, even 99 percent, made up of polyethylene, and the whole point of the process is to decompose plastic into microplastics, so this process has nothing to do with the environment. This is even harmful to ecology. Every year, every Ukrainian uses about 500 polyethylene packets, while the EU averages up to 90, and by 2025 they plan to halve this. We see that people in Ukraine are ready for quality changes: young people go to supermarkets with eco-bags, more and more inventors offer technology for the production of truly environmentally friendly disposable bags and containers. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use proposes to support these initiatives at the legislative level. The adoption of this law will contribute to the modernization of manufacturing and technological processes and stimulate the production of bioplastics, which in turn will contribute to improving environmental security and reducing the share of waste in the entire country. I urge you to be conscious and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u89	Thank you, Igor Sergiyovich. I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and the Environmental Use of Kirill Alexandrovich Nesterenko to report. Please, Kirill Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u90	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Nesterenko Kirill, 26th District, Dnipro City. It may not even be a reminder of the environmental threat posed today by the uncontrolled use of plastic bags. Our committee is constantly approached by local authorities, the public, about the urgent resolution of this issue at the legislative level. Today's legislation on reducing the number of plastic bags in civilian circulation and alternatives to restricting the circulation of plastic bags in Ukraine are aimed at reducing the amount of plastic bags and limiting their circulation. To achieve this goal, it is proposed from January 1, 22nd, to ban the deployment or distribution of lightweight and light plastic bags. It should be noted that the vast majority of the provisions presented in the bill are meaningfully consistent and are part of one area of legal regulation. But Project 2051-1 is more detailed. Yes, it proposes that mechanisms be put in place to stimulate the development of biodegradable plastic bags and that it also introduce responsibility for violating legislative requirements for the distribution of plastic bags. Now for the conclusions. The main scientific and expert office does not support both bills and suggests that they be returned to work on their comments and suggestions. In its conclusion, the Committee on Integration of Ukraine with the European Union notes that projects do not conflict with Ukraine’s obligations under the Association Agreement with the EU, against the point that the way to achieve the goal does not correspond to the approaches enshrined in the relevant acts of rights of the European Union. In connection with the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Management, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that an alternative 2051-1 project be adopted on the basis of restrictions on the circulation of plastic bags.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u91	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u92	Ukraine, submitted by our colleagues. Thank you for your attention. Please support the committee's decision, let's make our streets cleaner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Please give the floor to National Deputy Kachuri Alexandr Anatoliyovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, what are we talking about here?Oh, my God! Let's do something good for the future generation for this parliamentary call that's been over for months. The previous call addressed this issue, but it lacked political will, so we only vote with a green button, we think about the future, what rivers our children will bathe in, where our grandchildren will play with sandstones, and that's what we're only dealing with when we make this fundamental decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u95	Thank you. The word is given to the National Deputy of Germany, Vasil Ivanovich, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u96	Germany. Please pass the word to Papi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u97	Give the word to the People’s Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u98	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear citizens of Ukraine! You know, these two bills, they're very important, first of all, because they're dealing with a socially important environmental issue that is in Ukraine today. This is especially the waste of the package that relates to the polyethylene packets. Each of us, when going for a vacation with our children to the forest, or driving through the fields, saw that the country of Europe itself is now a country in general, Ukraine. Especially these packets that fly as soon as a wind blows. That's why our faction is going to vote in favour of this bill, although I'd like it to still be part of the whole waste-packing bill. But as far as I can tell by the Service of the People, you have a lot of lobbyists there, so you can't figure out what choice and what conditions of the Waste of the Package Act to give priority to, so let's at least take a partial decision on the prohibition of polyethylene packets. This will have a positive impact on Ukraine’s ecology. Our faction will vote in favour and please support. And let's still work on a whole complex law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u99	Thank you. It is given to the National Deputy of Zimmerluku Mikhailovich, the faction of the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union of the Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u100	I'd like to give it to a colleague from the faction of Angelica Labunsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u101	Angelica Labunska, faction of Fatherland. I want to say that much of the content of these bills is congruent. Definition of terms: plastic, plastic, retail, distribution ban, retail and light plastics, biodegradable packaging requirements, and so on. But I would like to point out that part three of article five of the project, which provides for the authorization of the relevant control body at the same time as the imposition of a fine, to approve a decision to confiscate plastic packages that do not meet the requirements of legislation, does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. Since, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, confiscation of property can be effected solely on the basis of a court’s decision in cases of scope and order established by law. The adoption of a separate Plastic Pack Restrictive Law does not comply with the principle of the system of legislation, which in particular excludes the plurality of laws from the same issues. Because the legal regulation of the use of the plastic packets defined in the project has no fundamental differences. And what I'm saying is that there's a number of other important issues that need to be addressed to ensure the completeness of regulating the right social relations. This is the absence of provisions that prohibit the production and import of packages. But Bill 2051-1 is more detailed. So the "Fatherland" faction will vote in the first reading and work. Mr. Chairman, I just want to address you to the entire Presidium.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u102	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u103	Look at the hall today. Well, work to cry out to each other? Yeah, I know what we're talking about. We've been looking at your back all day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to take your seats. We're going to the vote. Dear colleagues, according to the proposal, to the conclusion of the committee, I place the vote on the basis. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm giving one minute to Deputy Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection Rybczyn Oleksija Mihajlovich. But please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u105	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Alexei Rybchin, Minecoenergo. From the Minecoenergo team, from Minister Orgel. There is no doubt that we support the laws that have to do with the ban on packages. At the same time, we want to say that both bills have some irregularities, a lack of a clear institutional and legal mechanism to ensure that the project is implemented and that legal responsibility can be applied in breach of its terms. Yet, we believe that this can be taken into account in the second reading. I want to speak to Ukrainian citizens. Don't wait until the Supreme Council adopts the bill or the Ministry introduces the regulation. Use multiple bags, use multipacks, and become ecoscientized yourself without waiting for a decision from the authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-12-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. We're moving to a vote. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, a vote is taken on the basis of the draft Law on the Reduction of the Number of Plastic Packs in Civilian Traffic (No. 2051-1). The initiator is the national deputy of Ukraine Krivosheev Igor Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, are you ready to vote? Then I ask you to vote and support. [[17:38:20]] For – 365 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have continued to work in the turbine today, and we have exhausted our schedule. [[Applause]] But, dear colleagues, with your permission, I will make several announcements about the creation of interfractional alliances. So today, an interfractional third-age MP union has been formed. The headquarters of this union are the national deputies Grishna Julius Mikolayovna, the Third Galina Mikolayovna, and Joupan Andrija Viktorovich. There's an interfractional MP association called Sport and Healthy Lifestyle. The co-ordinators of the union were Belenjuk Jean Wensanovic, Mazurash Georgiyyyyyyovich, and Saladuh Olga Valeriyovna. An interfractional parliamentary association has been created "For Technological and Environmental Security in the Fuel and Energy Complex, in the Railway and Pipeway Transport of Ukraine". Shah’s Sergey Volodymyrovich is chosen as the leader of this union. An inter-fractional parliamentary association was created "Inter-Parliamentary Dialogue in the Name of Peace in Ukraine-Russia-Germany-France". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Medvedchuk Viktor Volodymyrovich, was elected head of this association. And the last. There's an interfractional MP compound called Plast. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Roman Mikhailovich, was elected head of this association. Dear colleagues, this is where I conclude the plenary session. Please don't forget to take cards from the cardholder. Thank you. Tomorrow we'll continue at 10 o'clock. Registration. Thank you. I declare the evening plenary session closed.
