ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u1	Dear National Deputies! There's a little request, a little delay in opening the session because it's coming. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, one second. We'll be right after that. [[B in m in s a l in]] The information sounds like a right to advertise, not a right to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u2	Once again, good afternoon to all, distinguished colleagues, distinguished journalists, honored invitation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Colleagues, prepare for registration, please. The registration is about to begin. Take your seats, please. Please register. Please insert the cards. Please register. [[10:54:43]] There are 398 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's start with a nice one. We have two nouns today. This is Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, the "Fatherland" faction. [[Applause]] And Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinov, the Voice faction. [[Applause]] My colleagues, we've been talking to you today. I welcome you again. I wish you well. And I'm sure all the National Deputys of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are joining in this welcome. Once again with the holiday. Let's get to work. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made at the Conciliation Council with the heads of factions to replace the speeches of the national MPs today provided by the Rules with statements from factions and to give the heads of factions up to five minutes to perform. Since this was agreed with the representatives of all political forces, I do not think that this would require an additional vote. Yeah? Then I would like you to sign up for the performances of the heads of factions, factions, and MPs. The Voice faction, Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u3	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, what happened is that we're going through the first difficult test, this is a test of lack of information, I would call it that correct. Following a statement made yesterday by the President of Ukraine, there was a perfectly logical, completely understandable concern of a society that doesn't really understand what's going on and what's waiting for us. There's a whole bunch of important bills in the Supreme Council starting with the budget and ending with the Land Market Act, but it's really hard to discuss something when we don't understand exactly what our future will look like. So the Voice faction insisted yesterday, insists today that in this room before the MPs, and then before society, before the citizens, the President speak and explain the logic of his actions, the logic of what's going on in the state of the queen of security. There is no reason yet to speak of any victory or betrayal, no reason yet to speak of what has taken place as a critical or extremely important, victorious or traitorous in the adoption by the Ukrainian delegation in the Minsk group of the so-called Steinmayer formula. So far it's just a set of words. But society, every mother, every fighter on the front has to hear from the President, who is a senior official, a guarantor of sovereignty, a reminder, the Supreme Commander, the Head of the National Security Council, they need to hear in a simple and understandable human language what the President has in mind about war and peace. Regrettably, so far, every Ukrainian citizen has not heard such reasoning. We hope to hear it. And that's why we stress once again that the President's presence, in our view, in this room is very important, is necessary to relieve the tension, in order for the tension in society to be as low as possible. Because it's a matter of security, it's a question of every citizen in this country. That's the first one. The other one. We believe that no matter how the next talks take place in the "normal" format, and as we understand it, these negotiations are planned, and they will take place in the near future, no matter how the position of Ukraine is formed, it is absolutely obvious that it is necessary to move away from the text of the Minsk Treaties, which have died, from a legal point of view, without even being born, and there is a need for a clear legal, articulated question that any negotiations, a further share of the occupied territories of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions will depend on a clear framework in which a secure format must be preceded by a political one. There will be no double interpretation, no misunderstanding on this issue, no elections in any part of Ukrainian territory under any law can take place until the security of citizens is ensured. And the security of citizens can only be ensured under the condition of a fully undisputed one-person, from the point of view of the State, the control of the Ukrainian military state over the Ukrainian-Russian border. Any conclusions, any foreign observer, any link to Ukrainian legislation, any conversation does not replace one simple formula: it is impossible to ensure the security of citizens in an area that this state does not control, cannot ensure security until the state controls its own border. As long as there's no security, any election by any law, by any number, and the quality of the observers is impossible in principle. And any conversation on this subject will look purely like speculation. We'd love to hear that from all the authorized persons, but first we'd like to hear a clear, articulated position of the President in this room. And the next. Many questions have arisen and arisen as a result of the fact that society, Ukrainian citizens, and national MPs are not well informed about the actions of our leaders in a series of important steps. As we discussed the issue of depopulation, reintegration, we never heard the position of Secretary of Defense, Chief of General Staff, Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I think it's necessary for each of these officers to go to the Supreme Council and talk about their actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u4	Thank you. The word is "Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich", the faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u5	Highly esteemed presiding officer, distinguished colleagues! "The Opposition Platform for Life" was clearly defined as a real opposition to an active coalition, to an active Cabinet of Ministers, to an active power. We will always defend and stand on the fact that our citizens have the right to the primary civil right, namely the right to the truth. Today, three ZIK channels, NewsOne, 112, journalists, who joined them from other media outlets, staged a protest: for half an hour they were silent on air. They got their mouths glued to it. Unfortunately, what is happening now in Ukraine is an attempt to shut our journalists down. It is difficult for us to approach our country’s leaders, and it is becoming dangerous. Today, we insist that we stand dead on the principles of the right to receive information and provide information. We are fiercely criticizing today's policy of accelerating the earth's market unresponsiblely, without setting up and protecting the real value of the earth, with the desire to do one thing, to crush it for those who ordered it. We won't let that happen. The referendum and exclusively the Ukrainian people have to be determined on this issue. The disgraceful budget of Dusty, Groysman, Yatzenyuk is not the budget of the people's servants, it is the Lord of the people. We're going to insist that this budget is reversed, reviewed and that it be a budget that will help raise the living standards of our citizens, raise wages, raise pensions, raise subsidies, because, by increasing the funding of law enforcement agencies by 33 billion, it actually decreases by 8 billion subsidies. The financing of health care remained at the level of Mrs. Suprun, which means that her work is alive and well - being. But we've always said that we're a tough but just opposition. Yesterday, what happened was what Ukraine had been waiting for since 2016. Finally, the words that President Zelensky of Ukraine said were, "We didn't start this war, but we're going to end it," and yesterday we started to believe it. Yeah, we've been going through this for months and we welcome yesterday's decision by the Tripartite Contact Group to sign Steinmayer's formula. Once again, Ukraine has been waiting for this since 2016. It is the hope that the road to peace has been unlocked, and Ukraine has begun to move in that direction. "The Opposition Platform for Life" calls for all parliamentary political forces, Ukrainian national deputies to support the road towards the completion of hostilities and the establishment of peace in our country. The Supreme Council is obliged to start work on the bills provided for in the Minsk Accords. We reiterate the willingness of our faction, our party for practical work on the implementation and adoption of laws that today can bring peace back to our country, can ensure the preservation of the lives of our citizens. And the life of our citizens is the primary value of our nation. Let us hope that the initiative that was taken yesterday will not be destroyed by those political forces that have not received even one percent of the support in our society. Our citizens clearly said, "Peace, economic stability and social justice." It's the Minsk Accords that are opening the way for us to do that. We need to be free, have courage, and be accountable to our citizens who want peace, stability, and a better life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u6	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u7	Dear Dmitry Aleksandrovich, distinguished deputies, the Supreme Council, a respected community! We understand that when we talk about treachery in or outside this room, it happens for two reasons. The first is because of the pianist, because someone benefits from political subjectivity, and the second is because they don't know the situation, because they don't have the information. And we are concerned, of course, about the situation after yesterday's events, when we see in a number of areas of Ukraine because of the lack of information public activists, public organizations of different treatments are beginning to raise the wave of protests. I believe that as a parliament, as a higher legislative body, we should take the lead on these events as a minimum. But together with Parliament, these events must be preceded by the executive branch of authority. That's why I'm supporting my colleague, and we insist that in part of the last three-party group agreements in Minsk and the discussions that are held on Steinmayer's formula, the minister, as the minimum foreign minister, Mr. Pristajko, is present in the Parliamentary Hall, has answered all the questions that concern society, and can bring to the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups. Dear friends, as I understand it, the Ukrainian side in Minsk did not sign any Steinmeyer formula. The Ukrainian side accepts the text of the Steinmeyer formula – these are different interpretations of this concept. We understand that this is such a step that the President needs to move forward in the Normandy process. In order to sit down, "normal format", invite Russia there, all the other participants, and develop a map of step by step -- as we continue to move on the reintegration of the occupied parts of Donbas. Next, my friends, we need to work out a new law, the Donbas Special Status Act, which, as you know, ends on December 31st of this year. We want to say, in terms of scarecrows, and in terms of real warnings, that the traps that Ukraine got into were brought to Ukrainian society earlier. These droplets are sitting in "Minish-1" and "Minish-2," and we're nowhere from them yet. Because as soon as Ukraine actually comes out of this form of the "minish process," which maybe we're looking for a part of the European community -- Germany, France and so on -- it could immediately be reflected in the sanctions regime for the Russian Federation. And we can't let that happen either. Friends, we understand Steinmayer's formula as such, not in reading the Russian Federation and not even in reading Germany, we should read Steinmayer's formula in terms of territorial integrity, based on our national interests, security interests and interests. And we think that the Steinmayer formula, which will or will not be signed in the future, will show a "normal format", and implemented in the future Donbas Special Status Act, should consist primarily of a safe part. What is the safety part? It's the separation of armies, it's the withdrawal of troops, it's the exchange of prisoners, it's the demilitarization of the occupied parts, and that's what's most important, it's the control abroad. If there is no border control to prove and convince the Normandy format, no elections in the occupied territories are possible even under Ukraine's laws. So, dear friends, Mr. Dmitry Alexanderovich, I would like to say on behalf of the MP group "For the Future" that we are now starting to be participants in this difficult, of course closed discussion, the negotiation process that is now taking place in Minsk, will continue to take place in the "normal" format, in view of the fact that we have been informed about this process and could continue to communicate correctly to the entire community. Here, in this room, let's invite the Foreign Minister to explain to us the first part that happened in Minsk in the Steinmayer formula and so on. And let's create a working group of representatives of all factions and groups that will now begin to work in cooperation with the President's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a new law on the special status of Donbas, which will predict these security components first, not the political elements. We cannot allow another Transnistria, for we will have in another way worse than Transnistria has today Moldova. And I think that we should all be involved in this process because we are accountable to citizens and to all of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u8	Thank you. Bogdan Vasilovich Yaremenko, "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u9	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues and respected citizens of Ukraine! Today, on behalf of the faction, I am obviously speaking because for five years there has been no more stringent and principled criticism of the mining arrangements in Ukraine. And so I'm going to take the liberty of taking the liberty of explaining what's going on, but before that, I want to thank all the faction leaders and groups who spoke to me for their restraint and consideration in assessing what's going on. The very restraint, the weight, the consistency, the perseverance is what ultimately brings us all victory. My dear colleagues, unfortunately, we have witnessed with you yesterday a very unpleasant trend when a large number of politicians, political scientists, experts who call themselves patriots, are more confident about the headlines of Russian media than the President of Ukraine. This is a practice that should be abandoned. What happened in the negotiations in the Tripartite Contact Group. After the meeting on September 1st of Heads of State, OSCE representative Martin Saidik asked Ukraine whether Ukraine agreed with the text of Russian proposals on how to apply the Law on Local Self-Government to the occupied. In certain areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. It's a very simple way. On a temporary basis, until local elections and on a permanent basis, after these elections. Which, of course, should be recognized in the order that we set here in Ukraine. This was answered by a letter from the OSCE representative. Not a representative of Russia, not a representative of any other recognized or unrecognizable party. He received a letter from a representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contact Group, Leonid Kuchma, saying that this text is good for us, we agreed on it, these proposals. That's it. Why it had to be done. Because it's a prerequisite, a requirement for Russia to hold a summit in the "normal" format. This is their prerequisite for the dialogue of the presidents, a dialogue that should bring peace. Peace is the goal of President Zelensky, the goal of our party. And in order to start this process, we need to carry out this precondition. Lawyers understand the value and importance of the phrase in this letter and who signed it. Now, why do we need these negotiations, what are we going to do with them, what will Ukraine be promoting? There is an answer to these questions as well. As to why are we in such a hurry, why are we in such a hurry? We're in a hurry because we get reports of the dead every day. And we can't wait, we don't want to wait. We want to negotiate. But in order for them to begin, Ukraine has its own prerequisites. They are clearly stated by President Zelenski. We started the prisoner exchange and will insist on its continuation. We must deploy troops, draw them away from the line of collision to establish a clear permanent truce and cease - fire so that our military personnel do not perish. Yes, we must have control over the areas over which they will take place. where elections will take place to the local authorities. All these red lines are clearly defined by President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine repeatedly and publicly and, I would like to say, at a meeting today with the leaders of the MP factions in the Supreme Council and with the faction of the "Serve of the People". These red lines are what we will stand for, the MPs of the "Serial of the People" party, when, indeed, it comes to the drafting of the Law on the Specialities of Local Self-Government. The law that exists does not personally set me up, because it has a position of unconditional amnesty, it has a position on local militias and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, all that I don't want to be on my land. And that's not what our faction wants. That's not what President Zelensky wants. So I ask your support, please calm down, Ukrainian diplomacy is working. We work to establish peace. Peace is not given at a simple price. Russian tanks are in our Donbassa and Crimea. Russia may impose its will on us, but it will never force us to cross the red lines I spoke of. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u10	Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Today, we have several statements in this room that we need to clarify. The first statement. There is no Steinmeyer formula in nature. It's a Russian fiction. Never before yesterday has any representative of Ukraine ever, in writing or in any other form, ever approved the Steinmayer formula. I'm telling you this as a direct participant in the Normandy format summits, where Putin has repeatedly tried to crush, stretch this version, and the Ukrainian side has always given a strong backlash. And our German, French, and American partners have always supported the Ukrainian side. "Formula Steinmeyer" was invented in the Kremlin. "Formula Steinmayer" protects Russian interests. "Formula Steinmeyer" from yesterday, as if you were now trying to convince you of the reverse, after it was declared to the world that Ukraine approved it, only from yesterday became part of the whole process. What did they tell you six months ago? It's very easy to stop a war -- just stop shooting. This claim can easily be verified in the September months of this year: 41 injured, 11 dead. And that's the price that Ukraine pays. Gives way to Russian aggression. The evaluation of Steinmayer's formula has already been made after Ukraine's approval by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation on the question "and what will it be in occupied areas?" Lavrov said, "It will be just like in Transnistria." That's his vision. Don't you hear that? The leaders of the bandit formations went on to say two hours ago, "The approval by Ukraine of the Steinmeyer formulas "reaffirms, confirms and guarantees the right of the Donbass people to self-determination." That's what we agreed on. This is the price that Ukraine should pay only for the opportunity to discuss at the "Normandy format" summit what to do next. I would like to stress that meetings in "normal" format at the highest level should be exactly without any prior conditions. Third position. In adopting the Steinmeyer formula, Ukraine voluntarily renounced the Minsk road map of implementation, which was supported by our German and French partners. This is a very clear document that has been developed, and I'm going to ask every national MP to get it and see for himself. Another position. Ukraine never takes a stand for a peacekeeping contingent right now, as decided by the United Nations Security Council, supported by all our partners. And only Putin was against it. This should be the subject of careful discussion. I stress the priority of a security component that should precede politics. About getting the Russian troops out of our territory. On the subject of heavy engineering and artillery. On the disarmament of illegal military formations. On ensuring the activities of political parties, candidates from Ukraine. To participate in the election of temporary displaced persons. And about controlling the border. This is all in "Minsky," and this is what we have to ensure as a premeditated beginning of the political process. Unfortunately, now the only thing we've got is a blow to world solidarity on Ukraine's support, which came after the announcement of the appropriate conversation. The attack on both our German and our French partners, the attack on two-party unity and the support we've been working on for five years. But I want to make a clear point. Friends, now is the time to unite. And with any argument within the state, there's a country on the outer front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u12	Colleagues, we've given it five minutes anyway. Come on, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u13	And in this case, our joint decision may help Ukraine not to fall into the trap Putin planned. So I support the position that the President has. Thank you. And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to issues of order. Excuse me, Julia Volodymyrna. They didn't sign up for Fatherland. I'm sorry. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u15	Good afternoon, dear fellows! First of all, I think there are a lot of different things going on around us, and we, as nations, as a nation, as a nation, need: (a) to understand clearly all the interests that are around us today, around our territory. And secondly, we need regardless of which parties we're divided into, which groups we see and understand, we just need to figure out for ourselves what is in this fight, when we're occupied by Crimea and Donbas, when we're at war, we need to be the only team. We are the only team, and today is the President of Ukraine, who can lead this team and preferably succeed. In order to be able to realize what happened, I'd like to tell you a little bit about the details. Because what we all need to know today is details to make decisions. So first of all, what is Steinmeier's formula at all. Because everyone today is easily operating on that concept, but absolutely no one has said exactly what it is. Someone for Steinmeier's formula, someone against it, and what is it really? First of all, I don't agree that this is air, because Steinmayer's formula was essentially formalized by a special letter from Minister of Foreign Affairs of Laurent Fabious and Steinmayer, which is how they formalized the text, and everyone in the world knows what Steinmayer's formula is. It predicts that local elections must be held in Ukraine in the occupied area of Donbas. With the adoption of the Local Elections Act, 90 days later, and if it normally sanctifies the OSCE that everything happened there is "Chiki-Piki," yes, everything is fine under our flags, then the Law on the Special Status of the Lugansk, the Donetsk Region is in force. Nor did this president pass the Law on the Special Status of the Luhansk and Donetsk Region. We were the only team that voted against this bill. And when someone today opposes the autonomy of the Luhansk and Donetsk region, let's be honest with you that autonomy is actually and absolutely enshrined in the Law on the Special Status of the Lugansk and Donetsk region. We don't have to fool each other here. And now the question. Why is Steinmeyer's formula not good for Ukraine? Because they insisted that elections to local authorities and their legalization take place without the demilitarization of the territory of the occupied Donbas and without the restoration of the border under the control of Ukraine. Not the line of delimitation, but the Russian-Ukrainian border. And certainly the return of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine, and certainly the return of those displaced persons who want to return there. In other words, Steinmeyer's formula in the diplomatic world is understood to mean that first the elections, and then, as life will show, and then the formula of Ukraine is first demilitarization complete, the restoration of the border, the return of the law, the Constitution, the control of Ukraine over this territory, and then the elections. That's the difference. But at the same time, as a parliament, we as a team must stand before the President today, rather even a fortress in front of him, and you and I must approve the amendments to the Law on the Special Status of the Donetsk Region, the Luhansk Region. And we need to remove part of the diplomatic burden from the President, and here, in Parliament, we need to make the Ukrainian formula for the resolution of the East War, the return of territories to Ukraine, and certainly the return of peace. But remember, if you go through the Steinmayer formula and if they vote with guns and vote without people, and without Ukraine, then it's not Transnistria, it's going to be returned, in fact, to the Transnistria in the composition of Ukraine, and they'll then make decisions about the life of Ukraine under the control of the Russian Federation. And then the nearest vote -- parliamentary, presidential -- doesn't matter, 5.5 million in that area of voting ballots, there won't be any people there. But if this area remains under the control of the Russian Federation inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u16	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u17	Inside Ukraine, that means that 5.5 million forged ballots are changing all proportions inside Ukraine, and we're going to be the colony of the Russian Federation again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, two factions called for a 30 - minute recess. From what I understand, we're just taking a break from 12 hours to now and starting. [[Noise Nodes]] Are you insisting on a break? We've got 12:30, 12 to 12:30. Maybe we can work, right? [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, we've got half an hour, we've started working later. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, let's work, insist factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we vote this out? Okay. Well, then, colleagues, I can't refuse two factions to take a break, but I can suggest that the hall cancel the break from 12 to 12:30. Right? I'm not breaking anything in the Rules, am I? Thank you. Colleagues, then I'm putting to the vote a motion to cancel the recess at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 12 to 12:30. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[11:30:44]] For the 250. Decision taken. Break from 12 to 12:30 cancelled. At the same time, I announce a break of up to 12 hours at the request of two factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and get ready for work. Dear colleagues, let's get started, take your seats. We're already off schedule. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. My colleagues, please take over. Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich, please take your seats, Andry Andryovich Kloczko. Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been given a draft Order to make changes to the agenda of the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. What? Colleagues, that's not in the Rules, but, well, that's good. No, no, no, no. Sergey Ivanovich, good. Two minutes, if you don't mind. Turn on the microphone of Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I speak on behalf of three factions: the Voice factions, the European Solidarity factions and the Fatherland factions. During the break, we agreed on a joint proposal to the President of Ukraine: personally direct our position to the MPs and to the public on further depopulation, reintegration of the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk, Lugansk. And the position of two factions: European Solidarity and the Voice faction, we have yet to accept this proposal with the Fatherland faction. We demand that today, at 16 o'clock, we come to the Supreme Council of Foreign Ministers and the Chief of General Staff of Homchak with a view to sounding the position of the relevant authorities on specific actions taking place in eastern Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u21	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. I think everyone has plans for work, both in the Supreme Council and in the ministries. We're going to pass on this proposal and we're going to be able to agree on our plans and maybe come and report to both the Supreme Council and the ministers and representatives of the central authorities. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You will be presented with the draft Decree (Registration No. 2101-5) on the amendment to the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. A draft decision and an appendix are given to you. This decree provides for the inclusion in the agenda of legislative initiatives proposed by MPs and groups, nonfractional national deputies, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, who propose to include committees in the agenda of the day - to - day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Thirty-eight questions. If there is no objection, please prepare for the vote and. The motive is Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u22	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, honourable deputies, colleagues, we are now voting on a draft decree to be included in the agenda. You know, we have actually registered drafts with you, with us, with you, deputies, three times as much as we're proposing to include. Why are we making such a filter? Why, I have a question, we're making such a filter that a committee, where most people in each committee, in fact, 60 percent of the Party of Servants of the People, have to decide which issues to put into the agenda that they don't. I understand the rules of the Rules, but strictly ethical norms and the rules of the Constitution say that the MP has the right to legislative initiative. And we ask each time, please, let's include, as in previous years, all the bills that are registered by the MPs, and then you as the Head, when you're going to be the day-to-day order, let's say you sign, you'll already determine how much you need to put in a bill. But this will enable MPs to report these laws professionally on committees, to work out, and perhaps the best brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u23	Thank you. Vadim Evgenovich, well, we heard a position. See article 23 of the Rules, which you just mentioned, provides for this procedure. I think it's my personal position that it's important not to put it into the agenda, but it's important that it works. To work on accepting a bill that would become law would work for that State. If it's just a question for us to put into the agenda, well, we're going to use the same methods that were before. I'm sure the committees will consider these issues further and make decisions. The motive is Heroschenka, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dmitre, we have also been very familiar with your decision. There's only one bill of our political power that applies to the Law on the Status of Veterans, and it's good to include it for consideration and inclusion in the agenda. At the same time, we want to fully support our colleagues, which we believe is a violation of the right of MPs to legislative initiative today, when these bills, which have been drafted by minority factions, are not included in the agenda. That's not true, actually, that's the result. If we don't get into the agenda, there's no way these laws are going to be considered. And that's why we emphasize that during your inaugural speech you've pointed out that you're going to be the head of the Supreme Council of all, not just one faction. Your decision, unfortunately, has bills mostly of one faction. So we're very much asking you to take this into account and, nevertheless, when you form the order of the day with the same equality of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u25	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. Look, first of all, this is not my position, this is the position of the committees. And I'm coming out of their proposals. The other one. I'm sure if we're with you after, well, for example, during the lunch break, we start to discuss these bills, then we'll have all the political forces represented in Parliament there, and the interests of all the political forces in one way or another are taken into account there. So if you don't. Colleagues, come on, come on, we're not doing the job right now, we're doing it again. It's not motive, it's not motive anymore. Let's vote and include these issues. Everybody wants to work. So I hear, from all the political powers, there's a proposal to work on the bill. Then let's turn them on and work. And talk. I'm ready, please. Yuri Alexiyovich, please, please. Let's support and include these issues in the agenda of the day session. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:23:45]] For 253 Against - 3, holding - 69. Order (registration 2101-5) on the change in the order of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call was adopted. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, we talked a lot about this, and we agreed to do so while we were working on a preparatory parliamentary group. Finally, all positions between all political forces were reconciled. That is why you are now invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legal Status of War Veterans. The reporter for this question is the National Deputy of Ukraine Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u26	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm not leaving the rostrum, but I'm afraid it's not available to me either. I want to say about the commission, it's extremely important, and we need to understand what is the priority of shaping public policy for veterans in close interaction with them. It is essential that this state policy be prepared in a high-quality legislative framework that responds to real needs and solves the real problems of veterans. We need to create a foundation that would create new opportunities for returning veterans, this is both the opening up of business and education and health services, and education for veteran children, and care for the families of the dead, and respect for memory, which is a very wide range of problems that unfortunately still need to be addressed. We have to do everything we can to restore the confidence of the veterans in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u27	Thank you, Jana Vadimovna. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u28	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! At the meeting yesterday, the Regulatory Committee discussed the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Parliamentary Commission on the Legal Status of War Veterans. Again, we also mentioned that this idea was widely supported by all members of the preparatory parliamentary group before the parliamentary powers of today’s vocation. And the need to create this commission is due to the need for a coordinated system-wide settlement of issues of the legal status of war veterans, including those at the same time in connection with several parliamentary committees of the current convening. According to this project, it is proposed to approve a quantitative composition of 12 national deputies. Representatives of all MP factions and MPs are personally proposed. We also, the committee, pointed out that the project does not contain information on the definition of proportional representation of factions, MPs about the number of their representatives. And thus, on the basis of this, the committee adopted a decision, a conclusion on this project, decided to recommend to Parliament that it be placed in the agenda and taken as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u29	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please sign up for factions: two in, two in. Oddczuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Lesi Vasilko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u31	Lescia Vasilko. Lescia Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u32	Congratulations, colleagues. And thank you so much for taking this initiative to create a separate temporary committee for veterans. It is vital for a country that wants to have a strong army to care for its veterans. For a country in a state of war, it is necessary to understand that men and women who defend us daily against the gun of an aggressor deserve the highest level of respect and respect. One of the tasks of our commission will certainly be to provide a legislative base so that society can honor our veterans so that we can all together pay due respect and respect to the men and women who defend us and at different times defend us from armed aggression, the territory of Ukraine. Thank you very much to the regulatory committee and thank you very much for supporting this initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Ivan Ivanovich Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u34	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is our debt that has remained in our Parliament since the work of the preparatory group. When a decision was made unanimously at the preparatory group meeting, a temporary special commission was to be set up to look after the veterans. And, really, I agree that this is not a question that concerns a single committee. It's a complex issue that's in both the social policy committee and the Human Rights Committee and the budget committee and the National Security and Defence Committee. This is a question that applies to those who gave their health and life in order to protect Ukraine from Russian aggression, in order to protect our borders, in order to resist enemies who are encroaching on Ukrainian land. And, of course, ours must be the task, and my personal dream is to treat Ukrainian veterans as they do veterans in the United States Congress. When it is people who have more than just protection and respect, and it is people who realize that, after protecting their state, the state will take care of them, give them employment opportunities, give them opportunities for social adaptation, and give them opportunities for families who are waiting for their loved ones from the hottest points, from the battlefield, to make them feel safe. So I urge every MP to unite the hall to support this decision. "Paternality" will vote in favour. And we, as a faction of Fatherland, have submitted to this temporary special committee, Michael Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, the first deputy to the Committee on Social Policy. Please be supportive. And thank you all for joining us together to protect veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u35	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please turn on the microphone. Deputies for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u36	Please give the floor to our representative of the "For the Future" MP at TSK, Mrs. Irina Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u37	Irina Konstankevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u38	Dear fellow national MPs! The Future Group believes that the creation of such a commission is a matter of both honour and dignity for the people's deputies. But together with the question of worthy and proper veneration of veterans, we must talk about the implementation of the existing laws and obligations of the state that have been made before the veterans, but unfortunately they are not being fulfilled. So the question of control, I think, should be the same within the competence of our commission. And the Group "For the Future" requires that those commitments that have been made to veterans be fulfilled. Sadly, reality dictates something else. We see that the outstanding obligations to veterans in matters of land, social, psychological rehabilitation are also a number of other issues, and the Group "For the Future" has repeatedly talked about this. So we think that the commission should work, there should be results not only in honoring, honoring veterans, but in monitoring and legislative ensuring the viability and guarantees of war veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u39	Thank you. It's a motive. I'm sorry. Comedian Natalia, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u40	Please pass the word to the Royal Natalia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u41	Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" supports the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans. But we want to point out that there can be no veterans protecting the country today, or those protecting it yesterday. And the most important question is the attitude of every person who has given their time, their faith, their will to do their national duty, their human duty, and to protect their country. And unfortunately, in the last five years, people who participated have protected Ukraine during the Great War of Homeland, and they have deprived almost all the benefits and compensation. And every day, they're getting smaller and smaller. And so today we are obliged not only to provide proper protection for veterans, but to protect all the veterans who protected our country and during the Great Homeland War, and to protect us from the great tragedy of Chernobyl. And we can't say today which of these people is the more genuine patriot of Ukraine, each of them was protecting Ukraine, each of them has provided us with a proper existence today, and every one of them today has the right to be protected and supported. Therefore, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will vote in favour of this decision and will insist on the comprehensive protection and support of Ukrainian veterans, despite the year they were born and the place where they protected and carried out their debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u43	Thank you. For reasons, the word is given to Gethmansev Daniel Alexanderovich, the "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u44	Thank you. I want to thank my colleagues from all the factions for supporting the "Serial of the People" faction initiative, which was expressed in the preparatory group before the first session of the Supreme Council, about the creation of the Veterans Commission. Actually, veterans, and we don't distinguish between veterans of World War II, veterans of those who are ATO veterans now. These are the best representatives of our people, the best representatives of our society, the people who have stood up for our nation and who need a special attitude, a special attitude that needs protection of their rights. And we hope that by uniting the efforts of all factions, we will find the best solution in this area. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u45	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. The word is given to Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, the faction of European Solidarity. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u46	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119th constituency, ATO participant, participant in combat. There's a lot of talk here about respect for veterans, and I'll tell you that the highest level of respect would be if a separate committee were created, which the faction of "European Solidarity" insisted on. And what we're seeing right now is Steinmeyer's formula, it's disrespect for veterans, it's disrespect for their actions. to those sacrifices that they have made since the 14th year in the east of our country for their integrity, for the sovereignty of this state. So I want to go to the veterans who are looking at us now, to the boys, to the brothers. Note that at any moment we can call you and become shoulder to shoulder to protect this Motherland is already here, within our nation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I don't quite get it, you. I take it you don't support, do you, the proposal to create a commission? Isn't it full? All right. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans. — Registration No. 2153. Please support and vote. [[12:38:24]] For 340. Against 0, holding 4. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 231, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 16, "European Solidarity" – 26, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 16, "The Non-Factional" – 21. Thank you. Decision taken. A decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal status of war veterans (register No. 2153) has been adopted. Let us now consider the issues of the order of the day that are found in the second reading. Dear colleagues, you have been handed over a bill amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act on improving the procedure for the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio. The request to the National Deputies does not differ because there are not many lines. Amendment number two. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy Tkachenko Alexander Vladislavovich Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u48	Good afternoon, colleagues! I won't take up much of your time. This is a bill that allows you to make it impossible for the National Television and Radio Council to work. At the National Council, eight members, at three o’clock, end at the time, from the elected Parliament, the term on the National Council. We propose a mechanism that will allow the competition to continue with the work of this important body. During the committee’s discussion, the amendments made by Mrs. Kondratuk and Mr. Knieżicki regarding the terms of the competition were partially taken into account. In order for such a situation to continue, the competition should take place 90 days before the end of the term of office of members of the National Council. Other amendments were rejected, including the amendments made by Mr. Rahmanin. They're good enough, but we're going to take them into account in the broader law that we're discussing right now, the audiovisual services, where we're going to have new powers of the National Council. So please support the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u49	Thank you. Let's go straight. Amendment number two. Rachmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Pauline. Amendment number 3. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u50	Dear Mr. Head! Dear reporter! I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the body that appoints members of the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, rather than exercise its powers, namely to announce the competition and appoint new members of the National Council from the Supreme Council, whose terms of office have expired, but they make decisions, are engaged in such legislative activities instead of exercising their powers. So I urge not all to vote in favour of this bill, but I call on the leadership of the Supreme Council and the board to implement Article 5 of the National Council on Television and Radio Broadcasting Act, to announce the competition and stop using the National Council tool today as an organ of censorship and persecution of independent media.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u51	Thank you. Alexander Vladislavovich, you will comment on something. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u52	The only thing I wanted to say is that this Supreme Council isn't a problem, it's a problem of the last Supreme Council that didn't announce the competition in time. We'll announce the contest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u53	Do you insist on voting? The committee's position is not to support number three. I'll bet you vote number three. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:42:39]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Edit number 4, Condratjuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. No. 5, Rachmanin. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Edit number, number six, Condratjuk. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Rule number seven, Pauline. He insists. Please turn on the Pavlovka microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, this amendment also applies to a strange novel in this bill, which stipulates that the mandate of a member of the National Council continues until the election of a new member of the National Council. Although I would like to pay attention, the article of the law today makes it clear that the mandate of a member of the National Council is as much as he was elected: for five years. In my opinion, with this right, this novel is intended to legalize the decisions and actions adopted today by the current composition of the National Council, where the three members of the National Council are no longer authorized, but today they are making decisions, repressive decisions against independent media. I'll remind you, it's against the NewsOne channel. It's against the National Council, and it's against the 112 channel. And I don't rule out that similar decisions are made by other independent media that are already disagreeable to today's authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u55	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u56	Edit rejected. It's not the Law on Legalization, it's the Law on the Continuous Work of the National Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u57	Thank you. The committee does not support number 7. Please vote and determine. [[12:44:42]] For-40 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 8. Rachmanin. Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number nine. Condrat. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u58	I'm on. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, today, perhaps for an average citizen, this may be an uninteresting or incomprehensible bill concerning the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. But it's actually a very important law, because it will then directly affect Ukraine's information security. I would like to stress that the National Council is actually a constitutional, permanent, collegiate body that oversees compliance with Ukrainian laws in the field of television and radio. In fact, our citizens are watching on television and listening on the radio. That's why we, I would stress that if it's a college body, it should have balanced representations of different political and ideological communities, including the Supreme Council. That's why we, in principle, would insist that there should be a transparent and competitive non-packaged vote for members of the National Council. Because this will allow us to discuss publicly and consider all the members of the National Council that should be representing this regulatory body. That is why I would insist on the support of my amendments 9, 14, 16, namely the Batch Voting, which relates to the amendment of Articles 4, 5 and 6 of Laws 5. In fact, by supporting the articles to the 4th part of the first and second part of article 5, which is proposed by the committee. Thank you. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u59	Thank you. Committee position, Alexander Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u60	We have considered this proposal. The point is that the law in force and the proposals contained in this rule of law take into account the principle of ratings. At the same time, voting allows all existing vacancies to be filled. In addition, Mrs. Kondratjuk’s partial readjustment regarding 90 days before the end of the term is included in the amendment of the next Mr. Knieżicko. But this amendment was recommended to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u61	Thank you. I'm betting vote number nine, the committee doesn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:47:11]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 11, People's Deputy. Don't insist. Number 12, Pauline. He insists. Okay. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u62	Your Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, I also insist on this, because unfortunately the bill does not solve the task in the title of the bill itself. Not that the release and assignment procedure is not improving, but rather that the constitutional independent body, which is the National Council for Television and Broadcasting, the body that is supposed to help form a full information environment, is being transformed into a penal body in the hands of the authorities, into an organ that will shut down any inconvenient media medium, an organ that unfortunately will be in the circumstances proposed by the law on its election and appointment, is actually monopolistic in the hands of one political force. That's why I insist on my amendment. I also appeal to the Supreme Council not to vote in favour of this law, the law of persecution of the media, the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u63	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Alexander Vladislavovich, position of committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u64	The committee's position is to reject. Our song is beautiful and new, let's start it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u65	Thank you. Amendment number 12. I'll bet you a vote. Please identify and vote. [[12:49:13]] For-37 Thank you. The decision is not taken. For -37. Amendment number 15, People's Deputy of the Prince. Don't insist. Amendment number 17, National Deputy Rahmanin. Don't insist. Amendment number 18, National Deputy Rahmanin. Amendment number 19, Crawchuk. Amendment 20, Rachmanin. We've been through everything. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u66	Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting Act on improving the procedure for the release and appointment of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio (register No. 2036). Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:50:56]] For 266 Counter-18, hold on to 53. The law was passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on improving the procedure for licensing (registration number 1060). It's a second reading of the law. The report is given by Podlas Roxolani Andriyovni, deputy head of the Economic Development Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Let me remind you: Bill 1060 has several key tasks. First of all, it's cleaning up all the sectoral laws that don't comply with the Ukrainian License Act. I have already stressed many times from this rostrum that there are variations and conflicts in legislation that are a tool of pressure on business. Thus, government authorities continue to issue licences and demand that licensing conditions be met even if licensing is revoked in some area. I would like to point out immediately that between the first and second readings of Bill 1060, the committee excluded all mentions of space licensing, since a comprehensive bill 1071 is proposed for licensing. Meanwhile, Project 1060 performs another task: to improve the Licensing Act itself. Because the practice of applying this law has revealed a number of shortcomings. In particular, for example, licensing authorities have found that they do not implement the decisions of the Board of Appeal as the body of pre-trial prosecution. And we're taking responsibility for failing to implement this body's decisions, because business interests need to be protected. We uphold the principle that new types of licensing are introduced exclusively by law and by amending article 7 of the Ukrainian License Act. Finally, we simplify the licensing procedure as such and introduce a temporary suspension mechanism. Because now the license is being revoked and even after its removal, the entrepreneur has to wait a year to seek a renewal of the license. During the drafting of the bill, 88 comments and suggestions were received to the committee for the second reading of the bill, which resulted in a rejection of 13 of the Committee’s comments and suggestions. The Committee decided to recommend draft Law No. 1060 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading and to adopt draft Law No. 1060 on second reading and generally as a law with further technical legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u69	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. I'm asking you not to leave the rostrum. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Amendment number 10, Kunaev, National MP. Don't you insist? No, it's not. 11, Kunaev. Amendment 14, Shulak. Don't insist. No. 17, Raducci. Don't insist. Amendment number 24, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 25, Yvchenko. He insists. 25 lacquers. Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u70	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. We, my dear colleagues, are in favour of this bill. But at the same time, I want to remind everyone that we're here in this law, for example, we're removing the ban on advertising goods in the absence of appropriate certificates, including food. And the second. Of course, I'm not happy that we're completely cleaning out article 6 of the Drug and Psychotropic Substances Act, where we install, more precisely, we make sure that such companies don't take licenses that run drugs. That doesn't make us happy. And so in general, the law is normal, the law as deregulation goes and makes business easier. But I would like the committee to consider professionally where it can be done and where it cannot be done. Because tomorrow, when our children get poisoned, who's responsible for it, because companies that run certain ones there produce their products, they don't have a proper material and technical base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u71	Thank you. Vadim Evgeniovich, do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Ivchenka's next draft is 27. Don't insist. 32nd, Yvchenko. Don't insist. 50th, Bondarenko. Don't insist. 51st, Bondarenko. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, there are only three revisions left. So invite the national deputies to the hall, please. Amendment number 85, Ironman. Are you insisting? Don't insist. No. 86, Iron. Don't insist. And it's number 88, Schuljak. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we've gone through all the lines. People's deputies, please come to the hall and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the order of licensing (registration number 1060). It is suggested that we accept it in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. People's deputies please prepare for the vote and go to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and vote. [[12:58:22]] For 301 Against 11, hold on to 7. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Please show by faction: The Servant of the People – 224, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherland" – 14, "For the Future" – 13, "The Voice" – 16, "the non-factional – 16. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional anti-corruption mechanism, this is the second reading. The speech is given to the head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u72	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What's this bill that we're considering right now? This is a long-awaited relaunch of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. For three years we have been living with a nonworkable organ, and we have been waiting three years for it to be restarted. What does the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption do during this time? To be honest, it is even difficult to choose the brightest ones from all this example of his inaction. For example, NAZK has never been able to run an automatic check on the officials’ declarations instead of choosing such a pace of verification that they would have checked declarations for another 7,000 years. 7,000 years. Guys, it's not a joke, it's a score, it's got to go in the past, it's an absolute disgrace. Instead, what did NAC do? They literally print indulgences to the troublesome declaration of officials, and think about it, every third such indulgence they issue, without even checking any documents, colleagues. Instead, instead of checking one of the prosecutors’ backgrounds, they went to court to confiscate the dog. It's an absurd, just inactive organ, and we have to finally put this dot. What the bill is proposing. Instead of several NAMC members working in a collective irresponsibility regime, choosing one new head of NAMC to do so through a competitive commission with the participation of international experts, as it did for the selection of judges of the Anti-Corruption Court. Finally, start an automatic check of officials’ declarations and close all of these holes in the declaration of officials’ assets behind whom corrupters have been hiding. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy received 131 amendments to the bill. Of these, 60 are counted and 63 are rejected. Colleagues, the committee has been looking at every amendment to this bill for six hours, no one can say that they had no opportunity to make an amendment or that the committee had not worked on all the amendments. Last but not least, colleagues, I want to remind you that relaunching the anti-corruption agency is a promise for the election of at least three parties here. So, colleagues, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy at its meeting has identified itself and very much asks the honourable colleagues of the national MPs to support this bill in second reading and in general with the necessary technical legal work. Thank you very much, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u73	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Let us now consider the proposed and rejected rights. Edit number one, Krasnosilski, rejected. Don't insist. Edit number 7, Slavicka. Don't insist. Edit 8, Puzanov. Don't insist. No. 11, Fris. Don't insist. Edit 12, Krasnosilski. No. 17, Puzanov. No. 18, Fris. Amendment number 19, Makarov. Amendment 20, Jurchishin, insists. Turn on the microphone, number 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u74	Thank you very much. In fact, I am very grateful that the NAMK restart process has been started. This is really necessary, an adequate commission will be created to ensure that the best are chosen for this body, and that it finally begins to actually verify the declarations. The only proposal that stops our faction from voting for this bill is that we are actually killing in the bill the possibility of having political parties independent of the oligarchs, taking away funding from them. My aim is to allow funding to be obtained transparently, not in oligarchs. Requesting support, and this will be an opportunity to engage the voices of our faction in support of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Committee position, Anastasia Olegovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u76	Colleagues, the committee on this amendment did not make a decision. For the time being, the drafts of the first reading remain in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u77	Then, dear fellows, I put the vote to the vote. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm betting on the vote number 20. Please identify yourself and vote. [[13:04:31]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Line 21, Cabachenko. Don't insist. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u78	Thank you very much. The amendment refers to the fact that this bill contains an entirely non-corresponding paragraph and includes amendments to the Ukrainian Political Parties Act. We fully agree that we need to reload NAZK because it doesn't work. But this law must be considered exclusively from the point of view of the proper work of NAMK. Why now discuss the Law on Ukraine’s political parties, reduce funding, and reduce the passage barrier for the parties that receive this government funding, we do not understand. And we suggest that we put it into another bill, discuss it, and then vote. And one more moment is very important. We're saying that NAZC is now becoming a single organ of government. But to this one person, there are no criteria from the committee for his experience, for his education, nothing at all. So you get a very wide spectrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u79	Thank you. Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u80	So a person gets a very wide range of powers, and we can't be sure who this person is, and this person is going through a special checkup right after she started leading NAMK. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u82	Same thing as the last amendment. There is no committee decision on this amendment, the first reading is left, this is the requirement of the Rules at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, please vote and determine. [[13:06:37]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 22. People's MP, Greeb. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, on the one hand, we are looking at the title of this bill and we are talking about preventing corruption. On the other hand, I completely agree with Mr. Jurchisin, who says, "If we now raise the level of those parties that will be financed to 5 percent, we will not be preventing corruption here, and that is what we will be doing." I ask you very much to support the amendment, because 2 percent is exactly the thesis that was consulted with Europeans, and they fully support it: both the Venice Commission and the PASJE, and also the Council of Europe. I'd like you to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u85	Please tell me you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 22 of the people's representative of the Gryb. Please identify and vote. [[13:08:00]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Amendment No. 23 of the People's Deputies of Sumar. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, very many lyrics sounded back to the second reading, but there was no answer as to why for the first time I saw the second reading of the 22 pages of GNEU rights that the committee had not considered. Where are we in a hurry? Why couldn't we, Anastasia Olegna, meet for a recess to approve these amendments, and we could, in line with the conclusion of the GNEU, adopt this bill. That's the first thing. Second thing. And for the first time, by the way, I see that these violations happen. The second thing is about political parties. Now the majority, which for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament, has a monopoly, kills small parties and stimulates political corruption by those who do not now consider this amendment. Keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u87	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u88	Mrs. Victoria, first of all, I would like to point out that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration was worked by the committee before the first reading. The conclusion of the General Legal Authority has also come, and there is nothing beyond technical refinements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u90	The Committee has not adopted a decision on these amendments and the first reading is now left in accordance with the requirements of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u91	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote number 23 of National Deputy Sumar. Please identify and vote. [[13:09:49]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 24, National Deputy Savichuk. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I am absolutely convinced of what we need to say. We're all talking about the fact that our budget, the budget, is definitely underexpenditure for social programs and so on. I think that the $1 billion that's invested in financing political parties really needs to be translated into social programs and completely shut down financing for the parties. If we offer to finance only parliamentary parties, we are thereby reducing the influence of those parties that are represented, which have received fairly substantial voter support and have not raised 5 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u93	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Turn it on. I'll bet on the vote number 24, National Deputy Saucuk. Please identify and vote. [[13:11:04]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 25. People's Deputy Fries. Don't insist. Edit number 26, Slavicka. Don't insist. 27 — Fries. Is Francis insisting on some kind of a readjustment? No, it's not. 28th, Sumar. Don't insist. Thirty-three, Ivanchuk. 31st, Fris. Is he insisting? Yeah. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u94	Good afternoon. Thank you for being able to say so. Look, to exclude this rule from the text of the bill. Even in the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is clear that according to the proposed changes to article 45's footnote, the crime envisaged in part one is the declaration of unreliable information, which is referred to as a corruption criminal offence. However, given the above-mentioned notion, corruption in the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, the submission of a declaration by the subject of the declaration, and the responsibility for submission refer to financial control measures. So then the action envisaged in 366 with the code 1 badge should not refer to corruption crimes. I insist that we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u95	Thank you. Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Are you insisting? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u96	The committee rejected the amendment, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u97	I'll bet on the vote number 31, National Deputy Fries. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:01]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Let's go to number 33. Ivanchuk. Don't insist. 34 – Makarov. Don't insist. 35 — Ivanchuk. Ivanchuk and Makarov, are you insisting on any adjustments? Is there a room? None. Amendment number 40, Fris. Don't insist. Edit 48, Fris. 42rd, turn on the microphone, Fries.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u98	This amendment refers to what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u99	Wait, 42 papers, Krasnosilski. Colleagues, you. Well, yes, Krasnosilski, the author. Why Fris? 42nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u100	By the way, colleagues, 42nd is edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u101	Colleagues, Fries, 48 revisions. 43rd, Sumar, partially counted. What do you want me to do, Victoria? Please turn on the Sumar microphone, 43 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u102	Thank you. Unfortunately, the committee didn't view it as GNEU's proposals, and we didn't have the opportunity, well, actually. Unfortunately, we did not take into account these suggestions that now seem to me to be correct. However, it does apply to 43 revisions. Colleagues, this is about our assistants with you, whom we are now obliged to declare. The declaration states that they are persons made to perform the functions of the State and local self - rule. What authority do our helpers have? No signature rights, nothing like that. The committee took into account, thank you for this, the proposal to exclude helpers on public ambushes, because it looked ridiculous at all. But the amendment in general was to be ruled out. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u103	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u104	Colleagues, the committee has taken this amendment into account in an editorial way and has excluded from the declaration regime those members of the public service who carry out their duties on the basis of public principles. And that's absolutely, I think, an acceptable compromise. Those assistants who receive funds for their activities should submit declarations, and this seems logical.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u105	Thank you. Colleagues, let's not discuss it, it was on the committees. Dear colleagues, do you insist on voting? I'll bet on it. What should be the wording now? Victoria Petrovna, what formulation do you want us to make? The whole thing? Okay. I'll bet you a vote on the bill as a whole. Please identify and vote. [[13:16:16]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Next line is 46, Makarov. None. 48th, Fris. None. 49th, Krulko. Don't insist. 51st, Sumar. Don't insist. Puzanov, 53rd. Batenko, 54th. 55th, Zmerenecki. 64th, Sumar. 66th, Jurchishin. 67th Vasilchenko. Polakov, 52 lashes. The decision is not taken. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u106	The price for head candidates is 35 years. But NAZK is the central authority of the executive authority, which according to its authority and status. correspond to the level of ministers. Yet such a requirement does not apply to ministers. Which is why, in particular, Ukraine now has the youngest government in history, with a Deputy Prime Minister of 28 years and a part of ministers from 29 to 34 years of age. On the committee, we talked about the fact that this age price could either be cancelled or as a compromise decision to change from 35 years to 30 years, which I suggested. But we were unable to make decisions on the committee. If possible, put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u107	Okay. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u108	Colleagues, the committee did not support this amendment because there were conflicts of interest among members of the committee. Appropriately, the hall can support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the vote to 52 of the Pollock People's Deputies. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please support and vote number 52 of the People's Deputies of Polyakov. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[13:19:25]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 68, Fris. Don't insist. Amendment 70, Jurchishin. Don't insist. Sumar, 64th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u110	Colleagues, the point is that the deputy heads of the national agency are to be appointed in accordance with the State Service Act. In fact, we are now giving such authority to one person when he himself also appoints intercessors in contravention of this Law on State Service, even though we define it as CEV, or the central authority of executive power. Considering once again that the law does not prescribe qualifications for a candidate and we kill a college body that is now NAMK, well, at least the deputies should be appointed according to the legislation. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u111	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u112	Colleagues, the committee rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u113	Amendment number 64, National Deputy Sumar. Please identify and vote. [[13:20:58]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Amendment 70, Jurchishin. Again. None. No. 73, Fris. Edit 75, Batenko. Don't insist. Amendment 86, Ivanchuk. Amendment number 87, Bilozer. Amendment number 90, Ivanchuk. 91, Puzanov. 94, Makarov. 95, Polyakov. 97, Vasilchenko. 98, Makarov. 101st, Slavicka. 112th, Batenko. 118th, Krasnosilski. 121st, Zmerenecki. 122nd, Polyakov. 123rd, Zmerenecki. 125th. 128th, Sumar. Are you insisting? Dear colleagues, if you'd like to invite the deputies into the hall, we'll finish the law review. The words are given by Sümar, 128 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u114	Colleagues, in this case, were talking about "The End of Positions" and especially about the fact that the NAMC members are supposed to be holding meetings, we're taking them down right now. But in the context of this, I'd like to draw attention to GNEU's observation on this NAZK Head-in-Charter who's going to be assigned for about a month and a half, but in fact, if the competition doesn't take place, it might take a lot longer. Thus, no qualifications are similarly assigned to this person. I think that, well, this situation is to some extent, it can create certain threats and corruption risks. And please note this at the end of the vote in this part of the duty-holder. Thank you. You don't have to put it to a vote right now. I'm filming.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u115	Thank you. 131st, Bilozer. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the rights to the bill. Please be prepared. The motive is Juršin Jaroslav Romanović. And please prepare for the vote. National deputies, please take your seats. Turn on the Yurchin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u116	So what I want to make clear is that now that we're voting off party funding, reducing party funding, we're actually pushing away political parties again, depending on the oligarchs. Given that this amendment is not accepted, given that the recommendations of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration are not accepted, which are essential and indicate that there are very serious violations in the law, our proposal is not to vote in general right now, but to refer to the second reading again. We can break a very effective mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u117	Everything? Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I am voting on a bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for preventing corruption (registration number 1029). The bill deals with second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support and vote. [[13:25:38]] For 237 Against 16, holding, 77. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 233, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 1, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 3. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine on certain matters of the functioning of authorized economic operators (registration number 1048). The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Law on so-called Authorized Economic Operators has been proposed to you for your second reading today. What kind of law is that? This is a law that allows legal persons who meet the criteria laid down in the law to obtain simplification of customs formalities. This will allow Ukrainian businesses to gain competitive advantages in the European Union market, above all, and simplify customs procedures. We worked on this bill on the committee and in the working groups, and we looked at the committee's case law, and all the right things were taken into account. And I'm here to avoid wasting my time, and I'm offering to go to those lines that weren't counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u119	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Let's move on to the law, to the bill. Edit number one, Bilkova. Don't insist. Amendment number two, Bondarev. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u120	Constantine Bondarev, "The Fatherland" faction. I propose that instead of the term "business" we use the term "resident of Ukraine." The definition of the term "business" is contained in the Ukrainian Code of Lordship and means a legal person. At the same time, the text of the bill provides that an authorized economic operator may be a manufacturer, exporter, importer, customs representative, carrier, dispatcher, warehouse keeper. Ukrainian legislation does not contain any restrictions on such actions, depending on their status as a natural person or legal person. Thus, formal customs brokers, usually natural persons, will not be able to obtain this status, which is their discrimination with regard to legal persons. In addition, my proposal is to harmonize terms with the universal international standard. In the framework standards of security and simplification of international trade procedures with the World Customs Organization, the term is used.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u121	Let me finish 10.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u122	The term "authorized economic operator" is used. The same definition is found in the EU Association Agreement. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u123	Let me finish for another 10 seconds and that's it, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u124	So I'm asking you to hear, you can't discriminate against individuals, and you can't use the wrong thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u125	Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Dear colleagues, I'm betting on the vote number two Bondarev. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u126	The name that we use in the law "authorized economic operator" is used for convenience to harmonize this name, this abbreviation with that used in the European Union. Besides, you and I need to adopt a law that is not what we want, but one that our foreign partners will accept so that all these rules are unified. That's why the same term "business" agreed with the European Commission is correct. Thank you. We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u127	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. I'm betting on the vote number 2 Bondarev. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:24]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next line number 3, Bondarev. Are you insisting? Yeah, but, fellows, let's bet in a minute, I can't. Time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u128	Okay, okay. It's very short. Indeed, this law refers to the definition of currency and currency transactions already set out in the Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act. So I made this amendment to refer specifically to the law and the definitions contained in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u129	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u130	We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u131	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the national MP Bondarev. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:24]] For-44 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 4, Bondarev. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u132	The text of the bill uses the term "unified customs receipt" but still does not reveal its essence. To date, the term “unified customs receipt” contains only two orders from the Ukrainian State Customs Service from 1998 and 2005. Thus, it is suggested that the content of a unified customs receipt be determined by law. Yes, I insist on voting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u133	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u134	You insist on defining the content of this ticket as a payment document, but it conflicts with the law on payment systems and remittances in Ukraine and causes fair complaints at the National Bank that regulates these relations at a legal level. We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u135	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number four of the national MP Bondarev. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:45]] For-25 The decision is not taken. No. 5, Belkova. Don't insist. 6. On what course will you insist? Not at all. Thank you very much. Edit 7, Bondarev. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the terms of this law and the terminology of this law have to match the terms of other laws that are regulated by economic rather than criminal law. Thus, instead of referring to the standards of the Ukrainian Law about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u137	Turn on the microphone. Why is the microphone turned off?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u138	So instead of referring to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Income (Laundering) by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction, I propose to use the Ukrainian Law on the National Bank of Ukraine, the latest edition of which, among other things, is in line with the IMF. I don't understand why we should frighten business subjects with such terminology and terms and references to such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u139	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u140	I'll explain why. The blank norm in part two of Article 4 is the GNEU requirement that we have considered. Indeed, such an editorial is more fully in line with legislation. So I'm going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u141	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Edit 8, Jujanina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, as in the previous law, which we have just considered in the second reading, is the conclusion of the General Legal Office for a bill prepared for second reading. And we also didn't consider on the committee the comments that are there. And it was the 8th amendment that I tried to make in the labor groups to prove that use. The collection, storage, use, dissemination of confidential information is contrary to part two of article 32 of the Constitution. And that personal data should be processed in a form that allows for the identification of the individual to whom they relate, no longer than is necessary for the legitimate purposes for which they were gathered. That's why I added to the use, the ability to process personal data: "during customs formalities." At the time, we did not have that expert opinion. So maybe right now, Mr. Danilo, you should consider it because it's us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u143	Let me finish. Ten seconds. Danilo Alexandrovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u144	I'll explain our position. We insist that the relevant information is collected not only during customs formalities but also during the authorization procedure of an authorized economic operator, which does not refer to customs formalities. And that's why we're proposing that we leave it in the order that it is and that we reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u145	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Are you insisting? Then I place the vote number 8 of the People's Deputy in the South. Please identify and vote. [[13:36:45]] For-28 The decision is not taken. Amendment number nine. Bondarev. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u146	This proposal seeks to harmonize terms with generally defined international standards. In the framework standards of security and simplification of international trade procedures, the term “authorized economic operator” is used. The same definition is found in the EU Association Agreement. In addition, authorization provides for the person’s passive right to observe the actions of another person to whom he has been authorized. Rather, authorization is a person’s right to perform certain functions of another person. One who delegates part of his mandate. And I think it makes more sense. Please accept my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u147	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Bondarev, well, there's no "U" in Latin. There's no y in Latin. And so to simplify the perception for foreigners of AEO words or abbreviations, we suggest that this is what it is. So it's not a question. It's a matter of convenience in the work of authorized economic operators. Thank you. We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u149	Do you insist on voting? You insist. Ladies and gentlemen, let's take a look. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u150	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u151	The committee's position is to reject. Dear colleagues, the number nine law enforcement officer, Bondareva. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:36]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next line is number 10, National Deputy Bondarev. Are you insisting? Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u152	Friends, I want to take my last steps and take my chances. Unfortunately, not only was I not heard but they wanted to hear me, not inviting me at all when I was looking at the committee and not hearing my opinion. I insisted on giving equal rights to individuals and legal persons. I insisted on the normal transformation of our legislation and the compilation of it with international law, but I was not heard. Sadly, that is the situation today. So unfortunately, my work is not accepted and I have no further comments because I have no support in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u153	Thank you. Does this mean that we can continue to miss your changes? You do not insist on supporting this amendment. Thank you. Next line is number 12, the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Is he insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u154	I'm asking you to make an 11th amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u155	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u156	Please place on confirmation the 11th amendment that has been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u157	I'm sorry, 11th Amendment. The word is given to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u158	Please put to the vote and determine, i.e. do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u159	I got it. Okay, that's the position. It's on approval number 11. In a position from the committee? You're the author of the 11th amendment, aren't you? Please. National MP Bilkov, I'm sorry, I didn't get a good look from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u160	Dear Sir, well, interesting developments. We spoke to you at the task force first, and I was told that she had been accepted. Next on the committee, I insisted on voting, and you supported me. And I got the support of all the committee members. Today you place your bets on confirmation. Please tell me, how can I then trust, well, our committee, that the opinions of minorities will at least be taken into account? Now essentially, it's an adjustment. I demand that automatic economic operators also be subject to monetary, monetary, and legal requirements. Export-import activities are directly related to this issue. And I realize that the authors failed to comply with the requirements in the 14th article, they did not reveal the concept, but this is not in any way relevant to my amendment. So, please, I'd like them to recognize that I'm right in fact, but the text today can't take this proposal into account. When we find ourselves in a situation where money is being exported from the country, we are actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u161	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u162	We're actually going to find ourselves in a situation where those companies that raise money don't report or return currency to Ukraine get court status as an automatic economic operator.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u163	Thank you. Please, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u164	It's hard to really argue that someone who violates monetary rules can't be an authorized or authorized economic operator. And that's the argument that we really took on the committee and on the committee we supported this amendment, taking it into account. However, this bill is not in line with either the text of this law, the bill that we are currently voting on, or the text of another bill on common transit. Moreover, it does not conform to the requirements or legislation of the European Union which does not contain this right. So I would really like to take your position into account, which is right, in the drafting of this bill and the bill on common transit, which we will definitely do in six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u165	Thank you. There's one, Danilo Aleksandrovich, it's the right thing to notice that you have to report to the committee's position, but you're asking for confirmation. There's a proposal for confirmation and determination. Please set number 11 to confirm. Please vote and determine. [[13:43:21]] For-49 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Let's move on. Next line is number 12, the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Are you insisting? Please. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, we are beginning a block of amendments that relate to the same initiatives that were expressed in the alternative bill. I then explained my position that special simplifications and benefits could not only be granted to an authorized economic operator but also to Ukrainian enterprises that could meet the criteria for a simplification and be so. Right after my first reading, I turned to the letter, which was supposed to give me an answer within 10 days to agree to these initiatives with the European Union Representation in Ukraine in order not to contradict the work we were working on. To this day the answer is neither intermediate nor final. So I think that it is the interests of ordinary Ukrainian economic entities that are not trying to account for the external economic activity here, so there is no reaction. And that's exactly what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u167	Are you insisting on your right? At the vote? Nina Petrovna, do you insist? You insist. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u168	Dear Nina Petrovna, dear colleagues, you and I can certainly write in the bill virtually anything we want and then vote for it. But at the same time, it's important that this structure that we're going to introduce to our partners fits into the mechanism that works in Europe. And if you look at the mechanism that works in Europe, they just went from one simplification to another to an authorized economic operator, and now they're working within an authorized economic operator. What we're going to do is we're going to start this concept, work with it. And then if it's successful, we can apply some simplifications to individual legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u169	Thank you. Nina Petrovna, are you insisting? Vote number 12. The committee's position is to reject. Please vote and determine. [[13:46:08]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Let's move on. Next line is number 13, the People's Deputy of Jujanina. Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Please give the floor to the national deputy of Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, we are now adopting a law that will definitely promote the monopolization of services in the external economic activity market. You just told the lie, Mr. Head, because there are certain simplifications in the European Union that still work. And if all the proposals we've made, you would also take the initiative and agree to the text with the European Commission, we would be speaking in other words right now. So I'm paying attention to everyone, and I'm talking about opportunities for our external economic activities. Our demands are now being ignored. We leave and create such a monopoly that even the brokerage office will be one or no one, which will be granted the status of an authorized economic operator. And so this whole middle-sized business that we have right now working on this market, we're denying us the right to continue operating in Ukraine. Because there will be uncompetitive conditions. Someone will be able to solve things very easily.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u171	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u172	I point out that we need not just to adopt this law, but also to make a mutual recognition agreement, that is, to make our European partners recognize this institution as existing in us. And I want to quote a letter from the European Commission. "The first simple reading of this text on the same simplification order to individuals has raised many concerns, as it completely changes the concept of an authorized economic operator as a reliable, safe trader in the international supply chain and not only. Questions relating to authorization, simplifications, advantages, the management of criteria are just some of the issues that raise serious questions." continue to follow the text. Let's move within that fairway that we have, not make a single enclave that might look good, but it doesn't work completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u173	Nina Petrovna, are you insisting? The vote is number 13 of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please vote and determine, please. [[13:48:47]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 14, national deputy Taruta and national deputy Bilkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u174	Belkova said you shouldn't put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u175	You don't have to? Then we don't put it. Let's move on. Next line is number 15, National Deputy Bondarev. We don't put it in, either, do we? Next. Amendment number 17, National Deputy of the South. Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, 16th, 17th, 19th, 20th and 21st Amendment. Head of the committee, you said that you would personally learn to comply with the current new accounting and financial reporting legislation. It is in these laws that the proper formulation of what we want to do is spelled out. Listen to me, but we can't if we agree on words that don't exactly fit Ukrainian legislation, we can't leave it in this special law, because it's kind of hard for us to agree with the European Commission on the right text. You sign under your inability to continue to work with the European Commission to reconcile our position, which corresponds only to the adopted laws that meet the Ukrainian Association Agreement with the European Union. So they certainly can't deny it here. You just didn't agree to this text with them in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u177	Dear Nina Petrovna, you may have a sin to complain about, especially with regard to this bill, about not counting your rights, because we are too many before the first. When working on the bill, they took your comments into account, correct comments. We've actually studied these revisions. And they found that the terminology you're proposing is unfortunately not in line with EU Regulation No 2446. And besides, we can talk to you about any revision, if you please. But in addition, they do not conflict with Ukraine's legislation, our legislation does not conflict with Ukraine's legislation. So we're going to suggest that we all reject them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u178	Are you insisting, Nina Petrovna? You insist. No. 17, Jujanina. Please identify and vote. The committee didn't support it. [[13:51:25]] For-45 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 18, Taruta. Don't insist. Edit number 19, Eugene. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u179	Dear Mr. Danilo, I'm addressing you. This is clearly in line with the adopted law, which we adopted two years ago and began to operate from October of last year. There can be no inconsistencies in the new order or why you said there can be no. Because we have adopted these laws in clear compliance with the EU Rules. Why are you saying this? It's just that you're in a situation where you're once again giving the control authority or the customs authority the opportunity to make a decision in this case. Because there's no chronological order of operations. What is it? How will you explain? There is no such thing in the new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u180	Committee position. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u181	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u182	Nina Petrovna, do you insist? Don't insist. Okay. Amendment number 20, Eugene. Don't insist. Amendment number 21. Tell me, which one will you be on next?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u183	So we've completed all the amendments that apply to the Bill of Accounting and Financial Reporting, and their committee didn't support them, but that's not a good word for it, because no one on the committee is expressing their opinion. And as for the next amendment, it's about subjects of social interest and medium-sized enterprises, which are defined by the Accounting and Financial Reporting Act in Ukraine, they all publish their reports with an audit opinion on the website. You see, we now give customs officers more rights than the auditors who have already confirmed the financial relevance of accounting and financial reporting. I wanted to help the customs authorities with this amendment, if there's a financial report that's published on the website and there's an audit opinion, then take it as a basis, consider it, because it's a higher qualification than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u184	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u185	I want to point out that on the committee, everyone gives their opinion freely, everyone who wants to make a statement says, first of all, from you, Nina Petrovna. And this amendment has a discriminatory nature with regard to enterprises that are not obliged to publish the reports you are talking about. We're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u186	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Thank you. Edit 23, Bondarev. Don't insist. No. 31, Jujanina. Don't insist. Edit 32 and 33, Eugene. Isn't everyone insisting? Which one? I can't hear you. Turn on the mic of Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u187	You've missed amendment 25 that's supposed to be taken into account essentially, but it's not really accounted for. Let's start 26th and 27th. 25th, can we look at it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u188	25th, essentially. It's a Southern. 26th, rejected. 26th, do you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u189	I can't find them anymore. Let's do the 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u190	27th. Are you insisting on 27th?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u192	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u193	See, this set of amendments concerns those procedures for assessing the ability and compliance of enterprises that have submitted applications for their identification by an authorized economic operator. So this amendment says that if an enterprise. If an inspector, a customs authority for carrying out procedures, goes to the company, it should be no later than 45 days after making such a decision. It's a purely anti-corruption amendment, so that we can make very clear the lines that should be made. And in order not to jump in line, since a very limited circle of those who could pass this procedure has been given that term. It's a purely anti-corruption norm. Please consider it and accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u194	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u195	It is appropriate to regulate these relations at the level of regulatory regulations. Nina Petrovna, we discussed this in the working groups. Thank you. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u196	Do you insist on voting? 31st, Eugene. Don't insist. 34th? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u197	I don't have time for you to go through the table. 31 corrections, please come back to her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u198	Nina Petrovna, then let's make it, with all due respect to you, but we're getting there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u199	I'm writing very quickly, so please consider people's speed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u200	Then you must know what you are doing. We go back to the same lines every time. 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u201	Listen, if you don't want to get to the bottom of what's so important about Ukraine's law, you don't have to look at the amendments in the hall at all, and then I'll try to do everything. As for monitoring criteria. Here, too, customs duties were not considered in the working groups of the committee. But when it comes to making decisions about monitoring, we didn't give the central apparatus the right to do certain things without the customs office, so to speak, to suspend the status of an authorized economic operator. I think we're putting a corruption component in places in customs that can, well, speculate on that standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u202	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u203	The amendment contains corruption risks. Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u204	Edit the number. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. Edit 34, Jujanina. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u205	Please tell me you just said that we're leaving corruption risks or something. I mean, you left the corruption risks on the spot. Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Let's move on. We also have the next chapter, "The Cost of Stopping Authorized Economic Operators." You can imagine it's a term. I'm sorry I stopped doing this confession. How much? gave the company a time limit for eliminating the mistakes or omissions he had made. How do you think his status could be restored? No information specified. So what I'm saying is, give me that term, if the company says it's solved all the flaws, in 30 days, they have to look at how this company worked. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u206	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u207	Decline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-02-m0.u208	Are you insisting, Nina Petrovna? Dear colleagues, 2:00 a.m., I declare closed the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I remind you that the evening session will begin at 4:00. Please don't be late.
