ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national MPs, apparatus, representatives of the media, guests of the Supreme Council! Request to prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:15:20.]] There are 394 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, a list of issues that need to be discussed and placed in the agenda, you have all received. Let's move on to the first question of the agenda. The issue of consenting to criminal liability, detention and arrest of Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovich. According to part three of article 80 of the Constitution. Dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall, dear colleagues. Thank you. In accordance with part three of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 27 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" the Supreme Council of Ukraine agrees to bring criminal responsibility, detention or arrest of a national deputy. My colleagues, please, you're very perceptive here. Thank you. The Supreme Council of Ukraine received the submission of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine Ryabosapka Ruslan Georgievic of consent to be held criminally liable, detained and arrested by the Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovich. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is conducting a pre-trial investigation, and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor’s Office, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, is a legal guide in criminal proceedings since 24.04.2019 on the signs of a criminal offence envisaged in part three of article 27 and part five of article 191 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at its meeting on 30 October, with the participation of the Attorney General of Ukraine, reviewed the submission of an agreement to bring criminal responsibility, arrest and arrest of national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovic. The findings of the committee, the explanation of the people's deputy Dubnevic and the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine were distributed to you on the registration tables in paper copies. Honourable National Deputies, a word for answers to questions from members of the MPs and groups, Ukrainian National Deputies, are given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ryabosapci, Ruslan Georgievic. It's set to 15 minutes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u2	Thank you. Good morning, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! As Attorney General of Ukraine, I supported the concern of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Judicial Investigation Authority, and the Head of the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine with regard to the submission of three motions to Parliament regarding the removal of parliamentary immunity, detention and the application of a precautionary measure in the form of custody for the national deputy Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. According to the investigation and the indictment, there is reason to believe that Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is involved in a series of crimes. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, as the national deputy of Ukraine for the seventh and eighth appeals, taking over the post of head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on transport matters, being aware of the financial situation of the public shareholders' association "Ukrainian Railway", her needs for public procurement, with full control, I will pay attention here to the distinguished national deputies, to the two subjects of management: the entity that produced the arrow crossings, the railway components, and the entity that purchased these parts - organized a scheme under which two companies, one of which is under the control of the people's MP, received an illegal income of 93 million dollars. And that's what this scheme was all about. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, as a national deputy and with the opportunity to influence the processes that took place in these two subjects of farming, which is confirmed both by the transcripts of meetings and by the testimony of witnesses, appointed two assistants on the public agenda, one of whom was the manager of the enterprise, who manufactures all the shooting moves, is the "Dnipropetrovské archery plant", the other assistant to Jaroslav Vasilovich Dubnevich, was the first deputy manager of the company to purchase these arrows. As a result, a scheme was set up that included two other companies that were completely redundant. And as a result, these two companies got a revenue of 93 million dollars. What is the evidentiary basis for this. I would like to pay attention first of all to the fact that this conduct has been under investigation for almost three years now, and about eight figures of investigation in this case have been completed. So the evidence to bring about the criminal responsibility of the 8 figures in this scheme is enough. Suspects have been identified, investigations have been completed, and figures are now familiar with the material of the case. After that, the case will be ready for trial. There is adequate evidence to bring responsibility and responsibility to the national MP Dubnevich, and for that we have addressed you with concern. What's the other evidence base I was going to talk about? Dubnevitch Jaroslav Vasilovich, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Transport, was constantly studying and analysing the financial situation of "The Crossroads" at the meetings of this committee and pointing out to the officials of "The Crossroads" and the Mini-Infrastructure the need for appropriate purchases and related work. One of the transcripts says that Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, listening to the representatives of the Mini infrastructure and the Crossroads, expresses dissatisfaction with the allocation of funds for the purchase of materials from the upper rail structure. Actually, these are the materials that appear in this diagram. So Dubnevich was lobbying for the allocation of money from the Crossroads budget just for the purchase of goods in his controlled businesses. The testimony of the witnesses is the former management of the Mini-Infrastructure, which confirms that Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich influenced the work of Pat "Ukrzalzliznica", his branch and enterprises through the subordinate officials of the designated owners. The company, one of the broker companies, the direct beneficiary of this company is Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich, and in fact this company has left with 86 million state funds that could have stayed in the budget of the Crucibles. This is confirmed by extracts from the State Register, where Dubnevich is considered to be beneficial owner of this company. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is very familiar with the family of the management of the Cruise Railway Company, which actually purchased these parts for the Cruise Station. In particular, the wife of the head of this branch of the Crucifixion Department works at the Transportation Committee. It was arranged there by Dubnevich. It represented the interests of this company, the beneficiary of which is Dubnevich, and this is confirmed by the minutes of the committee meeting and the decisions of the relevant courts, which are in open access. As I said before, Dubnevich has appointed his assistants on public policy: The Tarranca is the director of the PAT "Dnipropetrovské Arrow Plant", an enterprise that actually sold parts; and Pusharenka is the first deputy head of the branch of the "Centre of Production" "Urzalznice", which purchased these railway components. A gunman appropriately involved several individuals who were confirmed by a letter that had been removed. And that's what's in the protocols of the investigative investigation. The Audio Control materials of Pusherenko -- this is, I remind you, the head of the Crucifixion Company, who purchased the components -- were, in particular, marked the details that mattered to the investigation. On November 24, 2016, Pushkarenko confirmed that several companies investigated by NABU detectives, including the CROMAC Corporation, were actually the company that received 86 million dollars illegally, belonging to Dubnevich, and also called itself in relation to this company as "we producers of products and we are documented." Puskarenko also points out that if a company of the CROMAC, which belongs to Dubnevich, recognizes and pays for the damage suffered, it would be unacceptable for Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich. In addition, Pusharenko in these discussions makes it clear that Dubnevich is personally interested in solving the issues related to the CROMAC company, which was actually part of the scheme. The rifle in the conversation recorded in the minutes of the inexplicable investigation is a constant indication of the need to agree with Dubnevich that he can arrange a meeting with him, as well as the fact that they are linked and subordinated to Puskarenk Dubnevich. According to a forensic study conducted by the Kyiv Research Institute of Forensics, it is: firstly, the damage caused by the 93 million bracelets was caused by the damage caused by the construction of railway dams, and because of the fact that this scheme created two companies that had no bearing on the process. So the damage is confirmed in forensics. In this regard, we believe that the evidence to bring criminal responsibility to Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is sufficient. The trouble is well-founded, and we call on the Ukrainian Parliament to worry about agreeing to bring Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich to criminal responsibility and to arrest him and arrest him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u3	Thank you. Questions to the Attorney General. Please sign up. Better yet, if you don't mind, you can have the materials. Zupánin Andriy Viktorovich, Party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Attorney General, thank you for your report. I'd like to ask you. You spoke for the investigation that is being conducted against eight suspects. How do you appreciate the evidence base and, in fact, the case that you are presenting to us today regarding its possible representation and stand up in court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u5	As I said before, about eight figures, among them, it's the management of a company that's been selling parts for the Crossroads, and there's enough evidence for them to first present a suspicion, that's to bring criminal responsibility. And in order to complete the investigation of these individuals. So this case is actually ready for trial, and we appreciate the prospects of this case in terms of the prosecution as positive. At present, we are in the process of getting acquainted with the material of the case, which is all that keeps us from bringing the case to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u6	Thank you. Chigos Ahtem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u7	Please hand over Arieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u8	Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u9	Mr. Ruslan, I have a very simple question for you. We all know that in the Regulatory Committee, most of them belong to monofractions, the majority of them in the Supreme Council. I am now reading the conclusion of the committee on this point: there is no evidence, there is no evidence, there is no form of organized crime, there is no evidence of Dubnevish's development of the crime plan and so on. Please comment on the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u10	I cannot comment on the committee's decision because it is an organ of the Ukrainian Parliament, its decision. And we are not commenting on the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, but there is sufficient evidence to justify Dubnevic's guilt in committing this crime. The materials I brought with me, they add to the problem, they contain all the documents, all the testimony of the witnesses, even some of the deciphered protocols of investigative (search) actions, they confirm everything we refer to. If you've noticed. (if possible, I'll finish). Trouble consists of two parts. The first part is actually what we're into. What we claim to be a party to the charge. The second part is evidence that's been added and proven guilty. Why the committee made that decision, I say again, we can't comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u11	Thank you. The word is given by Sobolje's Sergey Vladislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u12	Your Honor, the Attorney General! I have questions. I understand that Mr. Dubnewich's key accusation is that, using his position as chairman of the Transport Committee, he created conditions for unlawfully obtaining funds. Do you know that today Parliament, if I'm not mistaken, will consider the sixth question of what the members of the Transport Committee have the right to share billions of dollars and determine where to send them in the regions directly to build roads. This bill is written by a member of the "Serve of the People" faction. Don't you see a dozen other things about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u13	Dear Sergey Vladislavovich, distinguished national MPs! The investigation is likely to give an assessment to all other bills. But I would like to point out that not every member of the Transport Committee has assistants on the boards, there's a head of the company that sells, and there's a manager of the company that buys the parts for the Crossroads. And not each of these helpers is directly under the control of the national MP. But if such circumstances have such signs, it is evident that there are signs of crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor. Time's up. There will be no time to answer, unfortunately. Well, I mean, you can ask questions. [[Noise Nodes]] Vote so early. [[B in m in s a l in]] So you're not acting like you're so confused? Dear colleagues, there will be more factions, you know the procedure, you're not the first time, you're not the first time in the room. Yes, and so does the Attorney General. Dear colleagues, let's give the floor to the national MP Dubnevich. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that a principle? No, no. Then it's over, time's up. Let's go. It'll be a faction question, a separate time to ask the factions, yes, to speak from the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Within the faction you will speak, I'm sure. [[B in m in s a l in]] The deputy of your head came to this, said that there were no more willing speakers. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Let's go to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Thank you, Ruslan Georgievich. Thank you. Ruslan Georgiyovich, please take your seats. The word for explanation is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Vasilovich Dubnevich. Thank you, Ruslan Georgievich. Jaroslav Vasilovich, time to 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u15	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We've all just heard what I'm trying to blame the NABU investigators and the Attorney-General, namely: I've been looking at the transport committee's meetings, as his head, the issues of crossroads; I've been informed of the financial plan of the Crossroads; I've been organizing and directing the procurement process for the purpose of acquiring 93 million dollars; I think I've been giving illegal instructions to people using the status of the National MP and the head of the committee. To my mind, this sounds absurd, especially when these statements are contained in a legal document agreed upon by the Attorney-General, not in a journalistic article for which it is a sensation. But before giving an explanation in fact, I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the PIC committee, which is given to you, unfortunately, a few minutes before the question begins, and therefore I'm not sure that you've had time to get acquainted with it. We found out yesterday more than three hours about the rationale, sufficiency and legality of submission, which led the profile committee to conclude that the submission did not contain any confirmation that: firstly, I had been given instructions and organized to conduct open-trade procedures; secondly, I had performed the task of organizing the crime and giving instructions on the development of the plan for controlled purchases, distributed functions among persons who had committed criminal offences and influenced the organization of open-trades; thirdly, I had no information to confirm that I had been instructed to prepare documents for the sale of the TAV "Argo" trade; fourthly, I had no information to support the reconciliation of the scheme of use between the Dnipropetrov plant and "Argo". The committee concludes that the criminal legal qualifications of my actions are not supported by evidence, evidence is missing and unproven, and that there is virtually no possibility of such acts being committed, without an objective side to the composition of the crime. I think the findings of the profile committee strongly suggest that there is no actual actual evidence of me committing a crime, that is. and the lack of reasonableness, the lack of submission and the lack of evidence. This is the conclusion of the Rules Committee, not my explanation. Conclusion: The submission was made to the Council for the sole purpose of political populism, which does not honor the Attorney General, the SAP and the NAB. Five times a draft application was submitted concerning me to the Attorney General for consideration. Four times they were returned, three times the previous Attorney General Lucenk and once in September this year by acting Attorney General Rybosapka Ruslan Georgievic. The fourth project introduced in September of this year is significant, but it was returned with Ryabosapka. Note that there is no difference between the fourth submission, which is not supported by Rybosapka, and the fifth submission, which is already supported by Henprocuror Rybosapka within a week. Of course, all I see is political ground. Despite my concerns and the requirements of the Rules, evidence of the evidence presented yesterday at the committee meeting was not even provided by the NABA, the SAP, and the Henprocurator’s Office. This made it impossible to determine whether they existed at all and whether they were talking about what was said or whether they contained evidence of the facts. Apart from the mounted NAB video that was shown on the committee and demonstrated at the committee meeting, the SAP was not given anything. Has my right to protection been violated? It was broken. The word "reasonable suspicion" implies the existence of facts or information to convince an impartial observer that this person has committed a crime is a definition given by the European Court of Human Rights. The evidence is evidence of facts, and the facts to be proved are organization, distribution and management of crime. Instead, it's filled with statements and references that seem to support them, but where am I? I didn't judge what I was being accused of. What is mentioned in the data is an assumption, as agreed by Henprosecutor Henprosecutor Rybosapka, who returned to the SAP the previous draft submission, which is exactly the same as the text of this present submission. I'm commenting on the submission, not the video mounted on the NABU order, which was shown on the regulatory committee. Now essentially. First. The report states that I used the status of a national deputy and committee head to exercise my occupation. I have a question: How? In the video, we saw that on May 13, 15, where I pointed to the necessary funding of the track, yes. That's what I'm saying. But under what circumstances and in the context of what conversation with the deputy minister of infrastructure? Before I said this line, I'd like to stress that this was the NABU manipulation, this was the Schulmeister speech, at the time the deputy minister of infrastructure, which he started by saying, "I'm asking for help." He said to the members of the Transport Committee, "Yeah, because you're something. What the "iron" is now, we're not going to roll out without help, that's for sure." Stenogram of the Committee’s meeting since 13.05 15 years ago. If you need it, you can read it fully on the committee website. With the same witnesses who testified that they all stressed the lack of funding for rail infrastructure, which led to the need to reduce the speed of movement, i.e. to increase the time around the wagons, i.e. to reduce the revenue of the Railroads. And these are the direct losses of the Railroads, I emphasize. That's why we on the Transport Committee have repeatedly raised the issue of "The Crucifixion". What, is it a secret for someone that cars drive, that passenger trains are delayed for an hour or more? And that's because the Crucifixion has some kind of managers who, instead of lifting the locomotives that have to work for the revenue of the Crucifixion and the infrastructure, buy towels, propellers, champagne and savants! What I see here as criminal is logical and legal. The committee's function is to improve the problem of the Crossroads, which. Ministers and managers from year to year, current members of the Transport Committee will repeatedly raise this issue on their own profile committee. Is it not absurd to assume that the head of the committee has an impact on the business sector, that is, an instruction that cannot be enforced? Then we must accept the axiom that the Head of the Committee of Legal Policy may instruct the Supreme Court, the Minister of Internal Affairs and so forth, the head of the Tax and Customs Committee to instruct customs to commit smuggling. And such absurd examples, by the way, can be cited in countless ways. The other one. It is said that I took part, assigned roles, and gave them illegal instructions, and guided crime. I have a question: where's the evidence? The submission does not contain evidence, and this is also the conclusion of the regulatory committee. Such submissions, mentioned by eight participants, are said to have given direction to three of them. But these individuals do not confirm this, and their appearances are not. There's no other evidence, no evidence of writing and no evidence of anything. You know, it's actually a very creative position in the investigation -- all potential witnesses are transferred to the status of suspects, so that they can rule out possible evidence that doesn't match the position of the investigation. That is to say, these people were disgraced early; their objective testimony was not taken into account by the court. The whole logic of the investigation is based on the presumption of guilt and the effort for any falsified and fabricated facts to fabricate the case. Yeah, I've been seeing my assistants for years, but I haven't had the kind of conversation I've been assigned to. And the main question is, why would I do that? The investigation and Henprocuror alleges that I've allegedly arranged for the acquisition of money through the open-trade process. I emphasize: open trades by procedure! However, the evidence, even for those mentioned in the data, confirms that the procedure is initiated in response to the need for a Cruise Station. The Crucifixion in this product, I don't influence the formation of the need. The order established by the internal orders of the Crossroads and the State Procurement Act. It is false that the annual plan for the purchase of the branch did not provide for this purchase, page 47. A reliable version of this plan was drawn up in December 2015, and I gave it to the committee yesterday, and Henprocuror did not deny it. Four. That the price overstatement is neither real nor proved by any evidence. The application refers to a trade-off expertise that proves the marketability and economic validity of the price of the winner of the trade. The price is determined by the open trade procedure. The findings of the economic experts referred to by the Henprocurator do not prove that they are excessive, nor do they prove that they are causing damage. As far as I'm concerned, it's an illegal choice of open-sell procedure instead of a negotiated procedure. I'm not going to comment in detail, but I'm only going to focus on two facts. The first is that buying one participant in a negotiation procedure is not a competitive procedure, unlike open trade, and it doesn't apply to Crossroads. Two: the materials confirm that procedural purchases along with the T.O. "Argo" participated in an enterprise that is a dealer of another Ukrainian manufacturer, the "Kerchen Arrow Factory", a Ukrainian enterprise that was then entitled to take part in 2015-2016. Third, there are no decisions by the competent authorities of the AMC or the court that the Crucifixion violated the procedure defined by law. So it's not possible to talk about the absence of other manufacturers except the day-old factory. To sum up, I would like to draw attention to the conclusion of the Rules Committee, which concludes that the criminal and legal qualifications of my actions are not supported by evidence. There is no evidence, no evidence is given, no actual possibility of doing so, no objective side of the crime scene. I think the above arguments strongly indicate that the prosecutor is prejudiced, that there is no actual actual evidence of me committing any crime. I claim that I did not participate or do what I was suspected of. I affirm and guarantee that in these alleged risks of my possible concealment from the prosecutor, the judicial investigation body, the investigating judge or the court are unfounded. I don't intend to hide and I don't intend to use any of my capabilities. I will prove my innocence in the order established by law. I hope that the Supreme Council will demonstrate compliance with the rule of law, the rule of law, the presumption of innocence, and not repeat methods that condemn and enforce political settlement by the hands of the law enforcement agencies, playing with them in the soles. Therefore, honourable national deputies, when making a decision, please consider the quality of the evidence and the availability of the application, rather than being guided by the media clichés and labels that skillfully accompany the event. And I'd like to stress it to you. You, my honourable fellow MPs, will vote on three rulings. The first decision is to remove the inviolability. I myself will vote in favour of this decree because I have voted and have always stressed that MPs should not be untouchable. As for the second, third, decrees, you, your esteemed colleagues, be determined. Look not at the video and not the stories, the information stories, but look at the conclusions of the committee and the regulatory committee, where most of them are the monotony of yours, where the head of the majority, and vote, after that, vote as your conscience tells you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u16	Thank you, Jaroslav. To announce the conclusion of the committee, the Committee on Regulatory, Deputy Ethics, and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich, is given the head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u17	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, Regulatory Committee at yesterday's meeting, discussed three motions for consent to be brought to the criminal responsibility of National Deputy Dubnević Jaroslav Vasilovich, on granting the consent to detain Dubnević Jaroslav Vasilovic and on granting the right to vote in respect of the People's Deputy Dubnevich in the form of a precautionary (arrest) which was supported and submitted to Parliament by the Prosecutor-General. In order not to repeat what has already been said by the Attorney-General, you have your conclusions, I will just say that during the examination of the application, a statement was given to the Attorney-General and his proposal was reviewed, an audio recording of the indiscretions of the search was heard, and the national deputy Dubnevic and his lawyer Peluk were heard. After discussing the application, the committee adopted the conclusions. The conclusions you have in which the committee considers that all three applications for consent to the criminal responsibility of National Deputy Dubnević Jaroslav Vasilovich, for the approval of the detention of Ukrainian National Deputy Dubnević Jaroslav Vasilovich and for the approval of the election of the National Deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Jaroslav Vasilovitch, for a precautionary measure in the form of detention (arrest) initiated by the Deputy Attorney General, the Head of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office of the Netherlands on 11 October 2019, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Procurator-General of the Ryobashap on 17 October 2019 are legal, as they are initiated, supported and submitted by the relevant subjects of the Rules of Procedure for the second section of Article 80 to the Constitution. The committee also made a number of observations on the motivational part of the findings regarding the availability and justification of applications, the legality of obtaining the evidence indicated in the submissions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please sign up for the factions and groups. Fedina Sofia Romanovna. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u19	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Dear journalists! You know, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" is a national and a consistent political power, so I would like to say right now that we're going to support the removal of parliamentary immunity. And I would like to remind you that the law on the removal of parliamentary immunity, which will take effect in a few weeks, was initiated by the President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko, if anyone forgot about it. But I would like to say that not all the national MPs today, unfortunately, have been given a decision by the Regulatory Committee, in which, I would like to remind you, the vast majority of the members of the committee represent the faction "Serve of the People." I quote this decision, and I quote the text given to the people's deputies: "It should be noted that there is no evidence and no evidence is given. No authorization is available, no actual possibility is missing, no objective side of the crime scene. ” This is a committee decision voted yesterday, which has studied all these things in detail. But I'd like to say why it's all organized today, why it's organized as a show, as a political show. This is to distract attention from total failures on the international track. You see what happened in the last few days: the retreat of the Ukrainian forces, the failure in the Danish direction, the failure in the direction of the United States, where, thanks to incredible efforts now, including the opposition, two-party support is supported and destructively hit. Look at what's going on with Hungary's position that's lost right now in the last few weeks. In the Czech Republic’s position, look at the statements made by the Czech leadership. The country's NATO leadership statements need only one thing: to confirm that Ukraine's leadership is leading the country to NATO, to confirm this, so that it does not happen, as in 2010, when Yanukovic turned the country from NATO. What are they doing now, like Yanukovich? Are you afraid of the Kremlin and Putin? The Ukrainian army of Putin and the Kremlin are not afraid, the Ukrainian volunteers Putin and the Kremlin are not afraid. Why is Ukraine’s present - day authority afraid of the Kremlin and afraid to confirm Ukraine’s desire to become a full member of NATO? That's exactly what Mr. Kuleba said, that's exactly what the country's senior management said. So, honourable colleagues, a political show a few weeks before the deputation of parliamentary immunity that starts working on January 1st is just a way of distracting attention. And with regard to the committee's decision, I would like to quote again: "The evidence is missing and there is no evidence that there is no objective aspect to the composition of the crime." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u20	"The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u21	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! According to article 218, parts of the third Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the submission of consent to be brought to criminal liability, detention or arrest of a national deputy should be motivated and sufficient, containing concrete facts and evidence that confirm the fact that a person is subjected to a socially dangerous act defined by the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The detention or arrest statement should clearly justify the need for detention or arrest. After familiarizing ourselves with the materials provided by the Attorney-General and us as members of the Regulatory Committee and myself, these materials were made available two weeks before the issue was discussed, as well as yesterday when we examined all these issues at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, we did not hear sufficient evidence of the charges against the People's Deputy Dubnevich Jaroslav. On my question is whether the National Deputy Dubnevich will be evading the investigation, whether he will be hiding from the investigation, under the camera, in the presence of the Attorney General and the Head of SAP, National Deputy Dubnevich said, "No, I will not hide, I will act in accordance with the laws of Ukraine." Therefore, based on the foregoing, "The Opposition Platform for Life" will not support the submission of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Dear Dimitri Alexanderovich, I ask you now to give the floor to the National Deputy Illy Kiwi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u22	Considering you haven't been able to ask a question, 30 seconds, for a question and a minute, for the Attorney General's answer, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u23	How much?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u24	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u25	30 seconds. Okay. Mr. Attorney General, I have a very important question to ask you, which was asked by the residents of Odessa. People are very upset about your position on the case of Sternenko's killer, which you didn't bring to the end, but you're "driving" into the Ukrainian Security Service, where she's been hiding for two years. They ask, ‘ What happened to you when a murderer took the life of a father of three children? ’
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u26	Let's, colleagues, ask questions on the subject of discussion. Ruslan Georgiyovich, in a minute. Turn on the D.A.'s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Head, I understand that today we are looking at a motion to remove the intrepidness of the national MP completely different, and the question of Sternka is not the subject of Parliament's consideration, just so that we don't take up the time of the honourable national MPs, I think at other times. I answered that question enough on both the committee and publicly. I don't see the point in spending time on this again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u28	Thank you, Ruslan Georgievich. The Lozinski Roman Mikhailovich, the Voice faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Sergey Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u30	Sergey Ivanovich Rahmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone in this room has any doubt that the Supreme Council has never been, is not, should not be, or will not be, a lawyer, a prosecutor or a court of law. To this end, according to the Constitution and the law in force, there are competent authorities to deal with it. Secondly, I would like to remind you that according to the procedure that we agree on today, it is only possible for the appropriate authorities to deal with certain actions in court regarding the person we are considering. Third. I will remind you, those who have forgotten that under applause in this room, by constitutional majority, the Supreme Council has voted to abolish parliamentary integrity and there have been no objections to this norm being wrong, unfair, offensive or punitive. On the other hand, yesterday (and I remind you) the bills that extended this process, which actually completed the process of inviolability, were not voted on, and today there are calls that what is going to be done today by the Supreme Council are punitive measures. Let's try to be honest with the voters and with ourselves. If you feel that the abolition of parliamentary immunity was a premature and wrong step, let us introduce the relevant bill and make changes to the Constitution. If you think it was right, let's be consistent. And the last and most important. I sincerely hope that the Voice faction will happen, and I hope that the entire Supreme Council hopes that the change of approach in the work of the Attorney General's Office will take place not only by changing the name of the GPU to GPU, but also by changing approaches. And that's why the charges that were made today by the Attorney General's Office and the deputies, and yesterday by the profile committee, are absolutely fair. And while we're not trying to replace ourselves with the Attorney General's Office, or as the Attorney General's Office is now said to be, we're once again hoping that this body will finally be able to handle the responsibilities placed on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u32	Thank you. Tkachenko Maksim Mikolaiovich, deputy faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u33	Good afternoon! Ask Andrew Motovilovtsa to give the floor to his colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u34	Andrew Volodymyrovich Motovilovac.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I am Andrew Motovilovac, the "Serve of the People" Party, and I am witness to Mr. Dubnevich's political corruption. During our work at the Ministry of Infrastructure as the advisor to Pivovarsky Andrija Mikolaiovich for the adoption of the law by the Transport Committee, we were given the appointment of a person to Lviv Airport. You can see now that we've dropped this requirement, we've held an open competition. You can see the Lviv airport. You can see how many took off and how he changed. Now we're not talking about family, we're talking about political corruption. Either we stop it, or it continues. We've changed the President, we've changed the Supreme Council, and I'm asking you to change the Dubnevich monopoly to the Crossroads. Give public enterprises a chance to develop in a transparent way. Give the employees of state enterprises a chance to see that we are ending political corruption. I ask you, our party today to vote in favour of these three issues, it is very important. This is proof that we are ending political corruption. It's freedom for our ministers to make decisions. This is the end of the political business: going to the Supreme Council, assigning their ministers, assigning their people to state-owned enterprises, and getting the money for it. Business must be free without politics. Politicians should adopt laws, not influence public enterprises. I ask you to support all three questions and give the Attorney General the right to exercise his authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u36	Thank you, Andry Viktorovich. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u37	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! Well, the Rules Committee's findings are already known to the entire Supreme Council and the whole country. That, in fact, there is no evidence of Dubnevitch, there is really no reason to believe that he committed crimes. Some, in an undetermined place, undetermined persons did something about it and so on. But I want to go to all the majors who are here. Who really works in the district knows that dozens of businesses are located in the districts and are constantly addressing you with their problems. Problems in relations with the state, problems with the state's tendering and so forth. And you all go to businesses, to the government, so that the Ukrainian industry has support, so that they don't buy foreign industrial products, so that farmers have support, and so on. You all work on committees. Is it possible to count you as corrupt or not because you only refer to public authorities? Anyone working on a committee knows practically everyone in the field that the committee refers to. And so you can blame everyone for being corrupt. But what is really going on? Why is such a procedure under way today? And it happens because, just a few weeks ago, our MP group refused to vote in favour of the bill on the so-called reform of the courts of Ukraine, the Supreme Court and other courts. This is the fifth pseudoreform. Then these terrorist things went off and started pointing at the shooting of one of the deputies in order to force all of us, and then you, to be obedient. Why are they obedient? Because further votes are at stake. Voting on IMF guidelines for the sale of Ukrainian land to foreigners, for the sale and sale of large industries, for the great privatization of the most powerful, profitable Ukrainian state-owned enterprises. And here it takes everyone to be handmade to show today what can be done with a deputy, even when the committee shows and says that there is no component of the crime, there is no evidence, there is no circumstance for him to be arrested and held accountable today. He's willing to take off the touch, go to court and prove it. But I want you to understand why this is happening. Because Ukraine wants to be transformed completely, it's turned into 10 years to get credit, sell out everything that's possible, and do it with your hands to be obedient. And this demonstration shot for you, first of all, for the MPs from the dominant faction. So think about what you should do — vote or not. Intactness can be recorded, he asks that he go prove it in court. But to make an arrest immediately to make everyone obedient before important votes, I don't think it's a method of new power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u38	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, let us not manipulate what the committee has accepted. I'm going to give the committee's head a word right now, because what's going on in the hall today is a reference to. There's no evidence. The committee is not a court, it does not find evidence, it only makes decisions about the appearance of the Attorney General. I'll be right there. Wait, please. I'm going to give the committee's head one more word. I would like to draw your attention to this and to the distinguished media representatives who are now in the room to hear the committee's position clearly. Please turn on Calchenko's microphone. Dear colleagues, please listen to us all so that we are not victims of deception.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed proud of the work of our committee: two of the three conclusions were adopted yesterday unanimously, the third conclusion was confirmed by 9 votes in 11 members. Now look, and I'm really sorry that the text that's being taught is just being manipulated. I'm drawing your attention to the arguments that have been made. 11 page of the Committee’s conclusion, paragraph 3 below. In the explanations of the people's deputy Dubnewich. The National MP gave his explanation. And then all of the things that seem to be attributed to the conclusion of the regulatory committee are the quotes from the explanations of the people's deputy Dubnevitch. And then I'm going to do it again for the third time. The explanations of the people's deputy Dubnevitch state that all the evidence given in the statement - no evidence in their reasoning - all the statements made in the statement are not based entirely on evidence, none of the statements made about the specific circumstances, the actions of the specifics are based entirely on evidence. This is not the position of the regulatory committee, this is a quote from the explanation of the people's deputy Dubnevic. Then read, "I say." "I declare," not the committee says, but "I declare," and that's the continuation of the quote, the quotes are not closed. Next. "The expert's statement of loss is missing." This is the position of the national deputy Dubnewich, who has resounded today. Next. The damage to Pat's Crossroads isn't done, and the content is deceptive. This is the position of the people's deputy Dubnevic, not that of the regulatory committee. No evidence has been added to add to the submission that Dubnèvích was overstepping his mandate. This is the position of the distinguished national deputy Dubnewich. As far as criminal justice is concerned, Dubnevich's actions are being qualified. This is also the position of Mr. Dubnevich and his lawyer, who was called to the attention of the committee yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u40	Sergei Vitaliyovich, I'm sorry, there's not much time. Once again, if I may, the committee's conclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u41	The conclusion of the committee is that the submission is legal, since it is initiated, introduced by the right subject. The committee made some comments on the validity, and they were highlighted by text. And all that is attributed to the position of the committee is the position set out in the MP's written explanations. Here they are before the paws are closed. You can check and verify with the authentic text the explanation of Deputy Dubnevich himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speeches by the National Deputies. The schedule is up to nine minutes. Bužanski Maksim Arkadyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the distinguished presidency, there is former President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, whom three quarters of Ukrainian citizens consider a marauder and a criminal. He, who is the author of the Law on the Removal of Deputy Inviolability, is disgracefully avoiding interrogations, hiding behind the remains of this inviolability. That's where the Attorney General Rybosapka promised us all when we supported his candidacy as Attorney General, that he would call for the responsibility of the first persons of the state and of the former authority. What do we see? We can see that he's about to be given a deadline to show some results. But he's clinging to the Dubnevitch thing that is, but it's not the first thing that matters. It's an attempt to mislead us. I believe we must now remove the touch from Dubnewich. But personally, I am not prepared to assume the functions of the court and decide whether or not I can arrest him or arrest him. I don't think there's enough evidence for that. And I think that all that's going on right now is for the Attorney General of Ryboshapka to demonstrate that he's doing something to enable former President Peter Prashenko, here he is, to continue to hide behind the parliamentary inviolability. I'm asking you to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u44	Irina Volodymyrna's character. The potterenko Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u45	Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends, first of all, you've been in power for six months. What are you complaining about? That you're missing something? Six months. Please check--check everyone, bring them all in. For six months now, 10 percent of your term has been served by your president. Six months out of five. All of it. Stop talking about "foreigners," that's sick of everybody. Give some results to the people. Where are the results? So first of all, I want to address the Head of the Supreme Council. I'm sorry, but we still have the Rules and your last name is not the Rules. You cannot decide for yourself when there is time on the board, you have, you have to give the word. You can't think how long the answer will last, it's none of your business, it's none of your business. And you have to give your word. And it is not as easy to get the word in our country as it was today. You know, I'll tell you, there's taboo, and taboo is to follow the Rules and not break it. I'm talking to you. Now about the substance of the submission and about our decision to our faction. The European Solidarity faction supports the removal of parliamentary immunity, has always supported and today we will vote in favour of this decision. Everyone has to answer to the law. There are no masters and hoops in the country, there should be no such thing. Yet, when you mislead people, including the committee. I took the committee's opinion on this, it's all yours, colleagues. We were just told that there are no comments. How's that? I'm reading, please. "The committee came to a conclusion," there's a Ryeboshapka, da-da-da, "part two." "and expressed a number of observations, which were noted in the motivational part of the conclusions on the adequacy and justification of submission, the legality of the receipt of the evidence indicated in the application." Isn't the "Serves of the People" the majority on this committee? Then tell me, who? You made that decision, and you gave it to us. And when we quote it today, you say it's not true, you don't like it here. I would like to remind you, dear friends of our greatness, that you promised people a mandate for buttoning. No one put it down. You promised people that the Supreme Council would only deal with matters of the Supreme Council, you know, I won't even tell people what they're not doing here, and nobody's responsible for anything. You told people we'd have some justice. You are now talking about the transport committee in 2015-2016. I want to tell you, now the transport committee under your leadership has appointed an out-of-office advisor to the president of the MAU airline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u46	Ten seconds, but you mentioned the deadline.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u47	Who worked for the MAU for 26 years. You don't want to, Mr. Attorney General, investigate why we have a monopoly on one airline and no one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u48	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u49	Good afternoon, colleagues! Literally more than two months ago, 80 percent of the room was not chosen for luxury to be higher than other Ukrainian citizens. Is it possible for other citizens to obtain a Supreme Council decision before a court decision? No, it's not. Is there a procedure for other Ukrainian citizens to obtain permission from the investigating authorities to carry out investigations? No, it's not. And we promised that we would be equal before the law, citizens of Ukraine and national MPs who are no better and no worse than other Ukrainian citizens. We promised to undo the inviolability, so today, three votes are the answer to the question of whether we're ready to cancel the inviolability. Do not be misled by decisions made in the past by calling on the Supreme Council, which has easily overturned the inviolability. And yet, no one else answered, no decisions were made. Don't prevent the investigating authorities and the judicial authorities from doing their job, and they'll do the wrong thing -- they'll do the right thing politically. You want to answer politically, interfere with the investigation and the judicial authorities. And the last. Fellow members of the law enforcement committee, cancel the intrusiveness in general, stop discussing how to do this. This has to be a dot. Otherwise, we will be forced to listen to such shows every time an MP commits a crime or suspects a crime. We're not investigating bodies to determine whether we're right or wrong, but we need to create conditions for investigators and judicial authorities to do so. So vote like you're Ukrainian citizens, not vice-deputy. Don't hide! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u50	Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u51	Slavic Antonini, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u52	It's Slavic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I think all the factions have already had the opportunity to read the documents of the Attorney General's Office and make a choice for themselves, in fact, how will they vote? But I would like to dedicate my presentation to another subject that I believe will unite at least the women of our parliament. As you know, yesterday, we all witnessed the situation: the unprofessional, disgraceful conduct of a man who leads the Committee in foreign affairs, and in fact, the indignation of this man is caused, not by the conduct of this man, but by a herd of lies that followed in justification for this behavior. In fact, I believe that the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs should identify diplomacy and represent us in the international arena. And in addition, I believe that the faction that has delegated him to this committee includes many women who can take their place, professional and worthy. So we're going to initiate the question of recalling the committee head, because we don't see any reaction from the faction he represents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u54	Thank you. Time's up. Time, time, time. Zero, zero. [[Noise Nodes]] Colleagues, we're going to have Stoltenberg today. I think it would be better if we went to such a debate after that, after that. We have a question, we have another question. Colleagues, let's move on. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one in order. To conclude, the word is given to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ryabosapci, Ruslan Georgiyovich. Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, literally two aspects of the crime itself, very briefly. There are two companies, the directors of these enterprises, the assistants of the National MP. According to an expert, these two companies had to make a purchase agreement between each other, without two sheets, this was written in the conclusion of the court expert. As a result of the instigation of two tracts, the state suffered 93 million damages. These documents, in the open state registers, under the control of the people's deputy Dubnevich, are public information. With regard to the influence of the people's deputy Dubnevic on these contracts, I'm just going to re-read the protocol of the investigative investigation, where the manager of one of the enterprises that purchased these parts says he can't sign a contract on the extension of the production of the factory and says that another factory manager is going to call Dubnevich himself on this issue. I don't understand why managers of enterprises that are independent of the head of the transport committee should call the head of the transport committee and ask him to agree to a contract between two state-owned enterprises. That's basically two words that's pretty simple about everything that's been going on. And you can decide why the state lost 93 million dollars here, and how quickly we can get them back to the state with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u56	Thank you. Jaroslav Vasilovich, please. Dubnevich Jaroslav Vasilovich is invited to conclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u57	Dear fellow national MPs! There are two companies: NABA as a public authority and a Biocerkow factory that manufactures bicycles for cars. And there's a simple question: why is ProZorro buys bicycles in dealers for its cars and bids, buys linings 60 percent more expensive than the Biocerkow factory, the Ukrainian manufacturer? Next question. It's for you to think about. Next. There was a colleague, a national deputy, who was in his time an assistant minister of finance. Minister of Pivovarsky Infrastructure. So I'll tell you all why I showed y'all. Schulmeister. Because Shulmeister, as the first deputy minister of infrastructure, first failed to have the Lviv airport performers represent Kaufman and Granowski's Odessa, and then wanted to break open the competition and claim the truth and lies again. And we and the deputies from the country said, "In you, man!" And that's why the open competition took place, and Tetjana Romanovska is now running Lviv Airport, and Lviv Airport is showing some of the best results. The next question I showed Shulmeister and Beermaker was "Wo!"that's when they wanted two bills on a special road fund to go, first, it's the distribution of roads that crashed, how many public roads there would be, and how many local roads, and the second bill is the second law on financing local roads and state roads. Thus, the law on local roads, the financing of roads and roads were not available, and the first law had already been prepared, the allocation of roads, and the second reading. And I told them as chairman of the committee that I would call off this law until there was a road financing law, because there was nothing to pass on to local governments without proper funding. Both honor and thanks to the previous Transport Committee for what they listened to and the colleagues of the previous call listened, and we voted in parallel with two laws. And the Special Road Fund Act is now working and showing good results. Thank you for your attention. 15 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u58	Yes, add 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u59	Thank you all for your attention. You have to be sure. And, Mr. Chairman of the Transport Committee today, I understand that you're bringing experts and experts into the Transport Committee, and I have done the same. But, look, honourable deputies, especially majorists, so as not to be inserted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u60	Thank you, Jaroslav Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consenting to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovic. Please prepare for the vote. The attraction, the attraction to criminal responsibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "no"? It's about consenting to criminal liability. It's a removal of the MP's in touch, your honor's colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll sound it again, dear fellows. Corresponding to the article. Quiet in the hall then, because then, you know, third time, fifth. Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part seven of article 221 of the Ukrainian Law on the Supreme Council Rules, raises the question of granting consent to the criminal responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovich. That's a shot. I just called you an article. Pick it up. This is a removal of the touchiness. Dear colleagues, you're not the first time in this room. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:30:11]] For 332 Decision taken. I'll put the next question to the vote. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the question of consenting to the detention of Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovic. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:30:55]] For 241 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 220, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 19, "non-fractional" - 2. I'll put the next question to the vote. In accordance with article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 221 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine puts to the vote the issue of consent to be elected as regards the Ukrainian national deputy Dubnevic Jaroslav Vasilovich of the precautionary measure of detention (arrest). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:31:52]] For 229 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. "Serve of the People" – 208, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 19, non-fractional – 2. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that today we will have guests in the Supreme Council, namely Jens Stoltenberg. And he'll be speaking to us in a meeting. It's going to happen. [[B in m in s a l in]] I think it might be in the towers to do that. Dear colleagues, I suggest you proceed to your consideration of the matter. After that, if you don't mind, we'll take a break for our guest's performance. Next offer. We need, as we agreed with the factions and groups, to build our work as follows: we're going to take a break from 12 to 13, and then we're going to continue our work from 13 to 14:30. I have a question: should I vote? Yeah. Let's vote that we don't have to go through with this. Dear colleagues, I propose to vote in favour of the above-mentioned changes to our work as part of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. Stop! Stop! Wait a minute. Wait. I will. Wait, stop. So once again, we're taking a break from the 12th to the 13th, from the 13th, not until the 14th, but by 2:30, and then from 2:30 to the 16th, and then we're going to work as determined by the Supreme Council, but it's going to be a little bit later. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal I just made. Please support and vote. [[11:34:29]] For 303 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. You have been proposed a draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities (registration numbers: 108-P, 108-P1, 108-P2). The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanni Orestovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I would like to remind you that on October 16, 2019, this Supreme Council passed a decision to adopt an entirely disgraceful bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities (number 1008). First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council, the Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, expressed numerous observations of a systemic nature to the bill and recommended that it be re-readed for a second reading. And I believe that the bill could not have been voted on as a whole, and it was a gross violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Secondly, this bill violates my colleagues, and I remind them where we're going. We said we were going to Europe. The bill violates the law of the European Union, violates the principles of the Council of Europe, violates the independence of the judiciary. And you and I, as deputies and Head of the Supreme Council, have received the appropriate letters from the Head of Mission of the European Union Mission in Ukraine, from the Head of Representation of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in Ukraine, from the Ambassadors of Canada, Britain and Germany. By law, in fact, by voting on this decision, we are. No, not we, but you, who have abused the Ukrainian judicial system, have come to a confrontation with our European colleagues, with Canada, and you are taking away our European future in Ukraine, although, again, I remind you, you are declaring European integration as a priority. I think there are enough arguments to think back, correct your mistake, and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u62	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u63	and now vote in favour of rejecting this disgraceful bill. And I suggest we wait for the Venice Commission to come to a conclusion and then work out this law and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, I give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. No Michael Mikolaiovich? Well, there's no report. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u65	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected journalists, respected Ukrainians! You know, when we're talking about judicial reform, one thing is what they're showing on TV, and what they're looking at is people watching TV, and the other thing is what those who have encountered the judicial system are thinking after this reform. Did they fix everything there? Was everything okay there? Of course not. Because these things aren't done in a month or two. But the research conducted by independent sociological agencies, along with our foreign partners, I mean not only USAID, but also others, have confirmed that trust and satisfaction in the judicial system among lawyers and those citizens of Ukraine who have personally encountered the judicial system in recent years has increased significantly. That's why I'm asking you to support this decision today, because the bill, which was voted by the majority of the "Serial of the People" faction, is really alienating us from the European future. He is, indeed, ensnaring the independence of the judicial system. But in addition to that, with regard to the decision that I have made, I would like to draw attention to another question. This is a determination regarding respect. Dear colleagues, right now, I remember a lot of interviews from the People's Servants here in Parliament, and I'm looking at your faction: you're not listening at all, you're talking, you're having conversations, you're standing in the back of the lobby where your representatives are sitting. But when it came to the issue of the Supreme Court, the Head of the Supreme Court did not even have the right to speak. One minute, that's a replica, that's not a performance. Read the Rules, and it clearly states that the Head of the Supreme Court is entitled to a guaranteed address in the Supreme Council. So I ask you to support the decision and stop the disgrace that you, unfortunately, voted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u66	Thank you. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u67	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! On October 17th, the Regulatory Committee, at its meeting, discussed the draft Decree No. 108-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of October 16 on the adoption of Law 1008, which is proposed to repeal the law in view of the violation of the draft law in the second reading and the adoption of the relevant decision. And in a written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council, the authors note that the draft Law does not comply with European Union law, the recommendations of the Council of Europe. However, the drafters did not refer to the chairman of the plenary meeting on violations established by the Rules of Procedure during the consideration and vote. On the following day, October 17, following the registration of the draft, the authors made a written application, although the draft decree and written application were to be submitted simultaneously in accordance with article 48, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the Rules. Therefore, the Regulatory Committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to decide how to vote on acceptance or rejection. In addition, following the submission of alternative projects -- that's 1008-P2, 1008-P1, the regulatory committee considered them yesterday at the meeting and made the same decision: invited Parliament to determine how to vote on the adoption or rejection of the bill. Including with respect to 1008-P2, the committee noted that the initiating national MPs did not refer to the chairman at the plenary meeting to violate the procedure established by the Rules during the consideration and voting of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote on these three projects. I'm asking you to take your seats, and I want to remind you that the position of the committee was to determine the hall. That's why I'm going to put it on the arrival number. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to take your seats. And I am putting to the vote the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the activities of judicial authorities, project 1008-P (deputy). Please vote and determine. [[11:44:07]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Others. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 6, "Resistance Platform" – 12, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fatherland" – 13, "For the Future" – 6, "Voice" – 12, "non-fractional" – 3. Thank you. I am betting on the next draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2019 on the adoption as a whole of Ukraine's law of the draft Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities, Project 1008-P1 (Deputy). Please vote and determine. [[11:45:03]] For-64 For those who were late, there was no discussion because there was no Mr. Papiev in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because you didn't want to talk about it. Dear colleagues, the next decision has come. [[B in m in s a l in]] Again, do you insist on discussing yours? All right, your honors, we're just going to have our colleagues now who are backing NATO's direction. I wouldn't want us to interrupt this question of a decision that, I think, after the previous two votes, you see. We're moving forward, aren't we? Are you discussing it? All right, colleagues. Then I ask for the last project, where there is an insistence on the discussion, to sign up: two in favour, two in favour. Please, National Deputy Fedin, European Solidarity faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u69	I give the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, you know, really, we are still calling on all the deputies present in this room to hear what is being discussed in our decision, which, in fact, we are now giving a chance to preserve the face of the majority -- the only faction that voted in favour of this law, which has already been criticised by the Council of Europe, which has already been criticised by our European partners, and to repeal it by our ruling. It's very important, colleagues, that we realize that when we move towards the European community, our legislation has to meet these standards and standards. And I would like to point out that by voting for this law you have made the human rights situation worse in a country where you have actually promised to uphold human rights. Today, in the Supreme Court, there are indeed more than 70,000 cases that are awaiting consideration. And, you know, on one of the television programs where we were with an honorary colleague from the "Serve of the People," she said that, well, this law would help unload the Supreme Court. That was so funny, because first-graders in law schools know that this is the last actually a case that can't be unloaded. And it's just weird, when you don't have an ass, an ass in the legal sphere, you make a decision that violates the right to justice of millions of Ukrainian citizens. We urge you, in fact, to help save the President's face, which you will force to sign this bill, and in December will be the negative conclusions of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission. And also, you know, we want to support this speech by previous colleagues that "Sluts" should primarily care about Ukraine's international reputation, not when the head of the profile committee plays some of the worst myths about Ukraine with some of the essays, that there's 100 dollars to buy a woman. It's a complete disgrace, and it seems to us that the head of the committee should resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u71	Thank you. I would also like to ask that all the discussions apply only to those projects that are being followed. And to you, as a person with legal knowledge, from a man who has no legal knowledge, I would like to point out that yesterday a project from the President on filters, procedural filters for the Supreme Court to unload it. I'm just explaining, maybe you don't have the information. Thank you. I give the floor to Abdulin Alexander Rafkatovitch of the Fatherland faction. Excuse me, National Deputy Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. In fact, the situation is not as simple as you just pointed out. Really. The committee yesterday came up with a bill on filters, which, despite the fact that it was only a discussion of the inclusion of the agenda, was sufficiently critical of the committee members as not doing the tasks contained in the title of the bill, which generally refers to a few other issues. But I'm going back to the decision that we're discussing today. In fact, Bill 1008 raised a very large number of questions and not just inside this session room. All these questions were answered during the announcement and discussion of the amendments, but unfortunately they were neither accepted by the committee nor by the sessional hall. By the way, in my memory, someone may correct me, but in my memory, for the first time, the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, on his own initiative, directed this bill to the Venice Commission, and, indeed, we are expecting the opinion of the Venice Commission on this bill in December. I don't want to be the type of person who anticipates and vangues, but since this bill clearly contradicts the previous conclusions of the Venice Commission on similar issues, I don't think the conclusion will be very much in favour of Ukraine in this matter. And then I would urge everyone now, perhaps to support this decision, to allow the Venice Commission to reach its conclusion so that we can look at this conclusion and take into account in the further discussion of Bill 1008, we have fully implemented this conclusion in the text of Bill 1008, so that this law meets the standards of the Council of Europe, meeting all our other efforts to harmonize our legislation with the legislation of the European Union and with recommendation. with the recommendations of the Council of Europe. Please support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u73	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, since more people have not been registered, I am voting on the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16.10.2019 on the adoption, as a whole, of the Ukrainian draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities (Regulation 108-P2). Please vote and determine. [[11:51:47]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we are going to consider the draft Law on Public Electronic Registers, project number 2110) ( [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends, let's do this while I'm driving, I'll lead. If there's a question, come on. We'll clear up all the questions. We don't need to scream. After all, Parliament is a discussion room, not a scream. Dear colleagues, I'm looking into the draft Law on Public Electronic Registers (Registration No. 2110) as well as alternative 2110-1. I'd like to have a word with you. And first, I want to look at the simplified procedure. Please place and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Ready? Please vote and vote. [[11:53:00]] For 175 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee's subcommittee on the digital transformation of the People's Deputy Roman Vasilovich Sohu. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u74	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, of the Digital Transformation Committee, discussed these two bills at its meeting. The first is 2110, it's a bill on public electronic registers. And Bill 2110-1, on the basic principles of organizing and building national information and communication space. I think it's necessary to note that the 2110 bill on public electronic registers has already been submitted to the Council for consideration in the past call. That is why I would like to thank the committee for its initiators, the people's deputies of Ukraine on the eighth call. Bill 2110 is designed to standardize the system of public electronic registers, to define a unified institutional structure for the functioning of public electronic registers and the only requirements for their creation, introduction, interaction, administration, modernization, reorganization and liquidation, and to create and use in other information systems in the exercise of arbitrary and other administrative activities, and to provide administrative services. An alternative bill is called upon to create legal principles for regulating social relations in the field of information. National deputies, members of the committee, who examined these bills, determined that Bill 2110 was proposing a clear set of relationships that arose in the field of the functioning of public electronic registers and had a more perfect structure. The list of issues proposed before the resolution of the alternative bill raises issues such as state support for information and communication technologies. State regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u75	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, the North Atlantic Council is under the chairmanship of NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg. The honorary guests are now in the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Honourable MPs, members of the media, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are invited to the floor by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u76	Mr. Head Razumkov, Deputy Supreme Council, it is an honour for me once again to have the opportunity to address this Parliament. This is a time of renewal in Ukraine -- a new president, a new parliament, a new opportunity for all Ukrainian citizens. And this is also an opportunity for you, elected representatives, to make the difficult decisions that are necessary for the success of reforms, and to create the future that your country deserves. Many of you are recently elected, new in Parliament and new even in politics. And this is your opportunity, your ability to be determined to bring about broad changes to advance ambitious reforms. For many years, I myself have been a member of Parliament. I understand very well how difficult it is to be a member of Parliament, especially in very important times for this country. And I also have to say that this is necessary for your country's future. Today, I have 29 representatives of the North Atlantic Council and a representative of Northern Macedonia, who will soon be 30 members. So all of the Alliance's member countries are represented today in Kiev. Each ambassador represents his own country. And every country backs you up so that you know in the future that NATO will be on your side. More than five years ago, Russian soldiers illegally annexed Crimea. This act has struck Ukraine severely and has undermined peace and stability throughout Europe. NATO will neither accept nor accept the illegal and illegal annexation of Crimea. We call on Russia to regain control of Ukraine's peninsula and stop its actions of destabilization in eastern Ukraine. All members of the NATO Alliance: both from Europe and North America are the only ones in their condemnation of Russian behaviour. Last month, dozens of prisoners were exchanged between Russia and Ukraine, and this was the largest exchange since the Crimea’s annexation. It was a step in the right direction. Together with efforts in the "normal" format, this helps to fully implement the Minsk Accords. Russia has great responsibility for the implementation of these agreements. Russia must stop its support of fighters and mercenaries in the east, and it must withdraw its forces and weapons from the Ukrainian territory. And the OSCE observers should have full and unhindered access to the entire territory of Ukraine, and the responsibility for the destruction of the MN17 plane should be borne when 298 people were killed. I very much welcome President Zelensky’s desire to find a peaceful solution to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. For five long years this conflict has killed people, more than 13,000 Ukrainians have died, and more are killed almost every week. More than a million people were forced to leave their homes, while others were unable to live a normal life. And these sufferings must be put to an end. For many years NATO has supported the institutions and the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And lately, through a comprehensive aid package, helping you implement important reforms from improving the command and management of the Armed Forces, improving the military education and training system, and encouraging the transition to NATO standards, as well as ensuring greater resilience against hybrid threats, cyber attacks and disinformation campaigns. We have strengthened our support for the Ukrainian Navy in the Black Sea, including through cooperation with your Navy with a higher level of information exchange, port visits and training. Individual members of the Alliance also provide considerable military training to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, demonstrating the importance of transatlantic communication and our partnership with Ukraine. But our partnership is not a one-way street. Despite the extremely difficult circumstances at home, Ukraine has proved for many years that it is a strong and effective NATO partner, participating in NATO missions and works around the world, from our training mission in Afghanistan to the deployment of military engineers in Kosovo. It is also contributing to the NATO response force and is preparing to contribute to the NATO training mission in Iraq. Ukraine helps to improve and improve Euro-Atlantic security, and I am grateful for that. Ladies and gentlemen, this newly elected parliament has a historic opportunity to change Ukraine for the better. And you've all made a powerful leap forward. And I look forward to the implementation of the National Security Act, which was adopted last year, with parliamentary oversight of security agencies and defence institutions, as well as the reform of the Security Service. NATO advisers will work with you to implement Euro-Atlantic principles and best practices to strengthen the rule of law, to ensure minority rights, to combat corruption and to ensure that all aspects of public life are open and transparent, so that Ukrainian institutions serve the interests of the people of Ukraine better. This will support Ukraine’s desire to join NATO. As a sovereign state, Ukraine has the right to choose its own security systems. NATO doors remain open. The road to NATO membership is not easy. Those desiring to do so need to be loyal and to make significant reforms. But ultimately, membership is the decision of the members of the NATO Alliance and those who want to join it, and only for them. No one outside the country has a veto. The time of the spheres of influence went back in time. Yesterday, the North Atlantic Council visited Odessa and was at the National Maritime Academy, which NATO has been supporting since the illegal annexation of Crimea. Working together, the academy moves to new stages of its strength. New courses are being introduced from the leadership, new equipment, and trainees are being trained on board NATO ships. I can say that Ukrainian cadets who train on board NATO ships see opportunities for modernizing their Armed Forces. And yesterday we visited four NATO ships in the harbor of Odessa that showed the results of this work. During our visit yesterday, we didn't just see houses or ships -- we saw the future. The future of this country, which has been embodied in young people like these classmates we've met, their minds, their desire for professionalism, all of this has been very vividly reflected. And when we spoke to them, we realized that there was a wonderful future ahead of Ukraine and there was a great hope for the future. Ukraine has come a long way, and much more must be done. And NATO supports you because we share the same values: love for freedom and democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. So, ladies and gentlemen, last time I had the privilege of speaking before this Parliament, before the Council, two years ago, I quoted Taras Shevchenk as saying, and I want to quote him again, he wrote, "I'm afraid to fall into chains, die in captivity, and worse still sleep, sleep and sleep in the wild." Freedom is not just a right, it is also an obligation, an obligation to act not only in your own interests but in the best interests of all. As elected deputies of this Parliament, you have the opportunity to work together, regardless of your party membership, for the benefit of all Ukrainian citizens and to take advantage of the opportunities that provide free, open democratic society. You're not sleeping! You are upholding your values! Ukraine stands for its future, and NATO stands next to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a break coming up. I ask the heads of the MP factions and groups to the conference room to meet with representatives of the North Atlantic Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'd like that. Now our colleagues will be here to meet with representatives of the North Atlantic Council. I'm sorry that we've delayed this process, and hopefully we'll continue to work quickly, and we'll be able to go through the questions that we've foreseen today in the daytime. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our work. Is Frolov in the hall? Yes, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Florov Paul Valeriyovich on the alternative bill 2110-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u79	Good afternoon! Your attention is proposed by the draft Law on Basic Principles for the Ordering and Construction of National Information and Communication Space. This alternative project has a much broader subject of legal regulation and is called upon to harmonize social relations in the field of information arising between public authorities, local authorities, natural and legal persons in the creation, development, and exploitation of information objects. The project proposes to address the functioning of the state IT sector, the Smartphone State and electronic information resources as a whole, the use of ICT technologies in government activities, and to improve the protection of information and prevention of unauthorized access. The project is aimed at designing systems products and creating digital tools that will increase the effectiveness of not only the state-owned IT sector, but also other important areas: finance, transport, medicine, the social sphere, and contribute to socio-economic transformation. In addition, the issue of digital expertise and reconciliation of documents between active ministries and departments is regulated, and the specificities and principles of state support for ICT development are defined. As a result, we will have a single ICT public sector structure, a state-private partnership for the introduction of a service model for information, budget savings for creating new electronic information resources and supporting existing ones. Of course, the project has discussion issues, and that is understandable because it contains a lot of money. The implementation of its ideas will take place in stages and will be balanced by taking into account the needs and interests of all the subjects mentioned therein, including those of the population who, unfortunately, do not yet have access to the Internet, or because of their personal beliefs, do not want to take advantage of such opportunities. The committee offered to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u80	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u81	The Committee proposed that the first reading of the main draft 2110 be adopted. Therefore, in support of this decision, I propose that we get involved in the preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u82	Thank you. The committee's position is given to the head of the Digital Transformation Committee. Soha Roman Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, there are two bills: 2110 and 2110-1 (alternative). The committee considered both of these bills and made the following decisions: the committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading to adopt the draft Law on Public Electronic Registers (Registration No. 2110). Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two in favour, two in favour. The factions. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Kira Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u86	Kira Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u87	Kira Ruddick, Voice faction. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a secret that one of the most unpleasant interactions between a citizen and a state is the need to obtain a wide variety of information and extracts. A good example is the process of changing the place of registration, which I'm sure no one would want to repeat on their own free will. These difficulties are linked to the disagreement of government registers. At present there are 350, and they may contain a wide variety of information about you and your possessions. Consider, for example, the recent problem of raiding people’s property when judicial and property records have resulted in criminal attacks on their property. The bill sets out the only requirements for the register of information, its legal status, its order of creation, its reproduction on material media, that is, it allows for the creation of a normal operating system for public registers. Once it's introduced, I'm sure we'll experience a significant improvement in the number and quality of the admin that the State gives us. The Voice faction supports the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now speaking on behalf of Eugene Nina Petrovna. Sumar Victoria Petrovna will perform. But are the speakers still in the hall? Then Papiev with motive, and we move on to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, as has already been pointed out by a committee representative, we have indeed worked on this bill in the parliament of the last assembly. And really, these are the relationships that need to be settled. Since registers exist, there are many government registers, but there are also private registers. And you can actually see that private registers are much more effective. For example, we've been looking at an example of an e-control register that lets you know about all of your assets, for example, that are counted against you according to all government records. But you have to pay this register. This may not appeal to various governmental authorities who do not want to give access to their actual earnings. And so we need to normalize this area of social relations. We will support this bill in the first reading. But I would like to emphasize that it's very important for us to be very serious about this bill before the second reading. Because, first of all, there's no position to protect a person's personal data. And that means that such private data can become an element of the trade. And that's the thing that today's digital world needs to be protected. Second thing. It can have elements of corruption risks and very serious because. You know the last scandal associated with the scoreboards. It also provides for remuneration as an administrator and also the ability of the local government or government authorities to actually choose a register that will act as a private one, including the provision of private services. So this must be clearly defined by law. And it's very important that we don't have to have these new playgrounds that are going to make a lot of money.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u90	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u91	Obviously, the area needs to be regulated now. But it's obvious that the bill needs an extremely important piece of work. I invite everyone to work on it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u92	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Turn on the microphone, with a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u93	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! I am grateful to the initiators of this bill as a person who knows directly all the problems of our electronic registers. In my time, even in the position of Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, I've faced the fact that, for example, such a single state register of people who have benefits, the Pension Fund as a whole, do you even know that they don't belong to the State? State resources created by the State do not belong to the State. And the software of these registers is owned by private individuals. And we need to seriously redraft this bill. First, to return everything to government property, so that we don't have ProZorro, where the royalty is given to people who have created registers and systems at public expense, and the silencer has privatized them and they have the wrong benefit, and they use gaps in Ukrainian legislation. We're here to make the registers public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Scrooge is a motive. And let's go to the vote. Olena Ivanovno, but a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u95	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I'll tell you in 30 seconds. We've studied this bill perfectly in faction and we're lending our trust to this bill, and we've decided to support it in the first reading. But we have the same fundamental warnings that our colleagues have already expressed and that have expressed scientific expertise about how the state will administer and who will own these registers, and how they will or will not be protected in the information in these registers. So we're going to work on that for the second reading. In the first reading, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Public Electronic Registers (Registration No. 2110). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:01:10]] For the 320. Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Let's see the factions. The People's Servant Party – 231, "The Opposition Platform – For Life" – 6, "European Solidarity" – 20, "The Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 10, "The Voice" – 19, "The Non-Factional" – 19. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been proposed to amend some of Ukraine’s legislation on the formation of state policies in the field of labour, employment, employment and labour migration. — Registration No. 2168. I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[2:02:03]] For 247 Thank you. For 247. Decision taken. The report is given to the Minister for Economic Development, Trade, and Agriculture, Milovan Timothy Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u97	Good afternoon. I recently left home and was approached by a man, a man. He did not have a permanent place to live, and he asked for a job. He was the CEO of the company, he didn't ask for a pension, he asked for a job, he wanted to provide for himself. It's important to me. In the labor market right now, we have a simple paradox: if you talk to companies, they don't have enough workers. But at the same time, if you talk to people, we have 8-9 percent of unemployment, people are trying to find work, they're throwing and they're going abroad, and we're losing people because of it. Why is that? This means that today people do not have the skills that businesses need, and business does not teach people to qualify them. So the economy today doesn't work in the labor market. We need to understand how we can change this situation. We suggest that we turn the Employment Service into a modern target and service service. Each person will be able to appreciate his skills and choose a profession for which there is business demand. We're already doing profiling, as developed countries do. We're piloting this on government officials who are now being released. We're going to redecorate how unemployment funds are spent to help retrain and stimulate job search. We reform labour legislation to make it easy for companies to create jobs, and they didn't waste time on bureaucracy. We're reforming the Holding that all business complains about. So I ask you to support draft Law 2168, which gives us such powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u98	Thank you, Timothy Sergeiovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u99	At its meeting on October 11, 2019, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights considered the bill. According to the legislation, the bill proposes to replace the central authority of the executive branch from social policy (this is currently the Minsocpolitics) to the central authority of the executive branch in the field of employment and labour migration (now Mert), trade and agriculture. I want to point out that the discussion was quite lively. Social partners discussed what was called ministries: both the Ministry of Social Policy and the Ministry of Economic Development of Trade and Agriculture -- the word "work" is missing. The parties to the discussion agreed that in order to provide a thorough assessment of how this function would be transferred, it would be necessary to see how this would work. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council generally supported this idea. And given the above, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis and, if there is no objection in the room, as a whole, if we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to two-for-two-against factions. Please sign up. Kabachenko Vladimir Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u101	Please give the floor to Zimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u102	Tsimbaluk Mikhailovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u103	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, The All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. The great chairman, the honorable presidency, the colleagues, all those who hear us and see us, the dear Ukrainian people! Indeed, when we say that the authors of Bill No. 2168 are proposing to transfer to the Ministry of Economics, Trade and Agriculture all powers relating to work, labour relations, employment and labour migration, it sounds very bold. If we ask the question of whether the subject is being dealt with by the cospolytics, no, of course not. But there is great doubt that the Ministry is taking over these powers. And it was very difficult in two minutes to understand the position of minister. Will it be able to produce a national, state-owned labour migration program when more than one and a half million people left Ukraine this year, statistically, in search of employment and a better life? When the Czech Republic is increasing its employment quotas for Ukrainians already this year. When neighboring Poland simplifies the employment of Ukrainian doctors. So we need to hear the clear position of the ministry, where the program and how the progressive government plans to solve the very problem of Ukrainian employment in Ukraine. Our faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland will support this bill in the first reading. But it is very important that the minister clearly demonstrate not only political will but also professionalism with his team to carry out this extremely important issue, which concerns almost half of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u104	Thank you. Vasilchenko Galina Ivanovna Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, if we look at practically any business survey that they lack in our country, unfortunately, first of all, in order for our economy to grow, you won't see high tariffs, or high tax rates, it's important, you'll see three things: the first is an imperfect judicial system that doesn't guarantee their rights; the second is the pressure of law enforcement authorities on honest business and the demand for dishonest steps; and the third is very imperfect labour legislation. We are happy that the first steps are finally being taken to ensure that our labour legislation can lead to European standards. We hope that this technical bill, and in fact it can be called technical -- that's all we're handing over, that we're finally going to be able to make the changes that are both for the growth of the economy and at the same time protect the rights of all workers under European legislation. We very much hope that in the coming months we will see from the government, from the committee and from our parliament together a working text of changes that will essentially change our economy and give employers the opportunity to provide fair conditions and, on the other hand, to protect workers. But this bill, as a first step, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u106	Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u107	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u108	Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. One minute, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u109	Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, I'm sorry. Let's welcome the children of Suma, 10 schools. Hello!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! Change is necessary, this bill is systemic and conceptual. The first thing you cannot do today is not to be accepted as a whole. Why? The first question is, what's important is that this bill proposes to amend more than 20 bills. Can we ask a question? Is there an organizational possibility? We voted in this room for the unification of two ministries: Mert, economic development, and agrobusiness. Is the restructuring complete? Is there a legal structure, organization, technology, processes? We're still joining the Ministry of Societies. Powerful, and we want to do it. You have to wait, not rush from the point of view of acceptance as a whole. The other one. The Ministry of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture is the main body, and we're talking about the system of authorities. And today you can't form, I'm sorry, flies and chops and make a quality product. This should be a clearly constructed system. Third. Is this to be done from the point of view, and how? First. We need to improve our qualifications by having a separate program, using resources, funding, and technology. As we communicate today, including with the community of experts, they say that there must be a systematic, complex, and very important document for the future. What we're proposing specifically. We're proposing innovation, we're proposing a clear strategy for development by 5, by 10 years, and we're proposing conceptual changes that affect a lot of legislation. We suggest that we do not accept in general today. The other one. Consider yesterday's meeting of the Minister on our committee, where a clear programme of cooperation on the development of Ukraine's economy, including before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u111	Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u112	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! It's really a technical law. I want you to listen carefully. There was a body that was responsible for retraining people to the Employment Centre, and it was the Ministry of Social Policy. By the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economic Development made it the main body, in fact, now the minister has come to us to vote for it and simply bring it into line with the Cabinet's ruling, nothing complicated. But, Minister, we wanted to hear some concrete steps from you. We wanted to hear why it was Kabmin who redistributed this very important direction to your ministry. What prevented this from happening in the Ministry of Social Policy? What will you do? I'll tell you a secret, but the "For the Future" MP group is made up of majors, and we have people coming to us, and they're asking us to help them find a job, and we're also dealing with these issues. We wanted to hear from you what would be done to you as a professional now minister if we voted for it: first, second, third. That's what the people's deputies wanted to hear, at least the people's deputies for the future. So in the first reading, we're going to support, we understand that we need to do this right now. But when you come to us, and we want you to come to us again on the basis and in general, and this is definitely not today, we want to hear specifically what you will do as a minister and what the State Employment Service will do under your leadership as we provide all the Ukrainians who want to work with a decent job and a decent salary for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u113	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Dear colleagues, discussions. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u114	Thank you. The distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, well, it's surprising that this is an important issue, and it's being considered by a reduced procedure. And I'm also surprised at the decision of the committee that proposes this bill not only as a basis but as a whole. And for people who have a little bit of understanding on these issues, there's no answer to that. First, what about Ukraine's commitments to the International Labour Organization, to social dialogue, to tripartism? The main question is, if the State Employment Service moves to the Ministry of Economics, is there funding in the State Budget for 2020? There are about 10 billion dollars to be earmarked for funding, not to take those costs away from insured persons with a single social contribution, and the funds to be released are directed towards higher pensions. Therefore, it can only be based on a basis that requires a very serious revision to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the formation of state policies in the field of labour, labour relations, employment and labour migration (Registration No. 2168). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:17:33]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the committee's proposal was to adopt this bill as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 231, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 2, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 13, "non-fractional" – 20. As for the reduction in the preparation time for the second reading. Do you have to do it? Dear colleagues, then, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I am voting on the proposal to cut back half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration number 2168) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the formation of state policies in the field of labour, labour relations, employment and labour migration. Please support and vote. [[14:18:52]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have less than 10 minutes left to ask. I suggest you don't do that anymore. But here's the proposition: go on. In view of the fact that we left the Rules in connection with our guests, with the visit of our guests, I propose that we continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until 19:00. Please be supportive. Please prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] You know, there's an offer here by 8 a.m., I'm not sure you'll like it. Until 7:00. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 19:00. Please support and vote. [[14:20:10]] For 225 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, I'll try. Dear colleagues, this is a procedural question, we can ask again. Let's try to work. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you a question about the extension to 19 hours of our working day. Please. Please vote and vote. [[14:21:05]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u117	You're good!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-31-m0.u118	For 232. Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine continued until 7 p.m. Show by factions. The "Serve of the People" party – 225 opposition – 7. Thank you, colleagues. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
