ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, good afternoon, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So please take your jobs and get ready for registration. Ready? Yes. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, please register. Please register and all participate in the registration. Let's register. [[12:32:41]] 339 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you all with the holidays that have passed, and with the New Year, and with the Christmas of Christ, and to welcome everyone with a historic event: with Tomos' handover to the Ukrainian House of Orthodox Church, it is a great historic event, and I want all the Ukrainians and all the national deputies who have initiated this process to welcome this great historic event. Congratulations, fellows! [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the performances of the authorized representatives of the MP factions and groups. And I ask all the factions and groups who intend to participate in the discussion to record and sign up. Please. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich is invited from Fatherland to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u2	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Fatherland would like to make a special statement, and I'd like you to hear about the assassination of the deputy of the Central City Council of Krivi Rig of the Dnipropetrov district of Mirzoyan. On January 9, at the house of Mirzoyan (Dnipropetrovské District, Curve Rig), certain individuals, having a direct intention to take his life, whose crime was brought to an end for reasons that did not belong to their will, carried out all their actions. A crime involving Mirzoyan has been committed with particular cruelty. The attackers struck him with life-threatening blows, with all the determination and dynamics, clearly understanding the localization and the mechanism of the injuries, namely, the blows to life-important organs -- the face, the head, the torso, they used the pre-prepared subject of the crime -- the metal pipe, they used a gas bubble with a liquid that contained the extract of the natural feather. As a result of the unlawful actions of criminals, our deputy of the Crevice Town Council has been given a stroke, a skull fracture, a skull fracture, a fractured limb, and a breakdown of joints. Colleagues, after his crime, Mirzoyan, were hospitalized. Criminal conduct has been discovered. That's why we consider this a politically motivated crime against a member of the Fatherland Party against our deputy. On the basis of the status of the National MP, I wanted and demanded to organize a comprehensive investigation, an objective commitment to responsibility, according to the legislation in force, and to provide information to the Fatherland Party and the faction deputies on the course of the investigation. Colleagues, and I want to say, you know, it's a unique case. The city of Cherkasa: the city's head is suspicious. The city of Cherkasi: Head of the Fatherland headquarters, Head of the Budget Commission with suspicion. A youth manager in Fatherland, Cherkasa, with suspicion. Colleagues, Mikolayivsk oblast: Head of the Permanent Commission, deputy of the Vlasenko District Council, has been searched for six months, his relatives, his parents, directly and directly. Odarchenko is a national deputy, assistant to Andrew Fedorenko, and his assistant was shot directly in a car with a firearm. He was injured in the back. A colleague from Odessa Oleg Radkovsky, three wounds to the back, one bullet almost reached the spinal cord. Colleagues, this is the abuse of opponents. We're asking you to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u3	Thank you. I'd like to introduce you to the head of the Peter Prashenko faction, Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u4	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko sincerely welcomes everyone with New Year's and Christmas holidays. Today, the first month of the United Council and the creation of Ukraine’s only Orthodox Church pass. This day, the united Ukrainian Church is already in the status of autocephal and equal among other Orthodox churches. On December 15th, the United Council of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine and Tomos of the Constantinople Mother Church of 6 January marked the declaration of the spiritual independence of the Ukrainian people. These dates will hold a special place in national history alongside the proclamation of State independence in 1991. At the same time, the 19th year is no less dramatic in modern history, than the 2014s, we are once again at the breaking of historical events, and again, Ukraine is facing a challenge: what it should be and whether it should be at all. It is symbolic that Ukraine received Tomos for Christmas, so on behalf of the faction of the President of Ukraine in Parliament, I thank everyone who has prayed and fought for our independent church. In addition to the creation of an independent church in the past year, other remarkable achievements have been remembered. Parliament continued to strengthen Ukraine's security by supporting President Peter Prashenko's bills on national security and reintegration of Donbas, and we continued to strengthen our army. Ukraine confirmed its choice of entry into NATO and the European Union when Parliament had previously approved a proposal by the President of Ukraine to amend the Constitution accordingly. Ukraine terminated the Treaty of Friendship with the Russian Federation. Our citizens want to move closer to Europe, as evidenced by more than 10 million biometric passports issued. Eighteenth year clearly indicated that we are sure to leave Moscow forever, and the main driving force of this historic process was and remains the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. The new 19th year presents us with the same challenges that were faced in 2014 for the preservation of Ukrainian statehood. The enemy realized that it was impossible to bring the Ukrainians down by force, and now all the Kremlin's resources are directed towards the President's next election. Putin wants to see the headmaster of Ukraine, a man to whom he can pressure, intimidate, manipulate, or with whom he has already arranged for his own benefit. This year Russia has the last chance to stop Ukraine's movement towards Euro-Atlantic integration and bring our people back to the imperial yoke. The next election is not just a political battle between opponents, but a real battle between the two worlds – a Western democracy with Russian imperialism. And the result depends on the future of every Ukrainian, our children, our grandchildren, and Ukraine's independence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Victor Bondar's head of Rebirth Group is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u6	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor. I think the moment is coming for the presidential race, the parliamentary race, and we can do everything we can to finally pay off the debts to the people who voted in favour of the representatives who are in this room today. We still suggest that we go back to the global issues that the Supreme Council has promised for five years to decide and vote and, unfortunately, no one has done anything like that, but more is done. It's about a new election law, making a normal election system when the lists are open, when every person understands what party they vote for, which person and vote for this person, and not that shameful story, when they buy voices and run around Ukraine in Greek, and then in the hall people who don't understand what they're doing here. We propose to review not only the electoral system, but also to reduce the number of people in parliament, there is political will, and many presidential candidates have promised to do so to shorten Parliament. And I think that, if you ask that question, people would agree that there would be 150 left in Parliament, up to 200 deputies per country, and that would be quite enough. We're talking about what we can and should vote on the President's impeachment law. That the law must be voted out and that the parliamentary immunity that many have spoken of and that many have promised in this room by the pro-dominant factions and, unfortunately, the question has been taken away from them and has not been dealt with. A separate block is the question of Ukraine’s economic recovery. Nevertheless, we demand that the government hear the economic recovery programme of Ukraine, give it a month to develop it. And in order to vote on the government's vision and the government's view of the elections, how it will be ensured that industry rises, that order in the banking sector, that the National Bank should pursue politics when government banks are not lending imported car purchases, technicians, they're lending the building, they're lending the industry -- that would be the normal policy that we should hear. So I'm going to go back to these blocks. The political bloc: the removal of inviolability, the change in the election system, the power of the President, the elimination of the inviolability of MPs, judges and all others who have such inviolability. The economic recovery program is the second block to be heard. And the third program is Ukraine's energy independence. Review of these shameful tariffs, cancelling them, carrying out energy audits of tariffs and gas prices. And we call to Parliament the representatives of Naftogazu, the Rakhunkov Chamber, and we hear about the 250 billion profits that sit on offshore companies and on Naftogaza, Ukraine. These three clusters of questions should be the key to this Supreme Council's consideration in the spring for the presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, the next performance is the representative of the Opposition Block faction, Alexander Wilkul. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u8	Dear people of Ukraine, welcome to the New Year and Christmas Christ! The President's team is proud to have sent people greeting cards at the signature of Dusty and the mayors, and they were openly forced to do so. That's understandable. But most of all, what's called a greeting from the authorities that people really felt, these are the utility bills. New payments with new prices that people have received. I got them from people at meetings I've been conducting all over the country. And the only thing that makes people optimistic is that this is the last year for power. Our country is now going through the most difficult period of time. For 5 years, war continues in Ukraine, killing Ukrainians: military and peaceful citizens. War is ruining the economy. Since the beginning of the war, the economy has decreased by more than a third. Direct economic losses are already measured by hundreds of billions of dollars. But the current authorities think it's better not to talk about it, and the authorities are bragging about getting another tax from the IMF in the form of a loan. In fact, it's much easier than restoring the economy. It is also far more convenient for the authorities to continue the war than to stop it. I drive around the region all the time, I meet people, I visit businesses, and I know what's bothering people is the rise in prices of products and commodities, the rapid rise in the cost of utility payments. This has already put the people beyond poverty. Shortening and fastening. and the closure of businesses will rob people of their livelihoods. Ukrainians are making massive profits abroad. For many families, this remains the only chance of survival. Our nation, which once launched rockets into space, is rapidly becoming a remote agrarian country with 15 million people without prospects. Dear Ukrainians! In 2019, it's not just an election, it's a chance to bring back a normal life. There are two ways in countries right now. The first is to keep a party of wars on the people's mountain destroying people's lives and the economy. The second is to support us, to support peace and development. I'm sure each of you will make the right choice. We will restore peace, and representatives of the rightful authorities will bear more than just historical responsibility for what they have done. Instead of war and destruction, we will return to Ukraine and rebuild our nation. It's not an easy way, but I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u9	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u10	Instead of war and destruction, we will return to Ukraine and restore peace. It's a difficult path, but I'm sure with your support and help we can overcome it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, from the "Will of the People" Group, Valérie Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today a catastrophic situation has arisen and, sadly, every day we lose our minds, our intelligence, our professionalism, and our power. As you've already learned, it's about labour migration. This problem is now becoming a slow - motion bomb for Ukraine, making it possible to know about itself today, and in the near future, it will cause a crisis of unprecedented magnitude at all. In fact, we are passing on to the future generation a global problem whose foundations are being laid today and now. Think about it: Every day, every hour, we lose our top-class professionals. It's a simple professional worker, it's a nurse, it's a cardiosurgeon doctor, it's a high-grade engineer, it's a college student, it's a world-class student. This list today is endless. Yes, according to the Ministry of Social Policy abroad, between 7 million and 9 million Ukrainians are already working today, with more than 3 million working on a permanent basis. At the same time, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers’ consulting company, in 2019, listen, Ukraine will take first place in the world at the loss of labour. Then, on the one hand, we have a war that takes our citizens' lives every day, and on the other hand, the state has launched total migration processes that are now leading to internal professional degradation and the shortage of professional personnel. At present, what is happening in the country today is nothing more than a cynical subversion of concepts. Like those processes that are already being produced by power today, this is not about joining Europe, it's just about transplanting the best Ukrainian brains and hands into the economy of other countries, where our nation is not a full player, but unfortunately we're just a donor to Western countries, a donor who distributes all organs and will eventually be doomed to death. I'm going to say that labour migration is not just our problem that exists in itself and comes from nowhere, in fact, labour migration is a lactic paper that has the deepest problems. The inability of the Ukrainian authorities to create decent working conditions and decent living conditions is where the root of all problems is. That is why millions of our countrymen are forced to leave their families and their homes and wander abroad. So I'm convinced that officials should take immediate and radical measures to deal with this problem in the shortest possible terms. We've made all our proposals, both the Cabinet of Ministers, and we've registered the relevant bills. It's time to act! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u13	Thank you, dear fellow. And here's the invitation to the leader of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! The press secretary of Putin pointed out directly what authorities they wanted in Ukraine. They need traitors and collaborators to win our elections. Then, he said, the civil war would end, according to Moscow. Of course, Crimea in the Kremlin wants to take the parentheses in the first place. That is, only after the surrender of Crimea and the Crimeans will Moscow be ready to talk to our traitors about the surrender recorded in the Minsk Treaties. Our answer is not going to happen. First. The Ukrainian nation at the age of 14 showed that it was capable of mobilizing. In past elections, state reform forces have gained a constitutional majority in Parliament. I'm sure it'll be the same in the 19th. The other one. There is no civil war in Ukraine, there is a Russian war against Ukraine, Russia has occupied part of our lands, it kills the peaceful population of Ukrainians and our military population every week, and it is almost monthly taken hostage by new Ukrainians. Ukrainian citizens understand what Moscow is doing. Third. Real, responsible Ukrainian politicians cannot be stopped. The Putin regime has long tried to abuse the international search and extradition system to intimidate and discredit the leaders of the People's Front: Yatsenuk, Turkinov, Habakkuk, members of our faction. Separately, I wanted to intimidate and discredit anyone who opposes peace under the Kremlin's terms, I repeat, will not succeed. Such policies as the Kremlin wants could only come to power as a result of massive falsifications and harsh interference with the Ukrainian elections. But we won't let that happen. That's why the People's Front faction requires the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to investigate the fact that Russia and Ukrainian citizens are involved in the elections. In particular, this commission should investigate sources of financing for proputin media. It's about television channels called Ukrainian, but they're not undercover for surrender to Russia, they're spilling dirt on Ukrainian military, they're bleaching terrorists. Of course, the TSC will not limit itself to Medvedchuk or to the companies of his guides, but Putin’s negotiator should be a priority for this parliamentary TSC. We urge the faction heads to support the draft Order on the Temporary Investigation Commission, which introduces the People's Front and gives its candidates to the commission. To this day, only one faction has offered its proposals. I am addressing the heads of factions and representatives of the groups, please submit your nominations to this commission. And finally. This is a fundamental question -- we have to protect the will of the Ukrainians from the Kremlin. When public authorities don't respond, that's what we have to do, and you and I are parliamentarians. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor. And the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, is invited to the floor. Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Here's a recent report from the International Monetary Fund in Ukraine. We've studied it carefully, here are 111 pages of plugins. By the way, this report in English is still not translated into English. I would recommend that the President and the government, instead of welcoming the Ukrainians, translate into Ukrainian their, in fact, cooperation plan with the International Monetary Fund for the next five years. This is actually a pact on external governance of the Ukrainian economy, a clear plan to prevent Ukraine from falling financially and not to give Ukraine a chance to rise economically. At the same time, the International Monetary Fund’s leadership in this document acknowledges that growth will not be sufficient to allow the standard of living of people in Ukraine to catch up with neighbouring countries. Despite improvements, GDP per capita in Ukraine remains one of the lowest in Europe. In fact, this is a plan to freeze the Ukrainian economy. Having signed a new memorandum, the Ukrainian authorities are still obliged to raise gas prices from May 1 by 20 percent; not to set tax incentives for the development and restoration of national production; to sell public enterprises; and to appoint, in the supervision of those left behind, so - called, independent members of foreign nationals. In this document, the president, the prime minister, the minister of finance, and the head of Nazbank promised that the purchase of medicines, instead of the Ministry of Health, would continue to be carried out by international purchasing organizations, and would undertake to freeze the creation of a second - level pension system, and to further reduce the social standards for subsidies in the event of a deficit. As a result, today people who have lived their entire lives or have fictitiously divorced or who write their children out because of such documents signed by the authorities, they do not have the right to receive subsidies. Today’s authorities, along with the International Monetary Fund, have imposed poverty, addiction, immigration, and humiliation on Ukrainians. I am convinced that our people deserve the opposite, new jobs, industrial recovery, development of the Ukrainian economy, a sense of confidence, dignity and perspective in their own country, this is the plan that our team offers to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Please welcome the head of the Self-Help faction, Oleg Berezuk. Mr. Oleg, may I have a word with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u18	Today's government, the President of his campaign is using the slogans of the parents of the revolution of the century, especially Wavelov's: "Get away from Moscow!".. But when Wave and his comrades said, "Get away from Moscow!'they certainly didn't think to trade with Moscow, and when the present authorities say 'Get away from Moscow!"it increases the purchase of Russian goods over a similar period last year by 20 percent. Today, we have 38 percent more fertilizer from Russia, 43 percent more leather products, 50 percent more zinc and produce, 24 percent sugar and starch. That is why the other villagers had no place to sell sheep skins and cows. That's why! And this is "Get away from Moscow"? No, it's a Pharisee, it's a cover-up of criminal oligarchic politics with the sacred words of the revolution of the century and the sacred Ukrainian Church. Covering up these slogans and covering up for the saints, the police now raid the roads. At the same time, those who are intoxicated with alcohol drive, who are justified, and whose rights are restored. Today, he's going to piss off a tax collector by raising money, who's going to vote? Today, the city, including Borislav, moves to water supply three hours in the evening and three hours in the morning because of the cancellation of the night’s tariff. Today, rural schools in the highlands pay four times for the heat only because they once put money into the state’s energy - efficient night - wage technology. What do these school principals have to say? What can you tell your teachers, your parents, when there are walls and children in schools studying in a mushroom? This is "Get away from Moscow!"? Is this a holy thing? Is that what godly people do? Of course not. This is a pharisaic of the oligarchy regime. Today, the state has entered a difficult period of pre-election races, and today there is a struggle between the oligarchs and the people of the country. President Sadowa's self-help candidate is actually proposing a plan to overcome the oligarhat in the country, it's a plan to output the country, to modernize it, to restore confidence in power, to undisputed trust in power, just because without confidence in authority it's impossible to build a country. And corruption is for everyone today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u19	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u20	And today's corruption on all power lines: from a patrol on the road to the President of Ukraine is a tool for the capture of people, the impoverishment of people, and this tool in the hands of the enemy, because oligarchus is a tool of an age-old enemy of the country from which to flee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, now we have a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front". They're ready to take a break. That is why I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. But then we go to the vote. And I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today in Moscow courts have begun over Ukrainian sailors who have declared themselves prisoners of war. Our Ukrainian sailors have shown unheard of courage, dignity, and patriotism by breaking all the Kremlin's scenarios by declaring themselves prisoners of war and refusing to give any witness in the Kremlin court. Unfortunately, it was also predicted that the Kremlin script of these courts was going on behind closed doors. The courts are held in a closed regime, where neither the media nor the representatives of Ukraine are allowed, because Mrs. Denisova, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is now in Moscow with the families of sailors, and our boys have come to the courts to support the representatives of the embassies of the EU, the United States. And all of these courts are closed. Obviously, why: Because Russia wants to hide the scenario of its crime, the criminal attack on Ukrainian crews in the Azov Sea, the shooting of our sailors, and even the condition of their health, because the three have been injured, and so far we do not have adequate information about their health. What the Ukrainian Parliament and Ukrainian authorities must do right now to protect the families of sailors and other political prisoners. First. I call on Parliament on Thursday to consider with you a package of bills that bring Ukrainian legislation into line with the Geneva Conventions and introduce appropriate terminology. The other one. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine has already begun this work, and I ask all deputies to support it at all levels so that we can appeal to our colleagues from the United States of America, the European Union for the introduction of a new Azov sanctions package against the Russian Federation for this particular aggression, an open military aggression against Ukraine in the Azov Sea. As a delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we will also appeal to our colleagues in Strasbourg in January next week to hold a special debate on the provocation of the Russian war in the Azov Sea and the requirement of the immediate release of Ukrainian sailors. I would also like to inform you, fellow Ukrainian officials, that last year, 2018, repeatedly at different levels, starting with a mine group and ending with official appeals through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has made an offer to the Russian side about our willingness to hand over 23 Russian criminals in exchange for the release of Kremlin political prisoners. We still have no official response to these appeals either at the level of the mine group or through diplomatic channels. The Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also silent on these proposals. We're officially addressing the Russian Federation once again: release the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u24	Once again, we officially refer to the Russian Federation: Ukraine is ready to hand over 22 convicted Russians in exchange for the Kremlin’s political prisoners: Saints, Suchenka, Kolchenka, Karpüka, Griba, and others. As for our sailors, they are prisoners of war, and they must be released without exchange, without any premeditation or blackmail of the Kremlin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u25	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. The first law of the day is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the granting of maternity leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (No.6350). And, colleagues, I propose to support the proposal to consider it in a simplified manner so that we can go through today's agenda effectively. I was approached by a number of deputies, stressing what are important issues today, and since we have a day to catch up on, I ask all factions to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. This law is unifying and, according to the Apparatus, is supported by all factions. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a proposal for draft Law 6350 to be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Everyone, please take part in the vote. [[13:05:57]] For the 120th. I'll do it again, but it's too big a break. Peter Poshenko's Block – 56, People's Front – 43, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 2, Radical Party – 12, Fatherland – 0, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth – 1. So, colleagues, take your seats during the vote, not all of them are in the workplace. Not even all optimists vote optimistically. Please. So, colleagues. And the chairman of the committee just asked me to support and convince the hall to support it. So, colleagues, I don't see the need not to support this proposal. I think it'll be wise, colleagues. Let's support it. You see the agenda, all the following bills. It's not a political debate, it's an organization of the Council's work so that we can work effectively today. So, colleagues, take up jobs. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. Anton! And once again, I'm putting a motion to vote on Bill 6350 so that we can vote on the draft Law 6350. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Please support everyone. Vote. [[13:07:47]] For-137 I'll put in a closing if I can. It'll be a final one. And I'd like everyone to be in position. During the vote, not all are at their ballots. My colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that the agenda is 9406, which we talked about on the Conciliation Council and many people have stressed its importance. And 9075, which was emphasized by our colleagues on the committee. And 8184. We just can't get to them if we don't vote. Let's support it. This is not a political position. Okay? So, colleagues, let's mobilize. Take up jobs. Colleagues, I'll ask you at the registration table to take part in the vote. And I'm putting once again to the vote, once again, the proposal that the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on granting a leave to adoptors when adopting an orphan child (6,350), we will consider a reduced procedure. I'd like everyone to vote, and I'm asking you to support me. Vote. Please back up! Vote! We're backing up, fellows! Hold on! [[13:09:28]] For 148 All right, colleagues. Okay. We didn't make it. Two votes is not enough. Then stay where you are, colleagues. Please be in your seats. Get ready. Anyone who hasn't got a card, take part in the vote. Please take your seats and take part in the vote. So 6350 is a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote! Please back up! Vote! Let's back it up! Colleagues, pay attention! Take part in the vote. Vote. Mr. Sergei, we're voting! [[13:10:31]] For-151 Everyone was able to vote. And we're going to look at it. I invite you to report to Deputy Minister of Social Policy Fedorovich Natalija Volodymyrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The adoption of an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care, is carried out with the aim of providing her with family and family care. A child is accepted into the family for the rights of his or her own daughter or son. The State guarantees the adoption of families. These guarantees are a means of supporting the adoption of children by Ukrainian citizens. One such guarantee is the granting of a one - time leave to adopt a child in the family. The issue of granting a one-time paid leave in connection with the adoption of a child is regulated by the Ukrainian Labour Code and the Ukrainian Vacation Act. Such a State guarantee was introduced in 2008. Today, according to legislation, women who adopted a newborn child directly from the maternity home are given 56 days of adoption leave, 70 calendar days of adoption of two or more children. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Family Code, a child abandoned in a maternity home, another health facility, or a child who has been refused to take parents, other relatives, may be adopted after reaching the age of two months. Such a term is given to children’s services to work with their parents or relatives to return the child to a biological family. Thus, the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Law on Vacations conflict with the requirements of the Ukrainian Family Code for adoption of children up to 2 months, i.e. newborns. In view of the fact that today a one - time leave in connection with adoption is actually granted only to persons who have adopted a child over three years of age. The bill regulates these differences in legislation. Please support this bill, it is very important and carries an absolutely socially important component to support adoption in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Natalia. The report invites the first deputy head of the Social Policy Committee, Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen! Your view is an extremely important, extremely important social initiative of the government, supported by the Committee on Social Policy, supported by trade unions, supported by the public. I invite you, together, to vote unanimously in favour of granting a leave for adoption. But adoption and leave for adoptive parents is important, but even more important is the new modernized social standards for, among other things, this category of people whose base is, of course, transparent tariffs and moderate, accessible, transparent, adequate gas prices for the population, particularly for adoptive parents. I stress that there is a draft decree signed by several factions on a moratorium on any increase in gas prices today in Parliament. What is more, as a candidate for the Presidents, I guarantee that the price of gas will be reduced by four times, and there is a clear academic basis on the Social Democratic Party website that has put me up with the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u29	You don't have to hurry up with that question, and suddenly someone's going to cut it eight times, and we're going to have to wait. So, colleagues, please record: two in, two in, two in, against. Capplin. From Peter Dustenka's Block, Capplin Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, I would like first of all to address you and my colleagues, who over the past few months, in a mild sense, are slightly underhanded and ironic about the subject of tariffs and the lower price of gas. Simple Ukrainians, when they call me as a national MP on my mobile phone (and they know it, I repeat: (067)5407096 is my direct number), say that they will soon bite the beets in the villages, and in the cities they will bite the skyscrapers to somehow survive the fall, survive the winter, and somehow pay for the gas and the absolutely dragon tariffs set by today's, previous government and launched just 10 years ago on January 19 as part of the signing of the agreement between the head of the government of Timoshenko and the head of the government of Russia Putinim. So please don't make fun of it, you don't make fun of it, because it's vital to ordinary Ukrainians: for a village grandmother, it's vital to a worker, to a peasant, to a teacher, to a doctor. It's the essence and basis of their lives today, you know? We have to find an academically based, economically-based formula with you today, which is how we can't give people a chance to live or fat -- to survive just under these conditions. And I assure you as a person who is inseparably linked to energy, energy saving his whole life, we have every opportunity to reduce the price of gas by a minimum of four times and to give people the price of gas at a cost. This is confirmed by my calculations, the calculations of international experts, the entire institutes, the analytical institutions in our country, you just need your political will. I am prepared to be the leader of such political will and to support you in this matter, as are my colleagues in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u31	I remind the people's deputies that there is a law to be put forward. I'm making a warning, and during the electoral period it's going to be particularly important, and I'm going to use my right to stop the speeches when the speeches will go as a pre-election program, not a discussion of the bill. And during the election campaign, I will especially insist on this position further. Now I'm just warning everyone. Please, from the Opposition Block, Martovicki Arthur Volodymyrovich. He's handing over Igor Shurma. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u32	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Ladies and gentlemen of Ukraine, I would like to say that the faction of the opposition bloc will support this legislative initiative with certainty. And why will we support it? And you know, I'm surprised at the position of government, their initiative. Don't you know what your predecessors did? I would like to remind you that at that time the minister of family affairs, our young colleague Yuri Pavlenko, introduced such a standard, is, and is working today. All we have to do is synchronize our Ukrainian legislation. But you need not show that you are great reformers, and you are acting for the benefit of the people, for the sake of adoption. Because if you look at statistics, this government -- think about it! – in all the years they've worked, they've even shut down the adoption job. If there were 1 thousand 831 adoptions in 2013, last year there were 1 thousand 343. So this process of government is overturned. That's the first one. The other one. If you look at international adoption, it grew by almost 20 percent in 2017, and it's a very dangerous trend, it's actually, you know, a serious signal to see if there's a process of child trafficking and selling them abroad today. And that's the last one. You know what I'm looking at today's vote, people good, we're going to look at the question of how the basket elections on the Zaporozhye: three times, if it doesn't agree on the third time, it won't be the Ottoman. And you're going to have to put your head on the fourth time. If we add 151 votes for the procedure, there are big questions about the effectiveness of this vote. We're actually entering the electoral campaign, this Parliament is doomed to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u33	Parliament is doomed to work effectively and effectively, Mr. Igor. And I'm sure the votes are in the room, and we have the opportunity during the discussion of all the deputies to gather in the hall and come out for a positive vote. Pisarenko Valery Volodymyrovich of the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u34	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, perhaps we should actually use the pre-election period to vote on such drafts, I am convinced that they will unite the session hall because it is very good that we are starting our work with such important social projects. I mean, we're going to support this initiative. What's more, we've developed another initiative that complements what we're going to be considering right now is Bill 6460. We also propose to extend the granting of parental leave to men. We realize that we need to provide special conditions for people who are really starting a new life in the family and who are increasing the number of Ukrainians. That's different. We would like to add that we would like to see among those bills that are going to be considered here in this social package, also a bill that we developed with our Kharkiv team -- Law 8621, which also complements and is appropriate for consideration in the sessional room, was developed by a deputy of the city's head in the protection of the people of Svetlan Gorbunov-Ruban and its team, for the protection of children. I think it would be appropriate for us to form a social bloc where we not only consider the issue of child protection at birth, but there are many problems in their lives that they face. All these bills are now under consideration by the Supreme Council, there are positive conclusions, and I would very much ask my colleagues to use the electoral period, and we have a lot of candidates for the Presidents here to consider these very bills. Not those for whom we have to pry, but those for which we can find a common effort and come to a successful vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u35	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Lenski Alexiyyyovich gives the word to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich Llaskov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, a moment after the holidays, look at me. For five years, I was raised in the Pritice Children’s House. Then from the 1st to the 11th grade, in boarding schools. I had three boarding schools. No one believed that a child from a kindergarten, a boarding school could do anything if you didn't have a prosecutor or a professor or a general's dad. I have shown in my life that the impossible will become possible, that from a child's home, from a boarding school, you can achieve everything in your life when you believe in your strength, when you set a goal, when you go to it, when you learn and when you smell. Today, in fact, most Ukrainian children are destined to leave because they don't have the ability to realize themselves if you're not a major, if you don't have the president's dads, the prosecutor or the judge. What should these children do? I met in a children’s home in Buska in Lviv, where 40 children were living. 37 of them are children with living parents. Where are their parents? They went to work abroad. Why did they give up their children at daybreak? Because children, at the expense of the State, agree five times a day, and most Ukrainian families are unable to feed their children twice a day, and their lunch is considered a cup of tea and a bun. So the solution to the problem of orphans is not just to make some minor changes to the law, although it's no less important for a vacation, and the global solution to the problem of orphans is to overcome poverty so that parents don't put their children in a nursery so that they don't pay the last money for the community and then they don't have the money to support the child. And so that every child in Ukraine, regardless of their wealth and parents, can realize itself in their home country. I want to tell the orphans, believe in yourself, believe in your strength, and you will get everything. We are a unique country where everyone can realize themselves, and I will allow every child to realize himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u37	So two factions have not yet participated. And I'll give you the floor to speak first to Barezuk Oleg of the Self-Help faction. All right, Alexandra Kugel, please. Two minutes, right, Mrs. Alexander? Two minutes. One minute. Can I have a minute, Mr. Oleg? Two. Okay. One minute, Alexandra Kugel, two minutes, Berezauk, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u38	Alexander Kugel, "The Fatherland" faction. As I address the Head of the Supreme Council, I thank you for asking the social question one of the first. But I would like to remind you that most of the factions of the Supreme Council that are part of the opposition, democratic parties, are asking you to make an order prohibiting the increase in tariffs. But I support you in part to ban political speeches here and to consider the laws essentially. I was ashamed to hear now the responsibility of the committee head, who pictured the issue of social politics, which he did not say about the bill, and it is very important. For all the world’s practices say that there are no children’s homes, there are as many children as there are in families, and we, as a nation, must make every step possible so that no child can be in a children’s home but find a family. And this law is very important, and we will support it, the "Paternity" faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, we're about to make a closing statement. In two minutes, we're going to vote. So I ask all the factions to inform all the deputies that there will be a vote in two minutes, and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report. No, it's a reduced procedure. That's right, no. Please, Oleg Berezuk, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u40	The self-help faction will support this bill, because it's an obvious thing to do a long time ago. But what I want to remind you is that today, creating a progressive form of orphan care -- children's homes of the family type -- are more than half dependent on the budget of local authorities. And today, when we're robbing budgets of cities and OTG, we're robbing children's homes of a family type. Today, by cancelling the night’s fare, we are robbing a city that, by spending money on the light of lies that are now oligarically engrossed, cannot afford more money for family - style children’s homes. And there's fraud and pharisaicism in that. And this law needs to be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u41	Thank you very much. Colleagues, so we move on to making decisions. The discussion is over. Therefore, I ask all members of the people to take up their jobs. In fact, all the factions that participated in the discussion, they publicly supported this bill, and we now have a chance to support it by voting. I call on all the national deputies to take up jobs, to return to their positions from their beds. So, can we vote? Yes. Ready? Colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on granting maternity leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (No. 6350), on the basis of a committee proposal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote, colleagues, we support the social law that unites the hall. I'm sure all the deputies support him, who's in the hall. Please vote, please support. [[13:28:28]] For 235 Decision taken. We move on to the next draft of the Act on Amendments to Section VIII, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Realization of Housing Rights of Guests (No. 9102). Let's do the same, fellows: we support the short-term procedure so that we can put the day session into order so that we can put the session in order before lunch. So please support 9102 on a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! We're backing up, fellows! We're backing it up. [[13:29:22]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and ZHK Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Head, dear colleagues! The adoption of the bill, which we are just beginning to consider (No. 9102), is necessary to ensure the continuity of the moratorium on evictions from hostels and the alienation of hostels and their parts, as set out in section III, paragraph 3, of the Final Position, of the Ukrainian Housing Act (No. 500). Bill No. 9102 proposes to delete the reference to the State-wide target programme for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities for the specific 2017-2021 years, which, unfortunately, has not been implemented by the Government of Ukraine and has not been adopted accordingly. The Committee on Construction, Urban Planning and the JRC has decided to recommend to you, your honourable colleagues, as a result of the first reading of Bill No. 9102, to accept as a basis and as a whole. What are you talking about? You and I have accepted the possibility of residents privatizing housing, but there are a number of procedural issues -- it's the transfer of state hostels to utility property, it's the transfer of dormitories, withdrawal from statutory capital, or through court compensation, partial compensation, or voluntarily. But as long as this process is going on, and he's going, the honourable colleagues, thanks to our work with you, there's a very small but important thing -- in the Final Positions of the 500th Act, it's stated that the moratorium on eviction and privatization, that is, the time we took with you to the residents of the hostels, which is half a million Ukrainian citizens, in order for them to be able to legally privatize, we give them time -- the moratorium. But it clearly states that at the time of the state’s program of transfer of these hostels to municipal property. But the government didn't bring this program, it doesn't exist in nature. And when the owner is evicting, there are cases like this, from the dormitory of a person -- she comes to court, but the court recognizes the owner's benefit, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u43	Please finish 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u44	Because in the law we predicted that there would be a program that would be broadcast, and for the time being, there would be a moratorium. There is no program, and the owners of the hostels quickly evict people to prevent them from privatizing this apartment. I remind you, for three generations, they grew up in dormitories, they couldn't buy their own housing, they were people who didn't have any other housing. So I'm asking this law, it's very short, to be accepted as a whole in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u45	Thank you very much for presenting your law. Dear colleagues, there is no co-rapporteur for this bill. I'm asking you to sign up for a faction discussion. Please, People's Deputies, you have the word from "Peter Prashenko's Block," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u46	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I mean, this bill has enormous social significance. And I fully support my colleague, Shinkovic, who said that in dormitories there are three or four generations of children and people living there. Imagine that there are people who are born, baptized, grown up, remarried, reborn, died in a dormitory, and these people, because of different circumstances, do not have the opportunity to obtain other housing. But the laws were adopted in such a way that they cannot find the truth again today even in the courts. So I very sincerely ask all of you, honourable colleagues, to support this bill both on the basis and on the whole, as one who does not support or vote against it does not have, as they say, a soul or a heart. Please support this very important social law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. And please, from the Radical Party faction to the Line to the word. Please, Mr. Linc.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u48	Dmitri Linko The Radical Party of Oleg Lachka. Of course, our faction will support this important bill. We have repeatedly stressed the importance of solving the problem of the residents of the hostel, which is more than 500,000 Ukrainians across Ukraine, who have lived in these hostels for 30 years since Soviet times, have earned their own corn and then these miserable square meters of housing and can't get their property, can't rent them, sell them, buy a new place. That's why we demand that this bill be adopted as soon as possible, finally restore justice, because I've been personally engaged for three years, in the Kropivnica question of several dormitories, where people have been tried for years, they've been tried, they've won dozens of courts, but they still haven't gotten ownership of their dormitories. So this is a matter that needs to be resolved. Moreover, the issues of the hostels, which have become morally outdated, do not solve the housing problems of the Ukrainians. Today, there is a need to restore youth loans for Ukrainians, loans for housing. What can leave young Ukrainians here in Ukraine? Guarantees that they will be able to live here, that they will be able to establish families here, and that they will live where their children live. If a young person does not have a home, he will never live here. So the restoration of credit, the restoration. To give housing to young people is the most important promising tasks that Oleg Láška's Radical Party has to face. We have a clear plan on how to solve this issue and we will insist that these issues be resolved in the Supreme Council as well. And future President Oleg Lazko will solve these questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u49	Thank you. Please welcome me from the "will of the people" group, National MP Feldman. He passes the word to Pisarenko. Please, Mr. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u50	Thank you. In fact, the question is quite resonant, and we face in everyday life often with our constituents who come up with the problems of hostels, because this is a question that has been going on for decades since the Soviet era, and people would like to own a normal home and, of course, get normal services from utilities and housing in order to live a normal everyday life. For example, there are a lot of problems that need to be addressed both at the legislative level and at the regional level. Like in Kharkiv, for example, there's a question with a dormitory in Cylinograd, 22/39, where the distributed parts of the premises, which are already privately owned, are part that is not yet private, and of course there are problems that residents of hostels can't get their own housing. We will support all initiatives aimed at improving the living conditions of citizens, but what I want to say is that we have another debt to which we need to reach -- dormitories of students. If we don't deal with this issue right now, we're going to see that the number of students who are coming to Ukraine to learn, and who could be Ukrainians learning here, is declining, including through living conditions for students. For example, in the past seven years, only 70,000 Ukrainians have gone to other countries. And that includes not only the quality of education, but also the possibility of living in student hostels. That's why we need a big university support program here and a place where students can rest and live during the learning process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u51	Thank you. Colleagues, a few factions failed and failed to sign up for discussion, but they express this desire. I'm asking for two minutes to give the Kodola People's Deputies of the People's Front, then the Odarchenka People's Deputies of the Fatherland, and then finish our discussion with Mrs. Natala Kralovska of the Opposition Block. Please, Mr. Kodola, you have a microphone. Please turn it on. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u52	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209 constituency. Dear colleagues, as co-author of this important bill, as a substitute for the head of the PIC, the City Building Committee, I would like to encourage colleagues to mobilize and support this important bill in the first reading. I would also like to ask the government to speed up the introduction of an appropriate state-wide destination program for the transfer of hostels to the property of territorial communities. Because it is this Parliament that has passed an unprecedented and revolutionary bill that. Its main objective is to protect the residents of hostels, those who have lived, in fact, not one generation and still cannot own their homes. So we ask the government to do just as fast as we can and together to allow hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen to own their own homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Yuri Odarchenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Odarchenko, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, this bill certainly needs to be adopted immediately because, unfortunately, people in Ukraine today cannot afford housing. Credit has an excessively high interest rate, and the population's income is very low. So today the granting of rights to people living in hostels, to privatize them, is very urgent. I'm chosen for the town of Herson. And what I want to say is that there are a lot of examples in Herson when these hostels were illegally included in the statutory funds of enterprises. And there are several cases on my mind that also apply to the Herson Combin factory, when only at the direct initiative of Julia Timoshenko, who was Prime Minister at the time, were excluded from the statutory funds of enterprises and people were given the right to privatize them. I agree with the reporter that today's process of privatizing dormitory rooms is very regulated. The owners have to transfer them to municipal property, and then the city has to make a privatisation decision. It's not going as fast as we wanted. Because cities tend to place the previous owners under conditions for repairing these hostels. And that's why it doesn't actually work. So the continuation of the moratorium on the alienation of these rooms, the continuation of the right to privatize rooms, is very urgent. And the "Fatherland" faction will support the adoption of this law in the first reading and in general. But the government needs to work to create real lending conditions, so that Ukrainians can actually get an apartment, not just on TV.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u55	So, dear colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement from the opposition block faction. And in two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Let me remind you that once the decision is made, it will be a day-to-day session of two draft laws, so I ask everyone to be in the workplace. Now the final speech is the Royal Natalia Juryovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this is an important bill, and we support it. But, you know, we're starting work today in the new year. We would also like to start adopting the most up - to - date and most important bills today. And the first thing people expect from you is lower tariffs and lower gas prices. All factions, almost all factions of Parliament signed Bill 9230. And we have asked the head of Parliament to put it as a prime draft so that we can now make decisions about lowering the price of gas. You all know that it's only November that people's debt on housing and utility tariffs has increased by 8 billion. Today, the debt is almost 50 billion dollars. Such a situation threatens to collapse in both the communal and social spheres today. And we demand that Decree 9230 be considered and that you and I be able to make such a small one, but a gift to make is a fair decision about reducing the price of gas for the population. This is the first decision you and I should make today. And we hope that we will have enough time to unite our efforts, regardless of our political views, and to protect people from cold homes, from housing, from the draconian tariffs set by the government. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman, please, Bill 92. I'm ready for consideration and we're ready to support it, vote and lower the tariffs twice right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u57	Thank you, colleagues. The discussion is over. Once again, colleagues, once again, I remind you that when we discuss the bill, it is only for this bill to be considered. For Mrs. Natalia, I remind you that there is no committee decision and I have no legal right to bring any bill before me without a committee decision. And for everyone else, I would like to remind you to speak only on the subject of the bill during the discussion. If there's another talk going on, I'm just going to turn off the microphone. The discussion is over. Let's move on to making a decision. Everyone please take up their jobs. I would like to remind you that during the discussion, all the factions and groups supported this bill. It must now be supported by a vote. Please take up jobs. And I ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. I would like to remind you that immediately after the vote, the inclusion in the agenda for the adoption of decisions 9406 and 9075 will be two draft laws. Therefore, after the vote, I ask you not to disperse, but to stay in the workplace. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to Section VIII, paragraph 3, of the Act on the Realization of Housing Rights of Guests (No. 9102), which is proposed by the Committee, on the basis and as a whole. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we vote, we vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:46:36]] For 241 The law is passed, colleagues. Hello. And don't walk away, please. The agenda will now be for the day session for decision-making. The first is the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the continuous supply of electricity to operators providing utility services and correcting prices/tariffs for utility services (9406 and 9406-1). Andreyewsky raised this question on the Conciliation Council, and I ask everyone to support the proposal to include the agenda for the decision. Please vote, please support 9406 and 1. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. [[13:47:36]] For 172 Next is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to extend the simplified procedure for the reorganization of public and municipal health institutions (9075). It is suggested that the agenda of the day be put in order for the decision to be taken. Please vote, please support. Voting, supporting. 9075, we vote. [[13:48:20]] For-151 There are no votes under either. And too big a breakup, it doesn't even make sense to put it again, colleagues. Work with factions, and if there are voices, I can put maybe another day. Yeah, yeah. So, colleagues, we didn't get into the agenda. And we turn to the following question: the draft Act amending the Criminal Code on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Traffic Safety and the Exploitation of Transport (No.8184). It's a second reading, it doesn't need a vote. All I care about is, who's gonna report it to the committee? Pantyhose? Who will report from the committee? I invite you to report to the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Palamarczuk. Colleagues, few law enforcements, please remain in place. There's not a lot of law in this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u58	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Your point is to take a comparative table to the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Safety of Movement and Exploitation of Vehicle (Registration No. 8184). I would like to remind you that, in the first reading of this bill, the co-author of the act, the Ukrainian National Deputy, the King, has proposed that the proposed amendments to articles 186 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and 187 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be excluded from the body. The proposal was supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 8, 2018. The bill was adopted on the basis of amendments that were made to the transcript at a Parliamentary meeting. The bill received 12 amendments from Ukrainian national deputies. Of these 3 amendments are included, including in part, nine - rejected and amended 1, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12. The largely rejected amendments contradict the concept of the bill, namely the proposal for such a qualification and a sign of the use of an electronic device to conceal interference in the work of technical means of protecting and blocking stationary or mobile objects for the purpose of obtaining unauthorized, unsupervised access to them in part three of article 185 and in parts two and three of article 289 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. All justifications in the table are indicated. The purpose of the bill is to hold criminal responsibility for the illegal possession of a vehicle using an electronic device to interfere with the operation of technical systems for the protection of stationary or mobile objects. A proposal is made to support the proposed draft registration number 8184 for the adoption of the law on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u59	You're done, aren't you? So, colleagues, right-wing authors, I'm asking you to prepare, I'm reminding you, not much right. I'll read the papers, the authors will announce it. 1st. Don't insist. Third. He insists. Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u60	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. In fact, even though this bill is not large enough, it is quite important and contains very serious and important changes. And the question is, how will they continue to work? Amendments 1, 2 and 3 refer to 185 articles, which refer to the use of so - called electronic devices for concealed interference in technical systems. The conclusion of the General Legal Office suggests that no term can be used that is not in the entire legislative field. This is contrary to article 8 of the Constitution, the principle of the fundamental rule of law as a legal definition. Therefore, it is not possible to introduce into a particular part of the Criminal Code concepts that do not exist in the legal field, as this will lead to too much discretion at the level of investigation and possible abuse and will contain appropriate corruptive risks. So I would still like to go back to the moment of the vote, to the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u61	30 seconds, please. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u62	Return to 1 and 2 corrections and delete this option because it will lead to very serious abuses. I ask you very much to listen to my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u63	Thank you. And you say, on your amendment 3, you insist on voting now. No, it's not. On the 6th, you don't insist. Only 1-a and 2-a. 7th. The author does not insist. 8th. 8th insists Sidorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u64	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Article 289, which contains changes proposed to it, also contains serious novels. We firmly denied at the first reading stage that the level of criminal responsibility, that is, the degree of social danger, would be attached to the value of the stolen vehicle. Not only does it not fit the doctrine of criminal law, it simply contradicts both common sense and the principle of social justice. Because it turns out that if dear Mercedes is stolen, such a person will bear a more serious criminal responsibility, and steal the old Žigla or the old Moscow or the old Zaporoznik, it will no longer contain such a level of social danger. This does not conform to the principle of the rule of law and equality before the law. So we'd like to exclude the norms.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u65	Are you insisting on an 8th vote, Mr. Ruslan? No, it's not. Yeah, 9-a. Don't insist. 10th. Don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. 12th. Don't insist. So, Mr. Mikolo, there was only one serious warning to the law, Sidorovich, about 1 and 2 points, and I ask you to comment before we go to the vote. And please invite everyone to the hall, in two minutes we'll move on to making a decision. Please, Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u66	The committee discussed the amendment and rejected it. So I'm counting that just let's put it, this amendment, for confirmation, if it gets votes, it's going to be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u67	How can you do that? Then tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u68	Put the first line on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u69	I mean, put the first one on confirmation, right? And then the whole law will pass or will not pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u70	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u71	Colleagues, you've heard the position and the committee. It's about the first amendment, the confirmation, and then the whole law. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. The procedure is: I'm going to put the first confirmation check first. Please, have a seat. If it's confirmed, we're voting the law with it, if it's not confirmed, we're voting without it. You got it, right? Ready to vote? So, colleagues, first vote. I'm betting on confirmation of the first amendment. Who supports the committee that approved the first amendment, please vote and please support. Vote one for confirmation. Whoever supports the committee votes in favour. Excuse me. So, of course, for support. The supporter of the first article, please vote and please support. First amendment, to support the first amendment. Please vote, please support. First revision support, vote. [[13:57:28]] For-143 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, we can move on to the adoption of the law. Colleagues. So, colleagues, we've recorded all the conflict. I understand that there is general support for this law in the hall. Everyone, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. You're ready, aren't you? And I am voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the Inevitability of Penalty for Certain Crimes against Property, Traffic Safety and the Exploitation of Transport (No.8184), second reading and generally. Please vote, please support, colleagues, we vote carefully, we support. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We vote, we support, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[13:59:02]] For 196 Colleagues, I'll put it back on the table, only we don't have one faction voting, it's greatly reducing our chances. Mr. Anton Gerashchenko, please consult on the 1st amendment, because I feel that everything is going to be bad if we don't find the compromise. So my first suggestion is to go back to Bill 8184. Please vote and please support the return, please support the return. Please vote, we vote in return. [[13:59:54]] For-189 Even less, colleagues. So now I'm going to announce, I'm going to continue the session for 15 minutes, now there's going to be compromise and we're going to vote. A second reading is proposed – there is a compromise. Yeah? So please all mobilize as much as possible, colleagues, come into the hall, please all take up jobs. Don't leave the hall, colleagues, during the vote. I'm going to make the next suggestion that we send Bill 8184 to the committee for second reading again, and I ask everyone to vote and support, colleagues. This is the joint position of the committee and please vote, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. We vote, second reading again, yes, once again. Vote please, colleagues. Every voice matters. Support me. Vote. [[2:01:02]] For 197 We don't have a second reading. Colleagues, please gather around, come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. As long as they're in the hall, I'll give you 30 seconds to enter the hall. Please explain the point of the law, 1 minute before the vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'd like the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. Don't go out now, come in. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u72	Dear, honourable, distinguished national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian citizens, the honourable presiding officer, the essence of this law is very simple. We have crimes like carjacking, and unfortunately there are a lot of them. Today, you can go online and buy an Internet scanner that allows you to break into a car, and it is completely unpunished. The main idea of this law is to introduce responsibility for those who use electronic means to break our cars, the cars of all Ukrainian citizens. There are tens of thousands of people suffering each year, and there is no punishment. As for self-help rights, it's a different responsibility for different cars at their values. Let's adopt this law now, send it to read again, but we're not going to lose it. I have a request to vote on all factions and MPs and non-partisans. This is the question of the electorate of all the deputies: the opposition and the overpowered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-15-m0.u73	So, colleagues, everyone's in the hall, and now I'm putting the vote first -- go back. Please, everyone, take up your jobs. Please prepare for the vote. So, the first question is the return to draft Law 8184, please vote for everyone, please support. For coming back so we don't lose the law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Don't leave the hall. [[14:03:12]] For 210 I'll put my colleagues back on the line. If there are no votes, the law will have to be rejected, it will be wrong. I'm asking everyone to focus. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 8184. Please support and vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Keep it up, fellows. [[14:03:44]] For 207 It's too big a breakup. Unfortunately, my colleagues, I'm announcing the draft of Law 8184 to be rejected. So, colleagues, we've made two positive decisions, one law in general, but our key work will be after lunch. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. At 4:00, I ask everyone to come to the hall to continue our work. At 4:00, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall.
