ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. There's a tablet everywhere to figure it out and figure it out. Please have a seat. So, colleagues, we take jobs, be nice. Good morning, distinguished newly elected deputies of Ukraine and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The ceremony for the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which was elected on July 21, 2019, declared open. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Dear colleagues, today we are saddened to mention our defenders who died in the struggle for independence, sovereignty and integrity of Ukraine. Because of their feat, we are now safe and peaceful here, and we have the opportunity to work peacefully on the laws. Five years ago, regular units of the Russian aggressor army secretly attacked Ukrainian soldiers under Ilowaysk. This war crime is proven, and punishment is irreversible. Ukraine remembers the tragic and at the same time heroic pages of its history: Beresteczko, Kruti, Ilovysk, Airport, Debaltsevé. Thus, our independence was created in a fierce, uncompromising struggle. May we be worthy of the fallen knights of Ukraine! Everlasting memory and glory to our heroes! I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear newly elected Ukrainian National Deputies, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to call the eighth and all those present in the Hall, to extend a warm welcome to you with the election of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Wish for fruitful and constructive work in the sole legislative body of Ukraine, the higher representative body of the Ukrainian people. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The President of Ukraine, Vladimir Aleksandrovich Zelenski, participates in the solemn session on the occasion of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Hello. [[Applause]] Church of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the occasion of the formation of an oath by the newly elected National Deputies of Ukraine: Ukrainian National Deputies, Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groysman and members of the Government; Ukrainian Presidents: Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andryovitch Yuschenko, Peter Alexeiovich Prashenko; Heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, previous vocations; former Prime Minister of Ukraine; President of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of the National Security and Defence; Head and members of the Central Election Commission; Head and Judge of the Constitutional Court; Head of the Supreme Court; Head of the Office of the Ukraine; Head of the Supreme Prosecutor of the Public Prosecutor of the National Court; Head of the Supreme Court of Justice; Head of the Supreme Court of Justice; Supreme Court of Justice; Supreme Court of Justice; Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of the Republic of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine of Ukraine of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine; Supreme Court of Ukraine of the Republic of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine of Ukraine [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Highly respected foreign guests are participating in the High Council of Ukraine. Vice-President of the European Parliament, Clara Dobrev. [[Applause]] President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, George Cereteli [[Applause]] Vice Speaker of the Knesset State of Israel Israel, Israel Aichler. [[Applause]] Member of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Defence of the Bundestag of the Federal Republic of Germany, Head of the German-Ukrainian Parliamentary Group Omid Nuripur. [[Applause]] Head of the Secretariat of the European Energy Community, Janez Kopach [[Applause]] Vice President of the World Congress of Ukrainians, Helen Kosherna. [[Applause]] Director of the Representation of the World Congress of Ukrainians Sergey Kasianchuk [[Applause]] Representatives of the diplomatic corps, public organizations, and the media are participating in the Summit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, honourable national deputies, in accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite you to the rostrum of the oldest elected national deputy of Ukraine, Yulia Yakovič Yooffe, to read the text of the oath. [[Applause]] Dear newly elected national deputies for the formation of an oath, I ask all national deputies to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m0.u2	Dear newly elected Ukrainian national deputies! I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of Ukraine’s people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-08-29-m0.u3	Thank you, Julius Yakovich. Everyone, please sit down. Honourable National Deputies, for the ceremony of signing the text of the oath by the Ukrainian People’s Deputies, are scheduled for up to 13 hours, at the suggestion of the Preparatory MP. The act of signature by each member of the jury takes place on the second floor at six desks of registration. After signing the text, the National Deputies hand over to its employees the Apparatus, get a certificate and a breastplate of the People’s Deputy, a ballot, a reference and information material, and register for participation in the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. It will begin at 1300 hours here, in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The preparatory parliamentary group will generalize the outcome of the oath and report to you before the opening of the first session. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome all of you with your oaths, and the solemn session on the occasion of the oath-making of the Ukrainian National Deputies, elected on July 21, 19th, I declare closed. Good luck!
