ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall and take your places of work. So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:04:38]] 342 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Simeon Igorovich Semenchenka. And so today, colleagues, is Journalist Day. And on behalf of the Supreme Council, I want to welcome all the journalists with a professional holiday. Thank you very much for your responsible work and your high social mission. It is gratifying to note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a leader among the parliaments of the world by the number of accredited journalists. In particular, over 5,000 certificates were issued by the Council’s apparatus for this session. Let's welcome our journalists, especially frontal journalists, without whom it's impossible to imagine the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome! With a holiday! With a professional holiday! Also, colleagues, yesterday, and for me, and perhaps for many of you, there was some disturbing information that the President of Ukraine had been instructed to announce to the Minsk group an initiative that Ukrainian military personnel should not open fire in response to an attack by a Russian aggressor. We only have one killed Ukrainian soldier and 12 wounded today. When we don't respond to fire and attacks by the aggressors, our dead are getting more and more. We've been fighting a national liberation fight for five years, and we want to report, and I want to personally inform President Vladimir Zelensky, the new president-elect, that the ban on shooting back -- that's not the way to peace, that's the way to surrender. And we will not allow the surrender of Ukraine to the Russian aggressor. And I'm sure this is the position of the Ukrainian people today, and I'm sure the President of Ukraine has to adjust his position and have respect for Ukrainian soldiers who, at the risk of their lives, defend Ukrainian independence every day. We won't allow surrender! And, colleagues, I want to tell you the general plan for today. I want to remind you that we are finalizing the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. We have less than 100 bars left. And at 10:30, I think we'll finish our review of the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions. And I urge everyone to fully mobilize at 10:30. All national MPs must be in the hall to enable us to make one of the most important decisions of the Ukrainian Parliament. Then it is very important for us to support the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on Change and Supplements between Ukraine and the European Energy Community. Colleagues, it will then be very important for us to adopt several safety laws. And I hope that we, with a high level of mobilization, will be able to enact security laws and put into the agenda, and vote on both the Chaplains Act and the Military Hostages Act. That's why I urge everyone today, colleagues, to maximize mobilization. I also want to remind you that today we are going to go over the law, the code, the election code on open lists. Today is a responsible day, one of the most responsible days of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I urge everyone today to mobilize, to work actively in the hall. And I'm sure we can make today productive and effective. But before I go to the right-hand side, I want to report that there's a statement from two factions in the Presidency, two factions ready to replace it. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Radical Party faction Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. In addition to the zero-diot proposal that came out in Minsk yesterday, not to shoot back when our military is being shot, Zelensky proposes another, he thinks, brilliant proposal is to hold a referendum on Ukraine's NATO membership. I recommend Zelensky instead of reviewing the Constitution to do it. In the Constitution of Ukraine, Parliament voted and set a course for Ukraine to join NATO and the European Union. The President's task as guarantor of the Constitution is to carry out the Constitution, not to review it. Moreover, we are not being taken to NATO today because there is no necessary level of development and preparation. Therefore, instead of reviewing the Constitution, to implement regulations that will allow Ukraine to become a member of NATO as soon as possible and to protect its security and the lives of its military personnel. Instead, I demand that Zelenski hold a referendum on the fate of Ukrainian land. Zelensky's team wants to sell the land to foreigners, they've prepared an appropriate draft of the Land Market Act. And this will be one of the first laws that plans to consider Parliament a new calling. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, article 13, Ukrainian land belongs to the Ukrainian people. Neither Zelensky nor anyone else has the right to decide the fate of Ukrainian land without the people. Therefore, to whom the Ukrainian land, which it feeds, has the exclusive right to determine the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainians. In a referendum, ask questions about the fate of the Ukrainian land. And let Ukrainian peasants tell them whether they agree to sell land to foreigners or whether they are for Ukrainian land to feed Ukrainian people and Ukrainian nation. The sale of Ukrainian land to foreigners is the sale of Ukraine. It's the same kind of capitalization before the challenges of today's civilization, as well as the offers in Minsk to raise your hands, to capitulate and not bounce back when you're being shot. Therefore, Ukrainians must decide the fate of the earth. Not the Greens, not the transnational corporations, not the glytes that led the people to the pen, now they want to take away the land for three copies, including the Ukrainian people in the referendum. So we propose to organize and hold a referendum, to decide on the fate of Ukrainian land. I am absolutely sure that most Ukrainians will oppose it. And then the authorities won't be able to extend any land market to foreigners and transnational corporations. I demand that Zelensky obey the Constitution, not the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u3	Thank you. So, colleagues, we move on to the first question of order of the day. This is a continuation of the draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 1098). And I invite you to the podium of the committee's deputy head, Oleg Vasilovich. And I urge everyone to do a very dynamic job. I want to remind you that yesterday we ended up on Route 669. I'm usually going to call those adjustments that are rejected. Anyone who wants to be confirmed, by raising his hand, should inform me that he intends to put one in for confirmation. So let's get started. 673. Don't insist. 727th next. Don't insist. 729th. The author does not insist. 730. Don't insist. 731st. Don't insist. 732nd, Caplin. Don't insist. 737. The author does not insist. 730, Olena Sotnik. Mrs. Olena, 739? Don't insist. 740th, Lapin. Don't insist. Next up, 743rd Bird. Don't insist. 744th, Pisarenko. Don't insist. We've only got a few rights left, colleagues. We're going faster than we could have anticipated. 745th. Don't insist. 746th. This is the last amendment, the author does not insist. So, colleagues, so we've completed our consideration of the rights to the draft Law on Temporary. Mrs. Olena, call the number. So, colleagues, we've finished the law review. But now I want to give the committee a closing word for the speech to sum up all of our discussions that have been going on. In some ways, we've been looking for compromise, and actually this compromise is going to sound like Cooper Oleg Vasilovich. And I don't think there's going to be any objection in the hall if I give the closing statement five minutes for the performance. And I'm asking the heads of factions for five minutes to maximize the mobilization of MPs into the hall. So the closing word is Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u4	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear TV setters, radio audiences, journalists! We have completed our consideration of one of the most important, in my opinion, of the bills, I would say, in the history of parliamentaryism. Remember when we came to Parliament, 2014-2015, how many parliamentary requests were announced from the rostrum? So much was needed even on Friday. Then it became less and less and less. How many MPs have we written in various institutions? There are fewer, fewer, and fewer. Let's think about the story, like in the late '90s, in the early 2000s, when an enterprise, a state institution, a utility came up with a parliamentary request or a parliamentary request from a national deputy, a manager, or an immediate attempt to correct the flaws, or, excuse me, he was preparing three envelopes, so those mechanisms were working. Where are they now? They're gone now. We ask why trust in Parliament is so low. And because Parliament itself has cut down these mechanisms of influence on officials, on public authorities, it has effectively abolished the mechanism for the protection of citizens' rights. That's why citizens don't trust us, because they can't find protection with a national MP when his rights are violated. Why is that? And that's because, let's think about how many of the High Council investigators caused someone to go to jail or at least get out of office. Remember? I can't either. This law, it restores the status of parliament, raises the role of parliamentaryism in the parliamentary-presidential country. And I'm convinced that it's going to take a little while after this law has become effective -- and the national MPs who are going to work in this room, they're going to feel that there's a mechanism, and any request we make at the request or request of an elector, a human being, a citizen, a Ukrainian, they're going to find their extension, a person gets protection, and the appropriate villain is going to be punished. That's what this bill is all about, that's what it's all about. Well, of course it's impeachment. Well, what's impeachment? For someone, it's just a word, for someone who's a pianist. In general, it is the sword of the damocles, so that he does not steal from people. This is the damocle sword that hangs over the heads of most presidents in the world. Most countries have a law on impeachment, and not "old England", but in the United Kingdom, as early as the 15th century, they created this institution of impeachment. But was it often used? They tried twice in America. We know how it ended. In Europe once, in Lithuania. We can also mention a few countries that we do not want to compare very much with ourselves. But the active institution of impeachment is that fear of the presidents from the fear of the impeachment that the Damocles sword hangs on the wall, and when it's made every important decision, it has to look at that damocle sword and watch, or it's already crawled over the ceiling to fall on the president's head. As long as there were no presidents in America, almost every office raises the question, if anything he's doing wrong, there's a shadow of impeachment that immediately. becomes president and starts not to do what civil society doesn't want to do. We've worked it all out with you, we've gone a hard way of drafting this bill. There are two small moments left: the use of the word "right" and the word "authority". We had a professional discussion about this, and I've been working on, let's say, the very text of linguistic character, please the apparatus and the legal, scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council just to see how the word "right" or "authority" should apply correctly, after the amendments that we discussed. It's there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u5	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u6	It has no effect on the essence of the law; it will only improve the text in terms of the application of the rules of the Ukrainian language. And there was also an argument about "relationship" and "applicable." It doesn't affect the essence of the law either, it doesn't matter in fact, but by the rules of the Ukrainian language, I think we need to make appropriate adjustments if the speakers say that's the word that needs to be used. And then, on behalf of the committee, on behalf of all of you, I thank you all for staying indifferent to such an important bill that you have taken the most active part in its discussion, in its work. And I have great hope and I very much hope that you will vote. And thank you very much if you vote. And I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u7	Thank you. So, colleagues, thank you also for the work and the regulatory committee, and the report to Kupryenka Oleg Vasilovich. In fact, we're not going to go back to any revision, we can vote for the outcome. But I was approached by factions asking us to give one minute at a time by factions so that we could see the faction's willingness to vote. We've got seven more minutes, and I'm a minute away. And I want to make a note that now, during the session, there's a committee meeting going on. I ask that you tell the representatives of the Apparatus that the committee cannot last during the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask all committee members to return to the voting room while there are statements from factions per minute, that is enough time for the national deputies to return to the hall. One minute at a time. I'm starting with "Peter Dust Block." Arthur Gerasimov. Then it's the People's Front. And so in a single minute, I'm giving all the heads of factions the opportunity to express my position on this law. And I urge everyone to enter the hall and prepare for the decision. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u8	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! This bill is -- and there aren't two thoughts about it in this room -- overweight for our country today and overweight today in the fight against corruption. So I would like to say that the faction will support this bill. I appeal to all my colleagues now to assemble, unite, and support this bill with as many votes as possible. And, dear colleagues, we've been going through this for a long time, we've gone through all the necessary procedures, they've been okay. I would like to thank a committee that worked very well. I'd like to thank all the right-wing authors from Peter Dustenk's Block, Self-Help, from other factions that really worked very hard to make this law as good as possible and more effective as possible in fighting corruption. Now I would ask everyone to unite and support this bill in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u9	Thank you. From the Anointed People's Front. One minute, Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u10	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. First of all, I want to say that this result of work is the result of work. For many years we have been working on this law. We need to understand that we have no other option today than to adopt this law, to support the majority of the votes of parliament. Because this law, which has been required by us for many years and by civil activists, and representatives of various political forces, political parties and factions in this room, we can now adopt that legislative act that will solve many of the problems involved in parliamentary control, including investigators and special commissions. And what's more, in this law we've actually prescribed a procedure, a clear procedure that provides for an impeachment procedure for the President, which our state lacked. To this day, therefore, many questions will be removed with the approval of this law. The People's Front will support a unanimous legislative act, and it requests all political forces, all conscious national MPs, to join in supporting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u11	Thank you. My colleagues, I would like to reiterate that in five minutes we are moving on to making a decision. I ask the heads of factions to maximize the mobilization of MPs in the hall. Five minutes later, we're voting on the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Opposition Block. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u12	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! This is a very important bill that defines the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our faction will vote in favour of this law because it is an important law not only for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but primarily for Ukrainian citizens, so that we can fully defend the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens whose representatives are in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine all Ukrainian national deputies. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, but above all I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we still have Law 5211. This is a law that brings the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into line with the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines Ukraine as a parliamentary-presidential republic. So I'm asking you before we go to the vote of the Electoral Code, this is a law that we can go through literally in 1 hour so that we can call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine next.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u14	So that we can pass on the full Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the next Supreme Council of Ukraine, so that it fully complies with the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u15	From the Self-Help faction of Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u16	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Colleagues, I already said yesterday that this is not really one of the key to establishing the power of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. I very much hope that we will accept it today. In order to understand our citizens, apart from the interim commissions of inquiry, this law also regulates in the IV section the special features of the special interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 111 of the Constitution. That's what it means. an article that sets up the impeachment procedure. So in fact, when we vote in favour of this law, we solve a few questions at once. We are dealing with the issue of proper parliamentary control. We're dealing with possibilities for the opposition to balance and influence coalition activities, including if there's criminal inaction. We solve the issue of the role of Parliament in control and we solve the issue of impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u17	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u18	The Radical Party faction supports the President's impeachment bill and the interim commission of inquiry. Our team is among the co-authors of this bill. The President, regardless of his name, must be under the control of the citizens and the law. But that's not enough. The next decisions to be taken by Parliament without delay are to remove the inviolability of the President, the deputies and the judges. There's nothing to drag on and hide from the President, the judges or the MPs for this inviolability. And the third key decision that our team is offering to the country is to reduce the number of members of the Supreme Council to 250. 450 is a lot. Half of them don't go to work, they get big wages, they don't have a conscience, they don't come to work, they don't work. Therefore, the reduction of the deputies to 250 people, the lifting of the integrity of the President, the judges and the deputies. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u19	From the Fatherland faction, Sergey Sobolev. To prepare is Victor Bondar. Get ready. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, our fellow MPs from the Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko, Andry Kožemiakin, are co-authors of this bill. Sadly, though, even the first option did not include a number of key positions. And that's why we're very grateful to the profile committee and the head of the working group for the fact that the key amendments that were made by the deputies of the Fatherland faction were taken into account 100%. This makes it possible to claim that this law will be effective, that executives will be clearly accountable in accordance with legislation for misinformation or timely information. The Fatherland faction will support this law. But we believe that changes should be made immediately to the Law on the Rules, where the work of most opposition and the key positions that allow it to be settled for the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u21	Thank you. Victor Bondar from Rebirth Group. And two minutes to vote, colleagues. Everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Respectful colleagues are certainly one of the most important laws Ukraine has expected for almost 28 years. Parliament must vote on this law and finally become an active, very influential body in a state that will control all state bodies, including balancing any president that will be in the future. You know that no president wanted to adopt this bill because they were afraid that there would be an investigation into the activities of officials in ministries, departments, state-owned enterprises, any resonances in Ukraine. And those temporary commissions created by the Supreme Council were toothless and unable to conduct full investigations. Today there is a chance to resolve this issue, to create a bill that will allow the creation of commissions that will actually conduct powerful investigations into the activities of both presidents and ministers and other officials in the state of Ukraine. Thank you. And that's a very important question. Voting and supporting. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u23	Thank you. So statements from factions and groups are completed. And we can move on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall from the towers. Leave the government beds and take up jobs. We are moving towards the adoption of one of the fundamental laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that will strengthen parliamentary control and that will address the creation of both temporary commissions of inquiry and temporary special commissions. This is our great contribution to the development of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And I am convinced that all national MPs should support this law. This is our contribution to the future, this is our contribution to the development of parliamentaryism. And now I want everyone in the workplace. I'm going to remind myself that I'm going to put to the vote the second reading committee and, in general, the technical law so that the apparatus can resolve the nuances that arose during the discussions. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm waiting for more, yeah, I'm waiting. Colleagues from the towers! Tell the camera we're already making decisions. Everybody in place? Can we vote? So I'm voting on the draft Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (No. 1098) in second reading and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We vote in unanimity and we support. We vote yes. We're backing it up. [[10:35:56]] For 279 The law is passed. I welcome the entire Chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the adoption of this, to my conviction, historic law. I'm asking everyone to stay where I am. I'll read the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 93, "National Front" – 67, "Resistance Block" – 26, "self-help" – 13, "Radical Party" – 14, "Fatherhood" – 17, "will of the people" – 1, "Party "Resurrection" – 9, "non-fractional" – 39. The entire hall is united, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is united. Some say we don't work, some say we work, and we work effectively. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to be in position. And once again, welcome back. I'd like the next law on ratification to be passed very quickly so that we can move forward in a dynamic manner. So please, colleagues, stay put, don't leave now. We move on to the next issue of the agenda. This is the draft Law (0227) on the Decision of the Association Council between Ukraine and the EU. I request the first vote to vote in favour of the summary procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of the ratification. Vote. [[10:37:30.]] For-174 Decision taken. I invite you to the report Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna. And please, very concisely, we have limited time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have a choice that depends on the success of our integration of Ukraine into the energy markets of the European Union. This approval of the Decision of the Association Council between Ukraine and the EU on the update of Appendix XXVII to the Association Agreement will show to the whole world that you support the direction the Ukrainian people want to move. This decision is an indicator of Ukraine's and the European Union's willingness to increase energy cooperation with a view to achieving integration, de facto market integration. The approval of the Association Council Decision is a prerequisite for our energy dependency, which our citizens have been waiting so long for. The updated Appendix XXVII to the Association Agreement provides new energy standards that will bring Ukraine closer to full membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u25	I'm sorry, don't leave the hall. I'm addressing all the national MPs. Go back to the hall. There will be a vote. I ask everyone to return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u26	We do. The European Union is committed to providing, jointly monitoring with Ukraine the implementation of directives and regulations under this energy supplement. And we're creating a two-way monitoring mechanism. This plugin allows us to move towards sectoral integration among those priorities that we have set for ourselves under the Association Agreement. I ask you to support this decision and ensure the irreversibility of the course of European integration of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, I want to report that for months, the Ministry is waiting for these laws to be passed. They've been waiting for months for us to vote, and some of you can't stay in your workplace for a few minutes. That's why I forbid you to leave the hall. Everyone please take up their jobs. We have a high concentration rate. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. And don't leave the hall. So I'm asking everyone to take jobs. Heads of factions, help keep the MPs out of the hall. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to get ready. I am voting on the draft Act on the Decision of the Association Council between Ukraine and the EU on amendments and additions to Appendix XXVII to the Agreement on Association between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand (No. 0227), on the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, vote for everyone, please. Go back to work. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Every voice. We vote responsibly, agreed upon. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. [[10:41:30.]] For 231 Decision taken, colleagues. Next question, I ask everyone to be just as careful and stay in place. Next: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts implementing European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation (No. 10183). Just a few rights in this bill, so I'd like everyone to be on the spot. And I invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial policy, Krivoša Hennady Grigorovich, to report. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Mr. Chairman, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, on 29 May 2019, reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation (registration No. 10183). After consideration of the bill, 63 proposals and amendments were submitted to the committee, including 29 amendments taken into account in whole or in part and 34 in nonconformity. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority gave a general conclusion: "The bill can be adopted on second reading, provided that the comments are taken into account." In particular, it has been noted that the bill replaces part three of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment with two new parts and takes effect on the day following the publication of the Act. At the same time, part three, if this bill is adopted as a law, will contain one paragraph. At the same time, in accordance with paragraph 3 of section XI, paragraph 1, of the Act on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking of Organic Production, which has already become effective and is in force since 2 August, emphasising the 19th year, it is envisaged to amend part 3 of article 2 of the Law on Technical Regulations and Assessment of Conformity by supplementing it with paragraph 7 of the new paragraph. Therefore, if this bill is adopted as a law of amendment, as provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Products, it is not possible to make changes to part three of article 2 under the law of legal engineering. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I would like to point out that chapter I of the bill should be supplemented by paragraph 15 of the following content: "paragraph 1 of section XI, paragraph 3, of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking of Organic Production" (Reports of the Supreme Council 2018 No. 36, article 275). As a result of the review of the comparative table to Bill 10183, the Committee decided to introduce a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation, submitted by the People's Deputies, as prepared for the second reading. and other National Deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council and to recommend that it be adopted in second reading and generally as a law with technical and legal processing, and that it take into account the above-mentioned observation by the Supreme Court of Justice of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you. Colleagues, most of the rights have been taken into account. Is there anyone who insists on editing? All right, Levchenka, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u30	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is about the second amendment. Article 172-1COUPAP, for the purpose of legal protection of appropriate social relations, needs not to be excluded, as proposed, but to be amended accordingly, since the need to maintain administrative responsibility for wrongdoing in the relevant sphere is based on a structure of legal rules that must include not only rules of conduct, disposition, but also sanctions for violations. It is imperative to leave this article behind, to replace it in some way, as my amendment suggests, but under no circumstances can it be ruled out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u31	So please comment and give me the number of the amendment. But colleagues, the longer the discussion, the less likely it is to accept. Please, Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u32	Thank you. The committee's amendment, the working group's been rejected, but if there's a proposal for a bet, don't put it to the vote, please. Edit number two, Levchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u33	Colleagues, as I understand it correctly, this is the only correction they insist on, right? All right, I'll bet you number two on the vote. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:46:54]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Please, Levechenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u34	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Amendment number 8. The proposal to exclude section 47 of the first article 7 of the Ukrainian Insurance Act on insurance for professional liability of designated bodies from conformity assessment and recognized independent organizations for damage that may be done to third parties is inappropriate. I note that this type of compulsory insurance was introduced in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment on January 15, 15. I believe that a short-term change in legislation on the same issue will not contribute to its stability, and a change in economic legislation is particularly an investment attraction in Ukraine. We have an absurd situation where this vocation adopts one norm -- January 15th, 15th, and now the same vocation after four years suggests that this rule be removed. Excuse me, this is another example of how this call works in a conjunctural way, not the way the Ukrainian people need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u35	I'm betting on the vote number eight. Whoever supports it, please vote. It's an amendment, colleagues, it's an amendment, it's not a law yet. [[10:48:16]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Amendment 23. This is actually what we're going to do here, in this bill, to bring out the requirements for construction objects, this is absolutely absurd. We have in the country the strength of illegal forgetfulness, the living space of citizens is destroyed at all times, especially in large cities, and you are proposing to facilitate further responsibility for construction. Therefore, my amendment proposes the Ukrainian Act on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment to leave it to act on construction objects, because the changes to clean up construction facilities are unacceptable, because the situation today in the area in question is so numerous and the majority of Ukrainians are suffering. In terms of construction, it is necessary, on the other hand, to strengthen the control of technical regulations and conformity assessments, not the other way around. I mean, I urge you to leave the requirements for construction facilities now, not to clean them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u37	I'll bet the vote on number 23. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:49:39]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Lechenko. Two revisions together, so give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom 223 District, Kiev City. I can see that, unfortunately, my revisions are out of the question. And as a result of that, the continuation of this call from the dismantling of the state apparatus as such and the introduction in Ukraine of a completely destructive neoliberal model of economics, where it will operate exclusively, the wild market to rule as it now prevails, but even more so. And there will be no attention, in fact, to the needs of most Ukrainian citizens, most of the Ukrainian people. You can't liberalize everything in the world in terms of today's Ukrainian economy, today's Ukrainian government apparatus. My previous claim was that under no circumstances should I exclude the requirement for construction objects. We have a total mess in Ukraine right now, a total chaos in the area of construction, where there are completely permanent illegal barriers in big cities. In my district of construction, there are dozens of buildings where the builders enter and break the City Activity Regulation Act, violating the city's master plan, under the cover of the Kiev City Authority, under the cover of Vitaly Volodymyrovich Klicka, destroys public space. This law also introduces certain standards, innovations that make it easier for them to do so rather than make it more difficult. So I still encourage you not to engage in this neoliberalism, to engage in socially responsible policies, so not to take on what is unknown from the Western world, but to take on a socially fair model of economics from the developed countries. And when we're told here by various so-called reformers for years that we seem to have the most regulated economy in Europe, it's an open lie. In fact, government regulation in Western Europe, in the European Union, is much greater than in Ukraine, but the difference is that the leaders of the relevant regulators in Western Europe are working for the interests of society, not for the interests of their pockets and the governing oligarchy. So the question is not about regulators, but it's about who's leading them. So please stop playing this neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u39	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion and we're moving on to making a decision. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] What adjustments? Call the numbers. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. There will be a two-pronged vote now, and we are moving on to the decision-making process. This law is in the Euro-Integration Map. That's why I'm asking everyone, the heads of factions and committee members, to help mobilize MPs in the hall. I'm asking everyone to go back to work. After two votes, we will already vote in favour of the law itself. First, there's two revisions. First. I'm betting on a vote of 58 people's deputies. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:52:52]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Next line is 62. Who's behind it. It's a leuchenka edit. Please vote who supports it. And please take up jobs, colleagues. [[10:53:14]] For-76 The decision is not taken. One minute is the committee representative, closing statement, one minute. Everyone should be at work in a minute. Please, Squirrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to point out that chapter I of the bill should be supplemented by paragraph 15 of the following content: "Section XI, paragraph 3, of the Act on Basic Principles and Requirements for Organic Production, around and Marking Organic Production" (Reports of the Supreme Council 2018, No. 36, Article 275). As a result of the review of the comparative table to the bill, registration number 10183 was decided by the Committee to introduce a draft draft draft amending bill to certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation and to recommend that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law with technical and legal treatment and a proposal taking into account the above-mentioned observation of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u41	So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to be in the workplace during the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall from the towers, from the government beds, we're moving on to the decision-making process. I remind you, the European Integration Law, which fully unites the Hall. And I'm going to go with the additions that Bloody Man made. So I am voting on the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation (10183) with the rights which the head of the subcommittee Krivoša Hennady Grigorovich, under the stenogram, with technical and legal rights in the second reading and in general. So please vote and ask for everyone's support, colleagues. Voting, supporting. I'd like your support, colleagues. Voting, supporting. [[10:55:46]] For 230 The law is passed. And, colleagues, let's move on to the next law. Let's keep moving. Next: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that criminal law is harmonised with international law (9438). The first vote is in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. For short, we vote. This law is emphasized by both the public structures and the public organizations that have asked for our support. [[10:56:26]] For-147 Colleagues, I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. Don't leave the hall, colleagues. So you're going to back it up? I'm once again putting Bill 9438 on short notice. Please vote, please support. We're voting for a cut. We support, colleagues, we all support the group. [[10:56:55]] For-154 Decision taken. And I invite you to speak to Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov Sergey Igorovich. And please, very concisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u42	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Law 9438 is the law that awaits tens of thousands of people who have become victims of Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine. It introduces the spread and modern concept of war crimes into Ukrainian criminal law, and it introduces the concept of crimes against humanity for the first time. Why is this important? Today, in the Ukrainian Criminal Code, war crimes are described in only one article, and there are virtually no convictions under this article. Only punishment for war crimes will allow us to ensure that those who have committed crimes against our people in the East do not escape criminal responsibility because of the expiration of the period of time to be held accountable. Today, the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office, which is expected to attract the Russian occupation administration to Crimea and the highest management of the Russian Federation for continuing violations of international humanitarian law in Crimea, for the activities of the so-called courts and prosecutors in Crimea, for importing their population and persecuting our citizens for their political views, for maintaining Ukraine's territorial integrity. The main thing is that the people who committed war crimes cannot be amnesty, and that is an additional guarantee that under any circumstances war criminals will not be able to escape criminal responsibility. So I ask you to support this bill, which awaits all Ukrainian citizens who have become victims of Russian aggression, relatives of political prisoners who have been tortured, and those who are in Russian prisons. This is an effective mechanism for the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u43	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u44	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. To you, the bill on war criminals. The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine to ensure harmonization of criminal legislation with international law (No. 9438). The aim of the project is to criminalize such so - called core crimes under international law: genocide, aggression, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The second is to ensure that international obligations to prevent impunity are met. Thus, the position of the selected project consists of several context blocks. First block: on an autonomous regime to regulate criminal responsibility for crimes of aggression, genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The second block, which envisions structural changes in Ukraine's legislation on criminal liability. And the third block is aimed at improving the legal regime of criminal responsibility for torture. The adoption of this project will enable investigators, prosecutors and courts to be held responsible for the killing, torture and abuse of Ukrainian citizens, marauders. The looting and destruction of their property. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft as a basis. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Colleagues are only recommended as a basis. Can we move on to making a decision? I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. It is an extremely important bill to punish all those who have committed crimes against Ukraine and the Ukrainians. And I ask everyone to be there during the vote. This is a requirement of the public, and this is the support of our military at the front and our people on the line of separation, punishment for crimes, including against the civilian population. So I ask, colleagues, all to prepare for the vote and to be in the workplace. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and stay out of the hall. Be at work for an hour. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to get ready. And I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure that criminal law is harmonised with international law (No. 9438). Based on the base. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Based on the base. Please be supportive. [[11:02:20]] For 202 We didn't make it. We'll be right back. Please look who's not here, invite me to the hall. I'll read the factions. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. 30 seconds to get everyone to work. So, Peter Prashenko's Block, 76, People's Front, 53, Opposition Block, 0, why? Self-help is 15, Radical Party 13, Parenthood 14, Will of the People is 1, Rebirth Party is 3, and non-fractional is 27. Colleagues, we should be most supportive of those who have suffered war crimes. We all need to get together and vote together. I'm asking you to back up and ask everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. I ask you now to inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we are moving to a decision-making room, so I ask everyone to be in the workplace. I'll put the first vote for the return, for the return. So I'd like you to prepare. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the consideration of draft Law 9438. Please all support and please vote in favour of the return of 9438. Please support everyone, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. We'll support it. Every voice, you see, every voice has a weight. You have to be at work. Please vote, colleagues, we support. Vote. [[11:04:15]] For 210 So, colleagues, by factions. I don't understand why you don't support it. I go to factions that don't support: I don't know why. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs now. I'm asking you to maximize. Colleagues, I'm asking you to maximize your mobility, stay out of the hall. Colleagues, get back out of bed in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'd like everyone to be in position. Without this law, we will never be able to punish war criminals. As the chairman of the committee says, there will be no The Hague unless we can adopt this law now. This is the responsibility of a Russian aggressor. And I don't understand how you can not be in the workplace at this time. So, look, invite me to the hall. All units, please be advised. And I'm putting the vote back on the first sentence. During the vote, please be seated and please vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 9438. And I ask everyone to be in the workplace and vote. Vote! We're backing up! Well, please stay put. 9438 for the return. Vote! We vote responsibly. Every voice. Vote! [[11:06:46]] For 205 What's going on? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I see. I'm showing you again. "Peter Prashenko's Block" is 76 (why did it go down all of a sudden). Colleagues, don't leave the hall. People's Front – 54, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 16, Radical Party – 14, Fatherland – 14, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 1. Fellows, I'll put you back on the line. I'm telling everyone who's outside the hall: a double bill, please go back to the hall. And I go to the heads of factions. I can't do this job for you. Look who's gone, and invite me to the hall. The failure of this law is the absence of responsibility for crimes against Ukraine. I don't understand how you can be outside the hall when you vote on such bills. Look who's gone, invite me to the hall. So I'm putting it again, colleagues, and I'll remind you, according to the Rules, I can bet when there's a signal from the hall that they haven't been able to vote or the card hasn't worked. Yes. But please be in the workplace during this vote. And please support me, indeed, please. So we're ready. Yeah, everybody ready? You're ready, aren't you? And I am voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that criminal law is harmonised with international law. And I'm asking you to support everyone. I ask you to vote. Colleagues, we vote for the return. And I ask everyone to vote and support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. I'm asking you to back me up. "Rebirth," I beg your pardon. Vote. "The will of the people," please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Every voice, we vote carefully. We're voting for the return. Please support me, colleagues, and I ask you to vote. Vote. Turn on the voting system. Colleagues, carefully, carefully watch and vote. Jemmet, don't come out of the hall! Did you get a vote? [[11:09:38]] For 225 Yes. I didn't make it. Mr. Rephat, come back. Hall, vote! Please be there! So the first vote is the return. Everyone please be in the workplace, colleagues. The first vote is the return, then the basis. We're getting ready. You see, every voice matters. Don't leave the hall. We're getting ready. Attention! First vote: I ask you to return to draft Law 9438. Please vote, please support. Every voice. We vote in favour of return with care, with responsibility. Vote. [[11:10:33]] For 232 We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 9438 on the ground. We're voting on the ground. Every voice. Based on the base. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Every voice, colleagues. Careful. We're voting carefully. [[11:10:56]] For 224 What are you doing? Two people came out again. What are you doing? I'll call it by the names that come out of the hall. I'm going to call all over Ukraine those coming out of the hall. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. What are you doing, people? I'm asking everyone to be in the hall, come into the hall. Once again, the first vote is for the return. So the first vote is for the return to 9438. I'd like everyone to vote. I ask everyone to vote carefully. We're voting for the return. Vote. [[11:11:43]] For 230 We're back. Now draft Law 9438 is the basis. We're voting on the basis. Let's vote, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. Every voice. Careful. Careful, colleagues. [[11:12:04]] For 224 What's going on, guys? What's going on? What's going on? Take up jobs! Is someone playing with the law? That's no way to play with it, fellows! [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues. No, we're voting, colleagues. So take your jobs and be there. First vote: return to draft Law 9438. Please vote for the return. I ask everyone and everyone to vote for the return. Vote. Vote. There are voices in the room, we vote. [[11:13:02]] For 235 We're back. Now draft Law 9438 is the basis. Please vote, please support me as a base. We're voting carefully. Based on the base. Vote. We support you, colleagues. And carefully, every voice. [[11:13:26]] For 228 Decision taken. I'm asking everyone to stay put. Two more bills have a minimum number of rights, keep them at work. This is the time of our work, responsible decisions. Next: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning military standards (8370). There's only two revisions, just two revisions. So I'm asking everyone to be in position. And I invite a representative of the Committee on National Security of Teteruk to the rostrum. Very briefly, colleagues, there are only two revisions. So very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! It is very important that we also vote today on Bill 8370 to amend some of Ukraine's laws on military standards. The bill proposes to supplement the Ukrainian Defence Act with new terms: "military standardisation", "military standards", "NATO standards" and "standards in the defence of a NATO member state", as well as provisions for granting the Ministry of Defence powers to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence to ensure regulatory and regulatory provisions in the field of military standardisation and the definition of a military standardization body. Amendments to Ukraine's Act on Standardization concerning the non-proliferation of its sphere of action to military standards, i.e. the Ministry of Defence will apply national standards directly or by reference to them in other instruments, as well as on a voluntary basis, unless the obligation to apply them is established by legislation. During the drafting of the bill, three proposals were made for the second reading by law - enforcement entities, which were rejected on the grounds given in the comparative table of the bill. The final draft of the bill takes into account technical legal and editorial regulations. I would like to point out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority prepared for the second reading of the bill is being drafted without notice. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Please vote in favour, fellow national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u47	So, colleagues, all there are three revisions, these three revisions are Lechchenka. I want to ask you right away, are you all three going to sound like one vote? Two performances? This means that the vote will take place in five minutes. I ask everyone to be in the hall and invite everyone into the hall. So I would like to invite you to the front page of Levechenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u48	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The term "military standard" used in the bill requires further elaboration, because it is defined by the term "standard", which in turn requires disclosure. We need to look at article 1 of the Ukrainian Defence Act in the bill. Therefore, the definition of this term should be further worked out by using the provisions of other legislative acts, such as the Standardization Act of Ukraine, which defines the standard as a normative instrument based on consensus, adopted by a recognized body, which sets out rules, guidelines or characteristics for activity or results for the general and repeated use of the rules and to achieve the optimum degree of order in a given field. In view of the above, I propose in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of section 1 of the bill that the word “standard” should be replaced by the word “normal document based on consensus”. I'm noting that simply using the word "standard" can lead to more than anything, legal uncertainty and legal chaos. Please specify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u49	So I'm going to vote number one. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:17:42]] For a hundred and It's not a decision, colleagues. And the last amendment is now. All right, lock-in now. The next two revisions are given 2 minutes to Lewchenkov. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In two minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. And please turn on the microphone to Lechchenkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u50	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is about my two rights, regulation 2 and regulation 3, which is essentially about clarifying the question of the term 'NATO standard'. The bill, which, by the way, refers to and is referred to as "To amend certain laws of Ukraine on military standards", states in two places that NATO is a standard developed and published by NATO. Then there is another reference to the standard in the defence of the NATO member state, which is a standard developed and adopted and published in a NATO member state. But it's important here to make it very clear that it's a military standard, not just any NATO standard. We're talking about the defense area right now, the military standards. The thing is, the North Atlantic Alliance has a variety of standards, not just military standards. There are issues that are raised politically, economically, and so on. Given that we're talking only about military standards, in fact, in both of these cases, to add that it's not just about NATO, but it's about NATO's military standard. So add the word "military." Thank you. And please support this perfectly logical revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u51	Thank you. So, colleagues, please come into the hall and take up jobs. First I'm going to set up the law, and then I'm going to make the law. I'm going to vote first number 2 of Levechenka. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. It's a readjustment, it's a readjustment. And come into the hall, everyone, please. [[11:19:51]] For 115 The decision is not taken. And Amendment 3, this is the last, final amendment, Lechchenka. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:20:11]] For 104 The decision is not taken. So we're done discussing the law and moving on to the decision-making process. Ruslan, come back! Come back, Ruslan! Come back, please, we're already voting. So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. Everyone please be in the workplace. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on military standards. Please vote and support in the second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote. We're supporting, we're voting! [[11:21:08]] For 215 And we have to go back again! So please arrive and be in the workplace. So I ask the factions to invite all the deputies to the hall. Please inform the secretariat that we have completed our discussions to return from the watchtowers to the hall. I'm going to put the first vote on the return and the second vote on the whole. Ready? Is everyone in place? You're ready, aren't you? Please, I'll put the vote first: go back to draft Law 8370. And I ask everyone to vote for the return. So, colleagues, please vote, please support the return. Vote, support! Every voice! Careful! [[11:22:05]] For 219 We didn't make it. Okay, I'll do it again. But that means only one thing you have to see is who hasn't arrived and invite you to the hall. I'll read the factions and ask everyone to come into the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 85, People's Front – 56, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 13, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 12, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 1, non-fractional – 33. Colleagues, a few votes are not enough. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'll put them back. Look who's gone. Please be in the workplace, not running during the vote. So I'm putting the first vote back. I ask you carefully and responsibly. The first sentence is to go back to draft Law 8370, and I ask everyone to vote. Support, "Rebirth" and "The Will of the People." Support me. Colleagues, back up! Moscalenko! We're voting for our return. Let's back it up. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice! Vote. [[11:23:44]] For 226 We're back, colleagues. Now everyone in the workplace. Please, everyone in the workplace. Get ready. Attention! I'm voting on draft Law 8370 in second reading and in general with technical law. Everyone, everyone votes carefully. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. Carefully, we vote responsibly. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. This is a reform of the Ukrainian army! [[11:24:25]] For 229 The law is passed, colleagues. Next. Similarly, a bill in which there is little law, so I ask everyone to stay in the workplace. Next is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (as regards the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of the integrity of Ukraine) (3433). And I invite the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigori Mihajlovich to report. Please, Mr. Gregory. And I'd like everyone to stay put.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u52	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! As early as October 18th, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, in its first reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending legislation on the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who participated in the protection of Ukraine's territorial integrity. This is a project submitted by the People's Deputies of Bielecki, Lucenk, Petrenko. The second reading of the 55 amendments was made, including 20 amendments, taken into account partially – 17, edited – 10 and rejected 8 amendments. I want to point out that this is a bill that belongs to those who are called "borrowed." We often turn to other countries for support in the protection of independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of Ukraine, and sometimes we have different answers. But there are citizens who voluntarily came and defended sovereignty and territorial integrity with our citizens by military volunteers. Unfortunately, there is a practice where such citizens have a risk that they may be issued or fall into the territory of an aggressor country. To prevent this from happening, a bill has been drafted to give such citizens the right to Ukrainian citizenship and also to secure them from unwarranted extradition to countries that are not friendly to Ukraine. I am addressing the national MPs present in this room, regardless of the factions to which they belong, to support this bill in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u53	So, colleagues. So it's just a couple of straights. Now, I'll give you my word, but please don't delay the proceedings, don't delay the proceedings, please, and I'll ask everyone to come to the hall. So, whoever insists, raise your hand. Turn the funnel on. It's recording, isn't it? Is there anyone who insists on editing? No one insists. So, colleagues, the committee worked very well. All the adjustments were taken into account. Experts from all factions have confirmed the high quality of this law. Now it's important for everyone to come into the hall. It is now important for everyone to be in their workplaces and prepare for the vote. So, colleagues. Heads of factions, invite all national deputies to the hall. It is our duty to those volunteers who have come to protect Ukraine at the time of our country's greatest challenges, who have become side by side with the Ukrainians to protect our country. That is why it is our responsibility and our responsibility to our brothers who fought for the will of Ukraine. So I ask everyone to support and be in the workplace. And I ask everyone to vote. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons who have participated in the protection of Ukraine’s territorial integrity and integrity) (No. 3433). The committee proposes to accept, on second reading and in general, technical and legal rights. Please vote for everyone and please support me, colleagues. We'll support the volunteers. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Every voice. Please be supportive. Please vote. Vote. [[11:29:28]] For 230 The law is passed. The factions, please. The factions. And everyone stay in the workplace. "Peter Poshenko's Block" – 87, "The People's Front" – 56, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 15, "The Radical Party – 17, "The Fatherland" – 13, "The Will of the People" – 4, "The Rebirth Party – 2. Welcome to the committee and all the authors. Colleagues, it's going to be an important block -- getting into the agenda of the day session. That's why I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. But before we move on to this block, before we move on, there's a statement from two factions about the break. But they're ready to report for one minute, and in a minute there's going to be a day-to-day session about the chaplains, about the hostages. That's why I'm asking everyone to be there and invite whoever's not here. Now I give Dombrovsky the floor, one minute. And then we vote in favour of getting into the agenda of the day session. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, on behalf of many national deputies and drafters of the bill, and factions, I ask you to add 10357 to correct the technical error, to restore the EU’s household to 30 kilowatts of the right to build on the ground, and 10307 is to support our Ukrainian miners. Thank you very much and please support, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u55	I very much ask 10357 on the EU's home vote. I insist. We have to face people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u56	So, colleagues, let's move on to the inclusion section in the agenda of the session. Colleagues, first of all, are the laws of surrender. This is our great responsibility. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace, and I'm asking you to vote. Stand by, colleagues. I am the first to put the draft Military Chaplainship Act (10244 and 10244-1) into order for the day’s session to be decided. Entry into the agenda of the adoption session today and now. Please vote. Please support 10244. Vote. We support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making now in this section. Vote. We support the chaplains. [[11:32:11]] For 230 Decision taken. Next bet? Next, attention! Two minutes, we'll be right in, colleagues, two minutes. The next is 10335, also about the chaplains, another bill. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. We'll get through quickly and get into the Capals. Let's go through the next one. [[11:32:44]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The next is a draft of the Terrorism Act (8337), a colleague. I ask you to support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:33:11]] For 203 The decision is not taken. Next is the draft Law on the Legal Status and Social Guarantees of Persons Who Are Illegally Deprived, Hostages, or Convicted in Temporaryly Occupied Areas of Ukraine (8205). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote. [[11:33:42]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again. Yes, so I'm once again putting 8205 -- a bill on the release of hostages -- into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote carefully and responsibly. One voice! Vote. We support the release of military hostages. Vote. And backup! Let's vote carefully, colleagues. We vote in favour. [[11:34:19]] For 232 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, the next two bills are very important. It's about illegal wealth. The working group worked for two months on the committee. And I'm asking you to put the agenda of today's day session on two bills to determine yourself -- the MPs, the groups and the ones that have been filed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, first of all, I'm proposing that we put the draft of Law 10110-1, "d" into the agenda of the day session. And they're all alternative, aren't they? Just one. The committee turned it down. All right, day-to-day session 10110-1. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] "D," "d." 10110-1, "d" is a day-to-day session. Please vote and support, colleagues. Vote! We're backing up! It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. "D," I said "d." [[B in m in s a l in]] I've said it five times. I repeat: 10110-d. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Vote. [[11:35:47]] For 226 Decision taken, colleagues. Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the confiscation of illegal assets of persons authorized to perform functions of the State or local self-government (10358 and 10358-1). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. They're all fine in the daytime. You can get to know them, not scream when you vote: what we vote about. [[11:36:22]] For 205 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law. 10359 is a day-to-day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote! [[11:36:49]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. And the next one. Draft Law 10237, 10237-1 is a day-to-day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision 10237. 10237. [[11:37:13]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now the chaplains, the final vote. It's 10357. The last was 10357, with whom Dombrovski spoke. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote on the agenda for the day session. Vote. This is Dombrovski, who performed Dombrovsky i Vojtsiecka. It's him. [[11:37:52]] For 214 It's not a decision, colleagues. Attention! It's the chaplains, colleagues. We're going to the chaplains, colleagues. Now we go to the Chaplains Act, colleagues. I ask you now, colleagues, to vote everyone. Five minutes. We'll take the chaplains for five minutes. Five minutes -- we'll take the chaplains, colleagues. So I'm announcing a transition. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll put it back on later. Now we have 20 minutes for the chaplains. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Colleagues, next in order of the day, about the vocational superiority of education. Roger that. Vocational excellence in education. Okay. Mr. Spiowakovsky, fine. We're moving on to the draft Vocational Education Act. I hope my colleagues don't insist, we'll take him in quickly, and then the chaplains, the colleagues. Well, colleagues, please! I beg you, we are now moving on to the next issue of the agenda. Let's do it intensely. We'll catch up with the chaplains. 8321 d.o.b. I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Sperm Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Mr. Spivakowski, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u57	Dear friends, dear colleagues, I'll be quick. There was a meeting yesterday with the Committee on Science and Education. We are now introducing a bill that regulates the work of the entire educational network. It's 300,000 people in Ukraine, it's students, it's teachers, it's 709 educational institutions. Dear colleagues, we did a great job, the committee did a great job, the society carried out, the education people, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. We agreed on all positions. We found a common language on discussion issues. Both the Supervisory Board and the funding problems, we're introducing for the first time a diversification funding system for educational institutions. We agreed even in extreme positions today. SunSanich Marchenko, I'm also asking you not to bet today, because there are only 29 rights left that we haven't accepted. In fact, 250 of our licenses were taken completely, 40 of our licenses were accepted partially. Dear friends, dear colleagues, there will be no other chance. If we don't accept this bill today, they'll be in a completely legal vacuum from September 1. From the map of Ukraine, the legislative map of Ukraine, technology and colleges are disappearing because the Higher Education Act of the 14th year no longer lists them as higher education institutions of the I-II level. And that means that Minfin will continue to decide whether to finance them or not or just shut them down. Dear colleagues, it's not a joke, it's really a serious situation. If we don't vote now, if we start new discussions now, there will be big problems. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you all to unite now, to vote - and to allow the education chain that forms the sergeant's composition of our economy of Ukraine to work and live. Dear colleagues, the Science and Education Committee voted 5:0, five in favour of five. So today I ask unanimously for this decision to be supported. It's not a rush, we've been working on this for over two years. No discussion. I very much appeal to all of you to vote and to put a dot on this issue. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u58	Colleagues, I've been approached by all the members of the committee who all support that positions have been agreed upon. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, and we're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now. For those who had a discussion: I'll put the chaplains in place, just as briefly, and then re-inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Guys, whatever you want, I'll put it back on. But let's support education, support the chaplains, and I promise I'll re-enter the agenda. I'll put it on, I'll put it on. What are you yelling at? Get your men together! So now we're going to make a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to be in the workplace. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Heads of factions, look who's gone. Let's start the vote of a colleague. I ask you to take up your jobs and prepare for the adoption of the law. I want to remind you, this law is supported by all the factions in Parliament. Don't leave the hall. Mr. Yuri, please don't leave. One minute. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Vocational Higher Education 8321-d on second reading and generally on technical law. Please vote, please support. Vote. Every voice. For education. Vote, colleagues, support. Voting, supporting. [[11:44:21]] For 236 The law is passed. Hello! Colleagues, now as short as chaplains and inclusions. It's just as short. Okay, okay, turn it on. Okay. Quickly. So there were requirements for the inclusion of the first 10237 and 10237-1. Nina Southerne asked for support. So I'm asking everyone to support this, this is about farmers, and I'm asking you to support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. 10359. 10359, right? Come on, tell me. I'm saying 10359, right? 10359 is about state regulation. Thus, the inclusion in the agenda of the day’s session for decision - making. Please vote, please support. Vote. Vote please, 10359. [[11:45:40.]] For 211 Next. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'll put it up again, colleagues. Attention, colleagues! The first one I'm betting on is 10359 -- this is a proposal from the Southern Committee on Farmers, supported by Ukrainian farmers. And I'm once again putting it into the agenda for the decision-making session. Please vote, support Ukrainian farmers. Vote. Vote. Support for Ukrainian farmers, we vote. [[11:46:30.]] For 247 Decision taken. The next one they want. Next. Please listen for at least two seconds and then shout from the scene. The next one is 10357. This is the bill that Dombrovski and Vojcitsky made at the beginning. 10357 is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:47:14]] For 219 Colleagues, pay attention! The next one, another one is required, 10307 is a mining bill, an order of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote on the mining bill. The Shakhtar Bill on the National Budget of Ukraine, this is the allocation of funds to miners. Include in the agenda of the day session. Okay. 10307. There's a room requirement, I bet. 10307 is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. Vote. And, colleagues, we're going to the chaplainship, we've got 10 minutes left. I ask the authors to prepare themselves. [[11:48:04]] For 228 It's on. So, colleagues, I have a request: both military uniforms and chaplains are very brief. Please, let's do both. So let's go to the draft Military Chaplainship Act (10244 and 10244-1). I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, for the reduced procedure. We're backing it up. Very short, Andrew. [[11:48:46]] For-191 Decision taken. Report, please, Unguryan. Briefly, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u59	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, we have finally come up with a very important issue that we should address and work out with the beginning of the armed aggression that the Russian Federation has begun against us. It's a complex law on regulation of military chaplainship, on protection, on social protection of military chaplains, who, alongside our soldiers, are on an advanced course, providing both spiritual and psychological support to soldiers and officers of the Ukrainian army. Our bill, introduced by the Interfractional Union "For the Spirituality, Morality and Health of Ukraine", proposes the establishment of the concept and substance of the capital, the establishment of an organizational structure of the military chaplainship for the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the Ukrainian Border Service, for the National Guard of Ukraine, for all military formations. And unlike other bills, we propose that chaplainism be on a disciplined, serious basis when the chaplain is attached to the military unit and is in a relationship -- both combat and disciplinary and financial -- with the Ministry of Defence and with the appropriate military unit so that he can contract and work and provide services to spiritual, psychological. It's very necessary. The All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations has long since asked us for support, and today we have to adopt this very important historic decision -- the first in Ukraine of the Military Chapelage Act. May the Lord help us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u60	Thank you. From the Herasim committee. Tell me what law you support. I understand that support is the law of the River, actually. Gerasimov. Then there's the Whitelighter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, distinguished Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished Ukrainians! There is an overwhelming subject to be settled by Parliament today, a bill on military chaplains. So the committee considered at its meeting all the laws that were passed in the session hall. And as you saw today in the vote and consultation between the factions, it was proved that the bill was most drafted by 10244-1. Request to assemble and support 10244-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u62	Thank you. One minute, Oksana Bilozer. And let's go to the vote. Don't leave the hall! I'm asking everyone to come into the hall! Oksani Bilozer, and the vote. I ask everyone to come into the hall, prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u63	Dear fellow national MPs! I want you to look at the bill that I'm introducing, number 10244-1, because it's the only bill that's fully in line with the Universal Council of Churches. Not enough, I'd like to thank Aunty Richkovy, who, along with 500 of our chaplains, worked on this single system bill for three years since President Dustenk's submission. What is his uniqueness? In that we adhere to the rules of the Constitution and separate the Church from the army, the state separately. It is by dividing the chaplainship that we allow every citizen who fights in the war to receive pastoral care from his chaplain. I won't talk much, because you know it. The only thing I want to point out to you is that they are unique people who carry a unique mission to the Ukrainian people because they, with prayer on their mouths and with a prayer book, have come to the front to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u64	Thank you very much. Let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, colleagues. I'm asking you to sit down, and I'm voting on the draft Military Chaplainship Act (10244-1), authorship of Richkov, Bilozer as the basis. Just on the ground. I ask everyone to vote. Please support me as a base. Vote. I'll support the Ukrainian military chaplains. We're voting together, responsibly. Vote, support, colleagues. Vote. I'll support the Ukrainian military chaplains. [[11:53:46]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues, in place. Boys, they say, in general. May I? Let me put it. Who's to it? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I don't mind. Guys, you can't. No, you can't. Next up, colleagues. The next is a very short law. Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Liability for Unlawful Acts in respect of State Rewards, Unlawful Clothing. (9217). Colleagues, this is second reading. I'm asking everyone to stay put, stay out of the hall. And I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the Law Enforcement Committee has prepared a comparative table for second reading of the draft law that has just been announced, 9217. There were 23 amendments, of which 15 were taken into account, 8 were rejected either entirely or partially. Thus, the project is prepared for second reading. It is proposed: first, in the new edition of article 186-1, illegal action on State awards; second, to establish administrative responsibility for the illegal wearing of military clothing with signs of distinction between military personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The third is to establish criminal responsibility for the desecration or destruction of the graves of persons who participated in the secession and deterrence of the armed aggression of the Russian Federation or of another state recognized by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as an aggressor. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of Bill No. 9217 on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u66	Colleagues, all the checks are accounted for. We can move on to making a decision. I urge everyone to enter the hall, prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please. Colleagues, please come into the hall. A fully harmonized bill, supported by all. And I ask, colleagues, to be in the voting room. So, are you ready, yeah, everyone in the room? I am voting on the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Responsibility for Unlawful Action in respect of State Prizes, Unlawful Clothing and Abuse of the Place of Burial of the Defender of Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity of Ukraine and Some Other Persons (9217) on Second Reading and Overall. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to be in the hall. Please vote, please support. Vote. We're backing it up. We're backing it up. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. [[11:56:58]] For 216 Colleagues, please go back to work. I address the heads of factions, I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. Please let us know that we are now making a decision. I'd like you all to come into the hall, and I'll put you first for the return. So the first vote, and I ask everyone to participate in the return to draft Law 9217. Please vote, please support, for your return. Colleagues, carefully, responsibly, every vote for the return, every vote. Voting, supporting. Colleagues, we vote for the return. [[11:57:52]] For the 220. Six votes. I'd like to be in the workplace. Look who's not around, invite me, colleagues. Six votes. Ten seconds to invite the deputies into the hall. I'll read the factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 78, "National Front" – 57, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 16, Radical Party – 17, "Fatherhood" – 15, "will of the people" – 3, "Resurrection" – 3.31 – non-fractional. Colleagues, let's mobilize, six votes. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to vote now. The first vote is for the return. We didn't have six votes, I'm asking everyone to vote. The first vote is for returning to draft Law 9217. I ask everyone to vote, colleagues. We vote in favour of the return, carefully, responsibly, each vote. We vote back, we vote back. Careful, colleagues, every voice. Vote. [[11:59:16]] For 230 We're back, colleagues. Jaroslav Moskalenko came, and this is a victory. And I'm putting draft Law 9217 in second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote. Please be supportive. Very carefully, colleagues, and responsibly. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[11:59:48]] For 235 The law is passed, colleagues. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Colleagues, pay attention! And I'm asking now for Singerowski. One minute is Singakovsky. I'm asking everyone to stay put. I'm asking Singakowski. We still have a decision about the Lycan. I'll continue for 15 minutes. Please, Singerkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u67	Dear friends, dear colleagues! First of all, I bow low to you for voting 8321-d. But for him to work, there are two technical bills that settle the issues, because the new name came up. We're out of level-II higher education institutions, and we're out of the concept of "professional higher education" and "professional higher education." So there are two bills, 8460 and 10323, that's the tax context. They're technical, they're dealing with the launch issues of 8321-d. So I ask them to put up, vote, and run them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u68	Thank you, colleagues. No discussion. 8460 and 10323. Colleagues, let's support the committee. So I'm going to do 8460 first. I'm putting him on the stand right now. Who is it to discuss it by means of a reduced procedure? 8460 and 10323. No, colleagues, listen up! Attention! Attention! Come on. Who wants to go to these two bills now? Who's to it? Is there a simple voice? Who would like us to move now to the consideration of draft laws 8460 and 10323, please vote. Please be supportive. Who wants us to move on to their consideration now? Vote. Vote. [[12:02:00]] For 214 Not enough voices, colleagues. We won't risk it now, we won't risk it. Guys, I'm gonna ask you one more thing. Colleagues, one more thing. We have a very short request from Lvivščina for a draft decree on changes to the Lviv region's watering system. Lucienka? Okay, let's move on to the next question of the day. This is a draft decree on the memory of a fighter for Ukraine’s independence, Hero of Ukraine Leukka Lukyanenka (9281). So please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the abbreviated. This is the next question of the order of the day. The next question is the observance of memory. [[12:02:49]] For 202 And I invite you to the representative's report, first of all, let's have someone alone. Krulko is 1 minute and Burbak is 1 minute. And, colleagues, please don't break up, don't break up. Please report, Queen, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u69	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. This is an extremely important bill that I believe should unite the session hall. It is an entrenched memory of a fighter for Ukraine’s independence, a man who spent more than 20 years in Soviet camps for the independence of our country, the Hero of Ukraine, Leuk Lukyanenka. He is one of the most prominent political and public figures, the direct founders of the modern - day Ukrainian state. Member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who was in the "Universal Union of the Fatherland" faction. The First Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine to Canada, awarded many medals, including the Order of Liberty. I believe that before the memory of Levek Grigorovich Lukyanenka, it is the responsibility of our session hall to accept this decision, to perpetuate his memory and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u70	Thank you, colleagues. Let's move on to making a decision. Let's go. Okay, one minute from the committee, and we're voting. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. The committee is the Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council has considered this decree. I'll be brief. Asks the committee to make the following changes to the preamble: in the first part, after the words "didn't happen" add the term "the struggler for Ukraine's independence"; in the first part, the word "known Ukrainian dissident" changes to "the prisoner of the Soviet regime"; in the first part of the term "the four calls" change to "the first, second, fourth, fifth, consonant"; in the second part of the term "the fighter for Ukraine's independence" replace "the right defender". The committee recommends a draft decision to support the committee as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u72	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Guys, take five more minutes. I'm asking everyone to get ready. And I put to the vote a draft decree on the remembrance of the leader of Ukraine’s independence, Hero of Ukraine Leukka Lukyanenka (9281), to be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals made by MikolaKnezhick under the stenogram. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote! We're backing up! We're voting carefully! [[12:06:12]] For 223 Colleagues, I'll put it again, but it's embarrassing not to be in the hall during this vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, please prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall. I'm asking the first question: to go back to the draft Order on the Emancipation of the Warrior's Memory for the Independence of Ukraine, Leuk Lukyanenka. First vote, please come back. In return, please vote. Please vote. Vote. Those who abstained, colleagues, someone made a mistake. [[12:06:55]] For 226 We're back. Someone made a mistake and held on, look. Careful. And I'm putting draft regulation 9281 on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Each vote is carefully, responsibly voted. We honor the memory of Leukka Lukyanenka. Vote. We support the draft decision. Vote. [[12:07:33]] For 239. It's been decided. Colleagues, followed by technical decree 8292, a technical decree to change and establish the boundaries of the Sokal district of Lviv. I ask very briefly. The first vote is in favour of a reduced procedure. Please vote and support for the cut. Very short, colleagues. It's a technical brief question. Please support everyone. Vote. [[12:08:09]] For-191 So I invite you to Fedorak's report, one minute. Fedoruk! Mikola! One minute out of place, right? Out of the way. And we vote. Everyone in position, please be. Everyone please be in the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to support this decision and vote in favour. It's a change in the territorial system and the elimination of the so-called mother. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u74	So we move on to making decisions, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. Jaroslav, please support us. And I'm voting on the draft Order 8292 on the establishment of the boundaries of the Sokal district of Lviv in general. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Every voice is important. Please support the decision. Vote. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. [[12:09:21]] For 225 One voice. Colleagues, come into the hall, come into the hall. Be in the workplace during the vote. So the first vote is the return. I call for a return to draft regulation 8292. Everyone please be very careful. And the first vote is for the return. Vote. Jaroslav, we vote, we support the return. Vote. Careful, every voice. Vote. [[12:10:02]] For 223 Well, colleagues, 223. Well, what are you doing, colleagues? Please! I can see we didn't make it. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Jaroslav, I have a huge request, don't leave. We're short two votes. Please. It's important to the local community. Do not go out at the moment of this vote. So I'm proposing to go back to draft regulation 8292. And I would like everyone to vote carefully. I'd like your support, colleagues. Every voice. We're voting for our return. Please vote for the return. [[12:10:44]] For 226 We're back. Now I ask everyone to be seated, colleagues. And I'm putting draft regulation 8292 on the ground and in general. Every voice. In general. Every voice matters. Vote please, colleagues. Come into the hall. We're voting in general. Support, colleagues, support. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Please vote, colleagues. We're voting 8292 as a whole. Vote. [[12:11:26]] For 233 It's been decided. Colleagues, now, pay attention! Everyone be seated, colleagues, please. There is 10359, which we have included in the agenda, there is a request to consider. So it can only be on condition. 10359. Who wants us to go to Projection 10359 right now, please vote. 10359. We vote who supports us now. Vote. Who Supports? To see if there are voices. [[12:12:13]] For-200 We'll break in. Again. Who wants us to go to 10359 right now? Who wants us to come to 10359 right now, please vote. Who's to it? No, who's to vote. [[12:12:40]] For 205 Well, we'll just fail. Okay, if we fail, then it's your responsibility. Who wants us to consider it as a reduced procedure? Please vote for the short cut. For short. [[12:13:10]] For-183 Vote. One minute, the Southern Nina Petrovna. And let's go to the vote. Everyone please be in the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, thank you very much. But this bill needs to be considered very urgently. You know, as of July 1, this year, we're going to be in a position to license the fuel supply. In preparation for the practical implementation of the bill, however, it was found that a large number of operators, especially agribusiness enterprises, mining companies, motor vehicles do not have some of the necessary documents to obtain a permit for fuel storage. And the fines that will begin to apply from July 1st are 500 thousand dollars. Therefore, the bill is very simple: the amendment of Law 481 "On State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products" (and from 01.07 there will be a "burner" through whom everyone understands why we are now considering) to postpone until 31 December 2019, to give another 7 months to prepare for the preparation of documents, to obtain licences. And besides that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u76	So, colleagues, I warned you there was a risk. I'm going to put it to a vote. I'm going to ask everyone to come into the room and prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on draft law 10359 on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Please vote, please support the committee's proposal. Vote. Vote, support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:15:21]] For 239. Decision taken. Colleagues, and the last two ratings. Two ratings. So first. Draft Law 9022, I conduct a rating vote under this law. Just to know how much support he has. The rating vote. Please be supportive. 9022, the next law, just rating, please support. It's just a rating so I can see the support. Next draft of the law, everyone has a day order. [[12:15:58]] For-147 And the next one is 7306, about the Customs Tariff. Only the rating vote. Who's behind it. It's just a rating vote. Whoever supports this vote, please, it's about the Customs Tariff. Vote. [[12:16:22]] For 115 Colleagues, this shows that these bills have no support. We don't have time to do anything, it's 12:16. So I want to let you know at 12:30, we're moving on to personnel issues, regulations. Three staff decrees at 12:30. But now I'm announcing for the message, please, Irina Heratchenko. A statement from two factions about a break. And I invite you to say "Maxim Burbak" for three minutes. And then the announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, we've all been here with you for five years in order to actively and effectively resist Russian aggression. We did our utmost to restore territorial integrity to Ukraine and Crimea and Donbas. And we heard some pretty strange statements yesterday from a tripartite group in Minsk about new initiatives. That's why the People's Front faction calls on President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine to immediately call on the National Security and Defence Council to discuss the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity and the conditions for such reconstruction. I want to report that this is a public position of the People's Front faction that such arrangements can only be made on Ukrainian terms. Next. Here, after lunch, we're going to be looking at the candidates for discharge from the posts of the Head of the Bureau, the head of the Ministry of Defence and the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we're going to ask the President to immediately submit to Parliament the nominations of the Head of the Board, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because they are members of the NPB and should participate in these meetings. Third. I don't think the representatives of the tripartite group can edit the norm format. The Normandy format can only be edited by the presidents of Ukraine, France, the chancellor of Germany and the President of the Russian Federation. So any statement they make sounds ridiculous. So together, we must do everything we can to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity, everything we can to ensure that our nation will go fully to the European Union. And once again, we need to call upon the Council of National Security and Defence without delay, where the main issue should be the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, the return of Crimea and Donbas to Ukraine, and on what conditions this will be a return. Only on Ukrainian terms. And I suggest we invite the leaders of the factions of the Supreme Council to this meeting so that together we can take this decision to help the President defend the interests of Ukraine. It can't be any different. Only the Supreme Council will make any decision regarding the restoration of territorial integrity and only under the conditions of the Ukrainian State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u78	Thank you, colleagues. And a few announcements. The first is from Andri Bielecki. "Please take my vote in favour of the draft Law on the Temporary Investigations Commission and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in second reading and in general because the card did not work during the vote." Mrs. Irina, please read out the other statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, there was also a statement from Oxana Jurinec that her ballot had not worked in the Voting Order for honouring the memory of Leukka Lukyanenka (9281). The Fedoruk People's MP also pointed out that his "yes" card was not working during the 3433 bill. Please count the "yes" vote. Also, YuriLevchenka’s card did not work when voting on the Law for the temporary commission of inquiry. He's asking me to count his voice in favour. Also, Victoria’s Birds did not work when voting on the bill for the temporary commission of inquiry (1098). Please count her voice in favour. Also, Rosenblatt, a national deputy, did not work on the 1098 card when voting on the Law for the temporary commission of inquiry. The Vote for Temporary Commissions of Inquiry (No. 1098) did not work. Ask him to count his voice in favor. Also, Alexia Musaka did not have a ballot in favour of this bill, 1098. Please count for "yes." And also from the same, the national deputy, came such a statement, distinguished colleagues. Thank you. And there's a statement before the bureau that, according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I'm reporting the departure of the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Nedava Oleg from the deputy faction of the Party "Block of Peter Prashenka" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u80	So, colleagues, I remind you that the next one in a day is three human resources issues. And I'm asking the committees and the reporters to be ready. And at 12:35 a.m., I'm waiting in the hall to continue our work. So at 12:35, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u81	So, dear colleagues, the break time is up. And I invite all the deputies to the hall to continue our work. Colleagues, I see, after a busy job, the MPs split up, and we have to work. We have to work. As John Franco said, they work, they work, they work. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and I want to let you know that the next issues in the agenda are the draft staff regulations. This is a draft decree on the resignation of Ukrainian Foreign Minister Klimkina, a draft decree on the release of Poltorak from Ukraine's defence minister, and a draft decree on the release of Gretzak from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. We're looking at short-term human resources. And that's why we're going into the debate, and during the discussion, I'm confident that the national MPs will return to the hall. So, I'm announcing the move to the Ukraine Klimkina Foreign Minister's Retirement Order and the Klimkin Liberation Order of Ukraine's Foreign Minister (10367 and 10346). I will give the floor first to the representative of the committee and then to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Radi Stefanchuku of Ruslan Alexiyovich. So let's start the discussion. And I invite you to the Gopko Anna Mikolayevna report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u82	So we're looking at the number now?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u83	Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u84	What number are we looking at right now?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u85	10367 and 10346. We have a joint discussion, the vote will be separate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u86	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting, considered, inter alia, the draft statement by Minister Klimkin requesting his resignation from the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. And on June 5, 2019, members of the committee supported the resignation of Minister Klimkin and registered a separate decision that we are asking to support. Also, colleagues, literally yesterday at a meeting of the committee, when we have considered the submission made by the President of Ukraine concerning the dismissal of Klimkin from the post of Foreign Minister, the committee, without cancelling its previous decision, namely the adoption of his resignation, which was approved at the meeting of the Committee on 30 May, on the support of Klimikin's resignation and the submission of a draft order to the Supreme Council. That's why the committee also supported the majority vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to liberate Klimkin from the post of Foreign Minister, introduced by the President of Ukraine. Indeed, colleagues, over the past five years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which held some 150 committee meetings, over 1,000 400 protocol meetings, together, we have promoted national interests in foreign policy with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely, opposed the aggressions of the Russian Federation in the military, economic, energy and information spheres, made efforts to strengthen the policy of pressure on the Russian Federation through sanctions and would like to really point out the important role that we have been able to build such a team, a national assembly, either at parliamentary assemblies or at other international sites, in a single voice. And also today, I would like this tradition to work in the international arena as one national assembly with President Zelensky and the future foreign minister, it has continued. During our discussion, members of the committee, when we were on the Committee of Mr. Klimkin, asked clearly different questions, such as Klimkin's last submission to the three national deputies, and that this is an entirely non-European practice, and this is in particular contrary to the Law on Diplomatic Service. One of the members of the committee is even going to press charges against this last Order of the Powder to give rank to three deputies in court, and obviously we think that, by passing the Law on Diplomatic Service in this appeal, our task was to create social elevators for real diplomats, to protect them and to strengthen our diplomatic front, not to use the so-called "Diplomatic Service" clauses to give rank. Also, colleagues, we, especially yesterday, when we had a representative of the President on our committee, talked about that unacceptable situation where there hasn't been a foreign minister for years or there aren't enough deputies to attend committee meetings in a harmonious manner and commandeer the issues that are before Ukraine. There was also a question of the absence of ambassadors in important countries and the urgency of their appointment, as well as the rotations in those countries that are already sitting in 8 by 10, or 12 years in foreign diplomatic institutions without change. So, my dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the committee is now proposing to support these two draft decrees: the resignation of the foreign minister, submitted and introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u87	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u88	tabled by members of the committee, as well as a draft decree on the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs by the President of Ukraine. Given the important international developments that will take place (visiting Berlin, then visiting Toronto for a conference in support of reforms, later -- the Ukraine-EU summit), we must have a full foreign minister, but who must meet the professional criteria, patriotism. And no plans for the surrender of Ukraine that we're seeing right now sound like Kuchma's.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u89	Thank you. The report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Radi Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 3 of the first part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was introduced by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the release of Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyovitch as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Please. Two for, two for, please. It's from Peter Poshenko's Block, the Jurassic of Oxana Vasilovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u92	Please hand over the pigeon to the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u93	Dove. Dove, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Well, of course it's the President's right to file a motion for the release of a foreign minister according to the Constitution of Ukraine. And I'd like to ask my colleagues to support the President's decision to be able to form his own team, especially the external political vector of our nation's development. As for the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the policies of the Minister, who will now be released. I would like to point out that there was absolutely no problem with politics, which now appears to be very high risks at the level of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that, because of the lack of activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, there are great chances and risks that the Russian Federation will be returned to this organization at the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, even though the parliamentary delegation of the Council of Europe has made every effort to keep us on guard for four years for the protection of human rights and freedoms. On the other hand, the inactivity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has led to a virtual decision on the return of the Russian Federation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe at the level of the Council of Europe. That's why I think it's not just a vote that will testify to the right of the newly elected president to define his team in an external political course, but I'd like to ask my colleagues that we're actually giving a job, and we'll show that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was in charge of this minister, not Ukrainian, but I don't know what policy. I'd like a colleague to support the release of Mr. Klimkin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u95	Thank you. From "Fatherland" to the word "Tarassyuk," please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u96	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Ladies and gentlemen, from the outset, I would like to say that the Fatherland faction supports the submission of the release of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Klimkin. After saying this, I want to go on and talk a little bit about the last days of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Klimkin. So on April 21, there was a second round of presidential elections, in which President Zelenski clearly won. On April 26, when the second round of elections took place, Klimkin, Minister of Foreign Affairs, submits an application for the assignment of diplomatic rank to the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador to the three national deputies. What's the big deal? When we discussed the matter with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we asked Minister Klimkina the question behind the submission. He said that the application was signed by all his deputies. Well, I mean, that's not true. No deputy foreign minister signed the application for the assignment of diplomatic rank to three deputies. I want to say that the President of Ukraine has considered this submission and his decrees on April 18 and 19, almost two days before the completion of his term of office, he assigns diplomatic rank to three national deputies. Now I want to say that this is contrary to the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service. And in this regard, I believe that this issue needs serious and detailed investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u97	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u98	Please consider my statement as a request from the People's Deputy to the Attorney General's Office and the State Bureau of Investigation to investigate the illegal anti-constitutional appointment, the assignment of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u99	Thank you. From "self-help" to "self-help" to "Egor Sobolev" is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u100	We will support the release of the foreign minister who was appointed for the initiative of the previous president. Clearly, the newly elected president has the right to form his own team, including having a similar mind in this position. We would also like to draw attention to the experience of Dusty, Klimkina. In fact, these people in foreign policy have tried to make a deal with Vladimir Putin, have entered into the Minsk Accords, and have sanctioned a huge increase in trade with the Russian Federation, including through its occupied territories. What happened next, you know. Even more so are the killings of our people, the enormous illicit enrichment of the price difference that was created by war, and no promises made by the aggressor. It is impossible to make a deal with Putin, and every Ukrainian, the newly elected president, must remember this very well, the foreign minister he proposes to appoint. The path can only be stopped by military force. The path can only be stopped by the integration of all Ukrainian people around our independence, our freedom. I want to remind you of the terrible fact of our history: the previous invasion of the Kremlin, and the so-called peace ended for Ukraine when the Ukrainians ate their own children. We must not forget this lesson and maintain our dignity, freedom, and independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u101	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the MaksimBurbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the President of the Constitution hereby submits an application for the release of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of the Board of Directors and the Director of the Ministry of Defence. It's his right. But the People's Front faction repeatedly appealed to Vladimir Zelensky to apply for release at the same time as the heads of the Ministry of Defence and the Ukrainian Security Service. And this also becomes more relevant after yesterday's statements by the Minsk Tripartite Contact Group regarding the future restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity. And that's why the People's Front faction today came out with an immediate call by the National Security and Defence Council of President Volodymyr Zelenski, and to have faction heads present, because Parliament is making major decisions in this country and foreign policy, too, to discuss the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity, and on what conditions it will be restored. Once again, this is the public position of the People's Front, which we have stood for the last five years in this cabinet: that the restoration of Ukraine should only be on Ukrainian terms, that we should return to Ukraine and Donbas and Crimea. Only under such conditions can we talk to our opponents. And most importantly, why do we require that a foreign minister be nominated? Because there are now foreign visits by the President, now we need to maximize the consolidation of the anti-putinian pro-Western coalition so that the sanctions are not removed and they are extended and extended. That's what the head of foreign affairs is supposed to do. So once again, I call on President Vladimir Zelenski to have all the positions, along with the discharges, put forward so that we can discuss them immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u103	Thank you. So, colleagues, there's going to be a closing statement now, after it is a vote. So I ask all the factions to invite the people's deputies into the hall, in two or three minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Now I invite you from the Radical Party to the word of Oleg Valeriovich Ljashka. And then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u104	One of the greatest myths that Prashenko has built is that he is perhaps the most successful diplomat of all time and peoples and that without him there would be no anti-Russian sanctions, no international front or all the other achievements that Ukraine has achieved. I'm saying it's a myth, because I saw it with my own eyes when, two hours later, after the Prague speech in Paris, this organization adopted an anti-Ukrainian resolution on our Language Act. Or, for example, now that PARJE is returning to its composition, the Russian delegation, despite Russia’s failure to comply with any of the requirements of this organization. PARlS actually ignores its principles, which were created 70 years ago, and ignores the rule of law, and shows the world that they are just as unprincipled as the League of Nations, which began in poverty, because they were unable to stop Hitler. As a member of PARJE, our team in PARJE will do everything we can to ensure that there is no Russian rematch. But it must be a joint effort both of us and of the authorities. What do we see instead? When one of you says we're on the verge of a Russian rematch, the Russian rematch is already here. Lutkowski, the man Yanukovic, the representative in Minsk -- isn't that a Russian rematch? The offer of Kuchma not to answer, not to shoot when our soldiers are killed -- isn't that a Russian rematch? That's why the Russian rematch is here. I'm asking Zelenski. Where is the candidate for a new foreign minister? What policy will Zelensky pursue? Not those texts that are written to him, and then he says it's plagiarism, because those texts don't match his vision or his inner rod or his essence. We want to see his inner world: what he thinks he plans to do with the Language Act, what he plans to do with the NATO course, what he plans to do with the international sanctions. We do not see any answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u105	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u106	Someone called it, I remember, before the Green Cat election in a bag. I'll tell you worse, it's not a cat in a bag, it's a fucking cigarette case. Because the initiatives we're seeing right now in Minsk, that's surrender. And if Zelensky starts his presidency with surrender, we won't let him capitulate and put the country on its knees. He wants to be alone, let him be. We can't put Ukraine up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u107	So, colleagues, they finished the discussion. And we're moving on to making a decision. I ask everyone to come into the hall and prepare for the decision, colleagues. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And I want to remind you, we have two drafts, and I'm going to put them separately. The first draft of the ruling is 10367, it's a request for Klimkin's resignation. And the second is 10346, it's a presidential application. If it does, I won't even put the second one to the vote. So I put it in sequence. I am voting on the draft Ordinance on the resignation of Ukrainian Foreign Minister Klimkina (10367). Please vote. Vote. [[13:01:06]] For-141 The decision is not taken. Next. I would like to vote on the draft Decision on the exemption of Klimkin from the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine (10346). Anyone who supports its adoption as a whole, please vote. Vote. [[13:01:37]] For-137 The decision is not taken. Both orders are rejected. Next. Draft Decree on the Liberation of Poltorak as Minister of Defence of Ukraine (10344). I'm reminding you, it's a short-term procedure. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich to report. Please prepare a representative of the President. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! With regard to the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Poltork Stepan Timothyovich from office as Ukrainian Defence Minister. In line with the commission of the National Security and Defence Committee at its meeting on June 5, 2019, the Ukrainian Supreme Council Resolution on the Liberation of Poltork Stephen Timothyovich from the Ukrainian Defence Minister (Registration No. 10344), submitted by the President of Ukraine, reviewed the draft decree of 5 June 2019. During the discussion of the issue, the committee noted that the introduction of the application for exemption from the post of defence minister was the constitutional right of the President of Ukraine. To this day, however, the newly elected president of Ukraine has failed to announce the nomination of the future minister of defense, one who will be appointed instead of Stephen Timothy Poltorak. This uncertainty and gap between the release of an active defence minister and the appointment of a new head of defense in the face of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine may have negative consequences. In view of the above, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, have decided not to support the draft decision, and we urge the session room not to vote in favour. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u109	Thank you. I invite you to report to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u110	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine for the implementation of his competence and powers under article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, paragraph 3, of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced the application to the Supreme Council for the release of Poltork Stepan Timfiyovich from the post of Minister of Defence of Ukraine. Please support this submission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u111	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. From Fatherland, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich is handing over to Sergey Vlasyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I have a simple question for this high-priority session room: people, what are you doing? Today, the President, who received unprecedented support from citizens of Ukraine -- 73 per cent -- made appropriate draft regulations to carry out his constitutional powers. Today, this hall begins to play some completely misunderstood games. Klimkina, who broke up the diplomatic service that for two years did not appoint ambassadors who made lawyers of Ukraine in Europe, such as Poland, our enemies, not resign?Oh, my God! Indeed, the situation with Stephen Timothy Poltorak is different. Clearly, the army today is completely different from the 2014 army. And that's pretty clear. But once again, this is the President's constitutional mandate, on the one hand, and his right. But on the other hand, let's not forget the corruption we've had in the Armed Forces and in the defense complex. I once again urge the session room to return to sanity and support the proposals made by the President. Fatherland unanimously supports President Greensky's proposal to release the Minister of Defence, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Head of the Security Service. I urge everyone to vote as required by the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u113	From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u114	I ask the Ukrainians and historians to record these speeches. I am absolutely sure that after a short period of time, you will be ashamed of what you have said to anyone who talks about Zelensky’s support today. Because support is expressed in actions. What do we see? You ask: "People, what are you doing?" I have a question for Zelensky: Volodymyr, what do you do when you leave the Ministry of Defense in a war-torn country without a headmaster when you don't run for Secretary of Defense? How could an army of warlords be without a leader? Do you want to fire Half-Tork? You may have the right to do that, although I believe that Poltorak built this army in five years and today it is Europe's strongest army. And Stephen Timothyovich deserves our support and thanks to the Ukrainian people. But in Zelensky, as we can see from their offers in Minsk, another vision: they want our army to be killed and our army not to be defended. That's their plan, and that's why they don't propose to the Secretary of Defense. Because his plan is to decapitate the army, decapitate the Ministry of Defence, chaos, anarchy and bardac in the Ukrainian army, in the Ukrainian army and in the country. Green will enter the history of the Ukrainian state as President of Chaos and President of an empty refrigerator, because where the President is throwing his feet at the Constitution, where there is no rule of law, no investor will come to this country, no money will come. Ukrainians will have no jobs, no wages, and no poverty. People are waiting for the Green Restoration of Peace, the economic recovery and the victory over poverty. What does Greensky offer us today? The demeaning cost, the capitulation and betrayal of Ukraine. Half-past has to work until there's a new secretary of defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u115	From the Self-Help faction of the Shepherd. Danchenko passes it on to the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u116	Dear Ukrainians! I think today we are witnessing, actually, that queued pierre and another situation where there seems to be a mind of reason, there's a voice of this common sense, and it's worth listening to and taking away all the periphery that is going on today. Just recently, Self-Help came up with a proposal to remove all the opposition between the newly elected President, irrespective of his name, and between Parliament, in order to find consensus, to create a site where there might be a discussion, where there might be joint solutions in part of the assignments, in part of the layoffs. But at the time, almost all of this plenary hall, the political parties that outside the plenary hall have criticised the self-help proposal for the appointment of these key persons: the Foreign Minister, the Defence Minister, the Head of the Security Service. Because then we suggested that this discussion be held before submission, not in the rostrums, but between the coalitions, between the Supreme Council and the factions, between the factions. And so we can find this candidature that will be supported and submitted to Parliament by the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the President and will actually be supported in Parliament itself. Unfortunately, it was easier for everyone to blame Self-Help for wanting to take someone's authority. Today, we are reaping these results. This is the moment when there is no dialogue between the branches of power today. And that's why I want to go back to this proposal again. Before we address these issues, we need a discussion between the President, between Parliament, between the Cabinet of Ministers. I ask the President's representative to take such an initiative in order to find these agreed candidates and put them together: the question of discharge and the question of appointment. It is obvious that today we need to support the President's proposal and allow him to make his vision, but we understand very well that this is not going to happen in the hall today. And we're actually sending the country back again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u117	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u118	We're sending the country into chaos for the next month or two, maybe three more. Therefore, our proposal today is to support, and the proposal to the President's representative is to begin consultations immediately. If Parliament enters the Electoral Code today, count that at least half of July no staff assignment will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u119	Thank you. From the People's Front, the head of the MaksimBurbak faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, regarding the application for the release of Stephen Timothy Poltorak. I can tell you this: I was honored to work with Stephen Timothyovich in the first government of Arsenius Yatsenuk. And I want to remind you what was the situation when the tanks had no batteries and there was nothing to charge when there was no one to defend our state when Russia came. And Stephen Timothyovich, along with the government of Arsenius Yatsenyuk, rebuilt this state, along with the entire public, along with the whole country, we have done everything we can to defend our nation. And now the very best fighting army in Europe. I want to thank you, Stepan Timothyovich, for this. [[Applause]] Yes, according to the Constitution, it's the President's right to file. But I want to support colleagues who said, "What are you people doing?" How can you apply for the release of the head of the Ministry of Defense of the warring country that is fighting the aggressor country with Russia? Is it common sense or not? We're ready to consider the appointment of the head of the Ministry of Defense, especially after yesterday's announcements, when we should, when we heard in Minsk, that we should take the blockade and sit down. We will not support this in any way. And once again, I want to remind you of the People's Front initiative. The President should immediately call on the National Security and Defence Council to discuss the restoration of Ukraine's territorial integrity under conditions that are only favourable to Ukraine. Period. It won't be any different. So once again, the People's Front faction is not going to support the release of the head of the Ministry of Defense without the simultaneous application of assignment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u121	Thank you. So the factions will now end. Ever since Peter Dusty's Block, Arthur Gerasimov. Then Irina Heratchenko. And let's go to the vote. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u122	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, you know, when Russian aggression started in Ukraine early in 14, everyone remembers the situation in which our army, our Armed Forces, was in. Let's be honest, they just weren't real when we couldn't find any weapons, no personal protection, no pharmacy -- nothing. And it was only because of the incredible efforts of first-stage volunteers, volunteers during the presidency of Peter Prashenko that he was able to rebuild the army. And we see that today you and I are in this room also talking about not personal protection but medicine kits. We're talking rockets, we're talking new weapons. We're talking about how our army defeats the enemy and when it lands, fire starts. But what starts now, when banned, is more specifically what they want to ban from the Ukrainian soldiers fire in response. So, go out and kill people?Oh, my God! This is unacceptable. And besides, I'd like to remind a lot of the colleagues in this room who spoke about what the Constitution of Ukraine is. And under this Constitution, the Minister of Defence is subordinated to the Supreme Commander, the President of Ukraine. The Minister of Defense, I stress, is not acting as a deputy, not as a prime minister, but as a minister of defense. And that's why the National Security and Defence Committee, when it considered this issue yesterday, decided not to support Stephen Poltorak's resignation until a candidate for this position was put in place. So, colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank President Peter Dusty. I'd like to thank the Secretary of Defense, Stepan Poltorak. I would like to thank all the Ukrainian soldiers, volunteers, volunteers, who have restored the Ukrainian army and is one of the strongest in Europe, and to say that the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block will not support the resignation of Stephen Poltorak from this position until this candidature is put forward by the newly elected President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u123	Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is now invited to the floor. And then we go to the vote. Three minutes to vote, everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! I have great respect for the President's constitutional right to run for office as Foreign Minister and Defence Minister. At the same time, I think that I, and millions of Ukrainians, were deeply shocked by the fact that during the inaugural speech by President Zelensky, who had four times refused to send his message to the army, did not find words to thank the Secretary of Defense, who had been the father of the army for these difficult years and had undisputed authority among soldiers and officers. What's more, the humiliating manner said, "take the paper and write your resignation application." You know, Stepan Poltorak wrote this statement, and it ends with the words, "I have the honour." And we would very much like to see not only our Secretary of Defense, our soldiers and our officers, but also our Chief of Staff. It's very important. And we hope that he will find words of thanks to the defence minister who defended, including the right to give concerts in the peaceful cities of Ukraine for all these years. You know, obviously I can't help but touch the subject of Minsk, because today there are a lot of questions from my colleagues and partners, journalists on this issue. Of course, in this room, everyone realizes that there is no other way than through political-diplomatic negotiations to resolve the situation on Donbass. Everyone here wants peace, but not by surrender. And, you know, I want to say that in the directives given to the Ukrainian delegation, there has to be a key: neither by foot nor by step do you betray the national interests of Ukraine. Obviously, we welcome whatever steps we take regarding the release of hostages in terms of improving the humanitarian situation. Ukraine has declared truce 19 times over the past five years. But each time it was violated on the other side. And the other side, we have to start calling things our names, like Dusty and Half-Tuesday did, is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u125	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u126	This is the Russian Federation, my friends. And when our soldiers are told today not to "you shouldn't shoot first" but "you shouldn't defend yourself", we advise Zelensky to visit military hospitals where the last wounded were taken yesterday from the Lugano and the Doñaic direction. And there's another piece of advice that's very important. Dear colleagues, these directives need to be immediately enforced, and they need to be followed by another fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u127	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u128	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u129	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u130	A group that will now begin to discuss the return of the Ukrainian-Russian border under Ukraine's control. There will be no peace without it. And last but not least, dear colleagues, which is also very and very important, I want to say, let's go to the OSCE in public. Ukraine is for peace, but we expect the OSCE to work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to monitor, who is breaking the silence on Donbassa. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u131	Thank you. So, colleagues, we can make a decision, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I want to remind you that the committee's decision is not to support the draft decision. But in the House, the national MPs are determined by voting. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Order on the Liberation of Poltorak as Secretary of Defense (10344). Whoever supports this decision, please vote. [[13:20:18]] For-67 The decision is not taken. So the draft of Decree 10344 I declare rejected. And the final staff decree is 10345, this is the draft decree on the release of Gretzak from the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Teteruk Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished fellow national MPs, highly esteemed Ukrainian people! Order of the Supreme Council on the release of Gretzak from office of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence at its meeting on June 5, 19th, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich from office of the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service (No. 10345 of 30.05). The year 2019) The draft Order is proposed in accordance with article 85, paragraph 121, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich from his post as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The committee decided to recommend a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyyovich from the post of Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for decision-making. At this point, the official position of the committee ends. I'd like to add something personal. It's very important to understand that the power of power is the kind of authority that defends the peace and security of our country in the context of the aggression of the Russian Federation. And at the right time, the decisions taken, the one-managed decisions and the responsibility that comes after such decisions, the leaders of the Department of Defense, the Ukrainian Security Service, have a lot of influence on our overall security of states. So it's amazing to understand that when we're releasing and not assigning those in charge, we're actually dragging the country into the kind of chaos that dirty politicians are trying to get into. Because in this chaos, they get their desired ratings and the ability to create chaos, criticism, and the ability to raise their desired ratings. Not in the ratings on the issue, but in the fact that we will be able to manage the situation in terms of the aggression of the Russian Federation, in the condition that the Russian Federation will be every day when we do not accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u133	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u134	We will weaken ourselves, and therefore it is extremely important that, when we consider such decisions, we see at the same time who will be the successor, so that the transfer of power takes place almost one minute. And then we'll see that the leadership remains, the security services will work to counteract the aggression of the Russian Federation. And those "peace pigeons" who urge us to surrender or urge our military not to shoot back, let them move from the armored Mercedes into private transport unarmed, let them get rid of armed forces and point at their own skins, as they do not shoot back, especially when our boys are silent on the front when they are executed. Only those who are destined to be executed are not shot in response! The Ukrainians aren't like that! We'll always give it to anyone who comes to us with a gun! And we will defend our peace, peace, as foretold.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u135	Thank you. The report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Radi Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, seeing the full prospect of further introductions, looking at the presence in the hall and the activity, the President of Ukraine is making a third submission. In accordance with article 106, part one, paragraph 14, of the Constitution, the Ukrainian President introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the release of Gretzak Vasil Sergiyovich from his post as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. The President is asking for support for this submission, which has taken place within his constitutional powers, in the manner and in the order provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as asking the National Deputies not to impose on the President of Ukraine any other matters which have nothing to do with the Constitution of Ukraine to present any other candidates. It will all be one step at a time, and it will be in full conformity with both the Constitution of Ukraine and with the legislation of Ukraine. I ask the Supreme Council, as the sole body of legislative authority in Ukraine, to abide by the Ukrainian Rules, Constitution and Legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u137	Thank you. Only I would like to point out that, according to the Ukrainian Constitution, the President is submitting, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is making a decision, taking this decision in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And sometimes someone thinks that you can make decisions without consulting them, without consulting them, it's the wrong logic of a relationship with the highest legislative body of the state. I want to say my position. We need to know for certain that every day someone will be protected by our independence, and there must be a minister of defense who protects us. When we vote in favour, we probably have to know who will be in that position tomorrow. Similarly, we need to know exactly who will protect Ukraine’s security. And when we vote for resignation, we probably have to know how the highest legislative body in Ukraine decides who will tomorrow protect Ukraine and Ukrainians from Russian divers, from Russian intelligence, from Russian aggression, because it's a matter of security. And the responsible body, and this is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has to make responsible decisions, and that's how the state is built, and that's how security is built. And now I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. From Self-Help, Opanasenko. Captain. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u138	Thank you for the opportunity. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Wonderful discussions in the Parliament Hall. I am very happy that we have finally mentioned what parliamentaryism is. Indeed, according to the Constitution, this is the President's absolute authority. But we, the Parliamentary Republic, represent the people, so we have to consider any decision. Of course, I support Klimkin's resignation. But I support her as a representative of the people. No, wait. I support Klimkin's resignation. But I support him as a representative of the people, because I think he has done nothing good in his office. I support the resignation of Gretzak. Because I don't think he did anything right in the head of the Security Service. No reform. Sorry, but department "K" worked both "wet" business and continues "wet" business. Next. No normal intelligence reform. We don't see any effective work in this area. Because as a national MP I have, when I vote first, this vote is effective only because I consider as a representative of the people an effective or inefficient one or another minister or an official. So in this case, of course, we support the release of Gretzak because he was not an effective head of the Ukrainian Security Service. But I'm asking MPs not to manipulate. You're not just sitting here, you're not just pushing the buttons, you're supposed to do it carefully, coming from the work of any official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u139	Thank you. From the Radical Party to the word Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u140	I'm addressing Mr. Stefanchuk's representative. You quoted us from the Constitution. I ask that you carefully read article 106, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Constitution: "The President of Ukraine submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a nomination for office and discharge from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service." So when you're reading lectures on the knowledge of the Constitution, for starters with the President, read the Constitution yourself. At the same time as the release of the Head of the Security Service, there was to be an appointment of a new head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Why didn't Zelensky do it? Because Zelensky has already appointed a service manager. First Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine assigned his business partner to "95 Quarter" Ivan Bakanov. And in the event of the release of the Head of the SBU, it is Mr. Bakanov who will serve as Head of the Service. I'm informing society that Green Bakanov's business partner was illegally assigned to the BSS. The lie detector didn't pass, the income declaration didn't go through, the medical commission didn't go through, as prescribed by the Security Service Act, and the lieutenant's name was illegal. Soldiers on the front to get the lieutenant's name, they're spilling blood, and the comoracs from the 95 Quarter, the lieutenant's drive from the baroque shoulder, Zelenski throws. Because he's been hiding from the army four times, and he's not aware of the cost of the officer's title for which people are bleeding, not for you to discredit him. I therefore demand that the relevant authorities initiate investigations into the illegality of the appointment of Bakanov as the first head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Also investigate the illegality of the assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u141	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u142	The illegal appointment of Bogdan as Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration in contravention of the Illustration Act. And I'm going to Green again. You, Volodymyr, swore on this stand not to violate the Constitution. Keep your vows. We've adopted the impeachment law today, and I can see that you're going to get into it very soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u143	I'll give you a line after the discussion. I'll give you a reply after the discussion. It's SergeyVlasenko's "Fatherland" now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u144	Colleagues, I wanted to return to the preliminary ruling at the beginning of my speech. There's been a lot of talk about leaving the army unattended. I want to remind everyone, I have a lot of questions about the President's personnel policy, too. But I would like to remind everyone that one of the first decrees was the Chief of General Staff, the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, who is under the law headed by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And the minister is a political figure who pursues politics. So let's not manipulate. That's the first question. Now, about the Ukrainian Security Service. Colleagues, what has the Ukrainian Security Service done for five years? How many bills in Parliament to disenfranchise the Security Service, how many dozen of these bills? "Dreaming" business, "breaking" business, smuggling, political persecution. Who played the political gendarme of Dusty during the elections? Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Security Service. Unfortunately, I emphasize that. And now they're all quietly retired. I think there should be an investigation. Regrettably, the Attorney General’s Office should conduct the investigation. And I'm asking the President to run for Attorney General as soon as possible. Therefore, the Fatherland faction will undoubtedly support the submission of the President, submitted in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, despite certain exotic interpretations of the Constitution from this rostrum. We will support the submission of President Zelenski. Of course, we are also awaiting the nomination of the Minister of Defence and the nomination of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the nomination of the Attorney-General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u145	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, Andrew Levus is invited. Please, Andrew Marjanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u146	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I want to draw attention to two interesting aspects that have taken place over the past two weeks with regard to the Ukrainian Security Service. Well, first of all, really, I agree with the previous speaker about managing "K" and all the history that terrorizes business. What did Zelensky do, where did he appoint Bakanova? On the so-called "c," first of all, the management of "C" and gave the lead management a message that the BSB is supposed to fight corruption, smuggling, and that's exactly what contradicts any of our efforts to join NATO. Because NATO's first requirement for reform of the BSS is to cancel the "K" administration. That's not where Zelensky came from. Does he want to sit on the creeks himself? This is the first question. The other one. The second NATO requirement for reform of the Ukrainian Security Service is demilitarisation. What did Zelensky do with Bakanov? According to the Horoshkovsky scheme, he was rear-numbered and militarized. Do you know what they did? Because I was afraid of going to the contest, afraid of being responsible. And now you're teaching here? You're talking about the Constitution!? Third. It was a nice talk that the U.S.S.A. doesn't do anything. IN THE U.S.A., people are different, just like in Parliament. There are people on the front desk all the time, 500 people of the Ukrainian Security Service are on the front desk all the time. There are dozens of people in the hall, volunteers who have fought side by side with counter-intelligence, military counter-intelligence, national security since 2014. There are dozens of deaths in the Ukrainian Security Service! You can't open your mouth to the Security Service! Forget it! Your general criticism is like the criticism of the Kremlin's mouth about the Ukrainian Security Service. There's one more thing I want to say. The person who started his activities right here, behind this rostrum, with the violation of the Constitution -- I'm talking about President Greensky right now -- is going to instruct us in our actions and parliamentary powers?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u147	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u148	With what happened yesterday, and this is actually the first step to surrender, one thing I want to say is that it's still very good for us to get to the impeachment, very good for us to get to the impeachment. Another step in the direction of national interest in Donbassa -- we're not going to play these more games with you. Do you understand? And that's what I'm saying with full responsibility. Ukraine has buried tens of thousands throughout the last resort. Three thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u149	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u150	Three thousand Ukrainian soldiers gave their lives. What do you do now? What do you do for a living? I have a second question. What about property in those territories? Did they leave Chicken and FSB? You're actually legalizing what's stolen from Ukrainian assets, from Ukrainian entrepreneurs, from the Ukrainian state? You legalize the financing of terrorism. It's a criminal offense. You will be responsible for him sooner or later. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u151	Heroic glory! From Peter Prashenko's Block to Barna's, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u152	We respect the President's constitutional right to apply. In addition, we believe that during Russian aggression, during wartime, during the state threat, a warring country has no right to be left without superior military leadership, without a major diplomat in the formation of a continuation of the anti-putinian world coalition and without a leader of the BSS to fight properly in counterversive activities. In addition, I would like to point out some of the advisers on the left who made the so-called blockade at the expense of the Kremlin and the running oligarch who had done the appropriate damage to the state for tens of billions of dollars, and who, as a result of the enterprise, had left Kurchenka and their bandits cut, I want to point out to other counselors who, as Prime Minister in 2008-2010, had destroyed the army, disarmed the Kremlin for good and guidance. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shut up and sit down! Because I'll tell you! One second. Besides, we can also talk about those whose parents. And they have relatives of more fairies in Russia. But I'm addressing the President's advisors. Remember that the issue of security, defense, the protection of the interests of the State, the venerable ones, is far from playing the piano, even when it is not done with hands. It's a huge responsibility. You have the right to represent candidates, but remember your duty, responsibility for the state and nation. And remember the issue of treason, because this is a matter of treason from the President, a much greater responsibility that may have consequences for Ceausescu. Volunteers will not allow you to betray your interests in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u153	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u154	And before you make any suggestions, please take your static figures and go a little bit to measure, and a little bit to measure the trenches, roll a little bit with the machine, and know which side it shoots. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u155	I give the floor to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Radi Stefanchuku, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u156	That's where I'm going, yeah, can I get out of here? I can get out of here, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, all you've said about the state of the country is true. But the truth is, this is the result of your work. 16 days of President Vladimir Zelensky, I'm deeply convinced that this is the start of what will be no more in the state. There will be respect for each other's institutions, and we will not selectively radically read the Constitution of Ukraine, and we will treat it with respect as a higher legislative act of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u157	Thank you, colleagues. I would like to say a few words before the vote because there was criticism about the head of the Ukrainian Security Service. And you know, it's kind of weird in general. There may be criticism of certain aspects of the Ukrainian Security Service’s work, but all those five years ago, Ukrainian Security Service fighters defended the safety of Ukrainian citizens and laid down dozens of their lives. I want to say that, personally, Gretzak Vassil Sergiyyyovich followed the line of separation and personally freed the political prisoners. Hear me carefully, everyone who shouts. He personally went to enemy territory and personally freed Ukrainian political prisoners to return them to Ukraine! How vile it sounds when people who risked their lives protecting Ukraine and allowing us to work in this Parliament today to cast a stain on them! Come on, fellows, have the honor, just as Basil Gretzak has the honor. All the security services around the world are fascinated by Ukraine's special operations. You know what I'm talking about, right? You know what I'm talking about. And it's only in the Ukrainian Parliament that we hear dirt from one of the most effective intelligence not only on the European continent, but in the world. And this was largely done by Basil Gretzak. Let's give him a round of applause, thank you for the job. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the release of Gretzak from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Security Service (No. 10345). The committee shall request a vote. Please vote. [[13:42:50]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Rule 10345 is rejected. So, colleagues, before we go to the following questions. Thank you for your participation in our meeting, Ruslan Alexiyovich. Thank you to all the committees. We've completed our training. And, colleagues, I want to make two messages. First. When we included in the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes on Responsibility for Illegal Enrichment at lunchtime, I want to report that we have included all the bills, that is the Rules. We include both the basic, and all the alternatives, so we don't have to be double-read, we have all the bills, and there are 12 of them, and we're actually going to be, we're going to be looking at them with the basics. Next message to me, colleagues. We now have the next issue of order of the day a very short question, but before we go to its consideration, I actually want to conduct a rating vote, because it's a clarification of the law that we've adopted, which is about simplifying the taxation of religious communities. I'm now inviting you for 30 seconds so Chi-Galasuk or the Ungurans can report it. And please vote on the rating vote. That's a very technical question. It's just a clarification of the law. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. But before I go to him, I'm going to put him on a rating vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u158	Thank you. Honorary Fellows of the National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 6, 18th, passed the Act of Ukraine amending the Law of Ukraine to maintain the registration of legal persons, natural persons of entrepreneurs and social formations (for the drafting of documents of religious organizations). But during the consideration of this bill, in the second reading of the proposal of the National MP of the South, number 3 and 13, rejected by the Committee, and number 19, considered in part, were supported by a vote in the session room. And the amendments of the Hungarian People’s Deputy 2, 5, 15, 18, taken into account by the committee, which applied to the same standards, were not put in place for confirmation. As a result of this, there was a technical and legal disagreement over the final drafting of the bill. It should also be noted that paragraph 2 of the law requires technical legal processing, because the term of validity of the law in the committee has already expired. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the committee decided to resolve differences between the individual provisions of the adopted law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u159	30 seconds, please. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u160	The committee decided to propose a clarification to the bill. In paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the Law, the second, fifth, eighth and ninth paragraphs are deleted. Paragraph 1 of paragraph 2 of the law states in the following wording: “The essence of the twelfth part of the first article 36 should be supplemented by the words “and also by religious organizations”. Paragraph 2 of the law reads as follows: "This law takes effect from the day following the day of its publication," the law was passed in the following edition. So it's the name of the law. The Supreme Council of the Law decrees: First. The following changes are made to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Entrepreneurs and Public Forms: First. Paragraph 9 of the first part of article 15 reads: "The validity of signatures in the established document of public union, religious organization or charitable organization is notable only in case."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u161	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u162	"...only if there is such a requirement in the documents of the relevant public association, religious organization or charitable organization." Two. Paragraph 12 of the first article 36 should be supplemented by the words "and also about religious organizations." This law takes effect from the day of its publication. Dear colleagues, please support. In case of non-subsistence, the committee will not be able to submit a law for signature at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u163	So, colleagues, I want to announce that we have not entered into his consideration. It's just information, it's a reconciliation of the positions of all religious communities. We're not talking. We're running a rating vote right now. I ask everyone to prepare to participate in the rating vote. So I'm conducting a rating vote on the elimination of disagreements in a test of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Entrepreneurs and Public Forms (No. 6642). It's a rating vote. Whoever supports this clarification, please vote. Please be supportive. It's a rating vote. Vote. [[13:48:23]] For a hundred and Too big a breakup, colleagues. So I'm not even going to put a clarification on the vote. We'll find time at another time to specify. And now, colleagues, I would like to inform you that at last the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by adopting the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, has the opportunity to go to the most extensive bill in the history of this convening -- the draft Ukraine's Electoral Code on Open Lists. This is a big historic moment that I welcome to the entire session hall. And I'm announcing a transition to a draft law. Code 3112-1. And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Black Alexander Mikolaiovich, to report. And, my friends, in a good way to get us through. And I'm sure we're going to adopt the Electoral Code, and it's going to be a huge contribution not only to the future of parliamentaryism, but to the development of the Ukrainian state. And I'm giving Alexander Mikolaiovich 10 minutes for the speech, and then we're going to look at the right. Please. It's been a long way, dozens of working groups that have been looking at all the revisions, and now we have the ability to work. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, attention, attention! Mr. Alexander, I'm sorry. I promised, and I'm making an announcement. No, no, you stay here, it's just a short announcement. According to the application and in accordance with the third part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Ribczynski Evgen Juriovich, from the membership of the "Will of the People" MP group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And right now, you're watching, please. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rybczyn Evgen Juriovich, into the parliamentary faction of the political party "All-Ukrainian Union of Fathers" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. And now, Mr. Alexander, we can report it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u164	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. It is heartwarming that such an entourage today sparked the beginning of the consideration of this supporting document. I honestly believe that this is going to come together and that all these days are going to be here, and it's not one day and it's not two days when we're looking at the draft electoral code for the second reading. Before I actually go directly to the project, I would like to say that the first-reading project voted a year and a half ago received more from the MPs. About 4,000 300 with some amendments, the amendment actually to all the articles of the Electoral Codex. The committee’s decision created an appropriate working group to deal with the amendments. We worked for a year. 43 meetings were held, and every amendment was made. We had a very serious discussion in the working group. At the same time, while working in the working group, we have seen that some of the issues in the Electoral Code are unfortunately not regulated by the first reading or by the amendments made to the Electoral Code. And the task force found either some gaps in this document, or saw through serious discussions how much better it is to resolve those or other points that are not regulated in the Codex today. Thus, the working group itself had 387 amendments that had not been made by the deputies. And actually, by the committee's decision, we included these amendments in the correlation table. These amendments, supported by the working group, were signed by active members of the working group – Czernenko, Sidorovich and Novak. And actually, their revisions can be counted as the amendments supported by the task force. As the committee considered the draft electoral code for second reading, there were several ways to reconsider all the amendments, but we understood that it might again be quite serious to delay the procedure for preparing the draft code on the committee. Therefore, the committee did not decide on amendments to the Electoral Code. And in the way that they were submitted by the deputies, plus by adding an amendment to the working group table, they transferred everything into the room. So the procedure for our work will be as follows. Any amendment to the Electoral Code today will be proposed for confirmation, vote. If the room supports these amendments, they will be included, if not - they will be rejected accordingly. So the process, the procedure of our work, I told you in two words. And I don't know if we're gonna start right now or after the break? Right now, yeah? Well, then we start our work. And it's actually different here. Everything? Let's not break up, we have 3 minutes left, let's start with 1 correction after a break, because now we're going to look at one correction and take a break. Come on. Maybe there's a question before what I said, by procedure. If.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u165	So, colleagues, we're in position. I want to tell you, colleagues, you remember that almost 4.5 thousand rights. You know, we're going to have a tough and complicated job ahead of us. But I want to say the right thing is that all the committee members and right-holders agreed on how to conduct the discussion. I think this discussion is going to be a big educational work at the same time. Because so many myths and lies have been imposed on this codex, so many lies. This is the most progressive election system that we can accept for Ukraine, with no closed lists, nomajority. This is the most progressive election system that foresees that people have the ability not only to choose a political party, but also to determine for themselves who from this political party should be on the lists of this party, not the leader, but the citizens of Ukraine will have that right. And we need to tell it to both journalists and citizens on all airs. And that's why I'm sure it's got to be a big education job. I want to thank the head of the Czernenko subcommittee Alexander Mikolayovich for his work. And I want to tell the right-wing authors that at 16 hours we're going to start the review of the 1-reading rights, and we're going to report the mechanism, logic and philosophy of the electoral code. I now give the floor to the announcement of messages to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. And you, Mr. Alexander Mikolaiovich, will be in the hall at 4:00. Perhaps you will arrange for each other to be in the rostrum in turn, for it will simply be very difficult. You just agree with each other, and I'll do anything to help you. Thank you. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, you know, there are statements before the Presidium of the National Deputy of Bielecki, whose card did not work, and he asks that his voice be counted "yes" during the vote in favour of the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions (No. 1098). And if we put together all the deputies whose cards didn't work when we voted on this law, I think we already have a constitutional majority for this bill. Also, the OxaniJurinec card did not work during the vote of Law 10183, which is for technical regulations. And Mrs. Romanov also informed the Bureau that her card did not work when she voted for the release of Poltorak and Klimkina (10344 and 10346). And she's asking me to count her voice in favor. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-06-m0.u167	So, dear colleagues, we had an incredibly productive morning plenary meeting today. We've made more than 10 positive decisions, a number of laws in general and, of course, the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions. We hope the President will sign it sooner. I promise to sign it more quickly and send it to the President. I think we've taken a very important step today by putting in order the daily drafts of illegal wealth laws, and we've passed security bills. It was a very active and fruitful work. And I now declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4:00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you. I'll see you later.
