ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Good morning, fellow national MPs, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies are requested to prepare registration cards. Dear colleagues, please place your cards. Dear colleagues, are you ready to register? Colleagues? Please register. [[10:04:27]] Thank you. There are 365 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups with proposals, announcements, and statements. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. As long as my colleagues are enrolled, I have a few announcements. On Tuesday, September 3, 2019, an organizational meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Ninth Council was held. The head of the Counting Commission was the national deputy of Ukraine, Ms. Aleksandar Sergiyyovich. The deputy head of the Counting Commission was elected Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Jury Alexiyovich. The Secretary of the Counting Commission has elected the National Deputy of Ukraine Ustinov Alexander Yuriyov. And the second. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been issued with forms of national MPs for the execution of parliamentary powers. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the National Deputies are obliged to use parliamentary forms only for official requests, referrals and letters signed by them on their own. I also inform you that if you address the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to the Rules, the government is not subject to registration in its secretariat of documents prepared by means of a facsimile reproduction of the signature of the person. Such documents are returned to the recipient by the Cabinet of Ministers without consideration. So I'm asking you not to use the so-called facsimile at work, but to sign the papers on your own. For my part, I am entrusting the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the task of not registering documents prepared by faxing the signature of the person. I've got everything. Thank you. The factions recorded "Serve of the People," Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich, faction of the political party "Serve of the People". I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u2	Good morning, everyone! I want to give the word to Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u3	Danilo Alexandrovich, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u4	To the rostrum?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u5	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows! Thank you for giving me your word. We have a very important day today, as it will be for the next few days when we consider those legislative initiatives that the President has defined as urgent. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what we are going to discuss with you today, in the framework of some 70 bills, not today, but today and in the coming days, in the 70 bills that the President has defined as urgent, is a system of decisions, a system of interlinked actions that in various areas of social life are aimed at getting our country out of the crisis facing the future. I ask you to be careful about these legislative initiatives and with all the responsibility, responsibility for the country, responsibility given to us by the Ukrainian people, to take and support these initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u7	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Ironborn Jaroslav Ivanovich is invited to attend. Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk, faction of the Voice Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u8	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, dear presiding officers! On Sunday morning, a beautiful sunny morning was indeed a sunny day for Ukraine — finally 24 of our wartime sailors and 11 of the Kremlin’s prisoners returned home. And I'd like to. [[Applause]] And I would like to point out that this is indeed a very good event for all of us, for all of Ukraine and, indeed, a great moral victory first for families and close relatives and for all of us. And I would like to thank from this rostrum all those who have joined in the release of our hostages -- these are the teams of the two presidents of the present and former -- that's lawyers, that's both rights-based organizations, and everyone else, they deserve our applause. Thank you. [[Applause]] And I think the discussions that have been going on lately these two days, and before that, the question of freeing the hostages should be stopped today. The question is not whether it's good or not, the life and freedom of any of our citizens is priceless, we have to put it as an axiom and stop arguing about it. There can be no questions about whether or not we should have done this – it's obvious. But many other issues remain, including the question of what is the foreign policy strategy of today’s Ukrainian leadership, the Ukrainian state. Especially when it comes to our relationship with the Russian Federation. Including, in this sense, what the process of freeing hostages looks like, in this context. We'd like to get these questions from both the President and the Foreign Ministry, foreign affairs, that carry out foreign policy. At the same time, I would like to remind all of us that under the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine forms the principles of internal and external politics. And that, including our business with you, is to shape our behavior in the international arena. That is why I would like to address today's esteemed head of the Bogdan Yaremenk Committee of Profiles with the request to convene a committee meeting as soon as possible, and then in the walls of the Supreme Council, finally to decide with our official position on the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Are we forming a delegation or not? If we are molding, are we going to a session or not? If so, what kind of mosques? We need a clear match.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u9	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u10	They are expected from us by society, and they are expected from us by our international partners. And the last. You know, the Voice faction has its own drafts, including to help us all, including the President's team, our foreign policy, including for comparing it to a state betrayal for separate negotiations. But so far, the ruling party's policy is that you only make your own laws. So we'd like to take a look at you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u12	This and other bills so that all factions in Parliament can actually fully carry out their functions and form the principles of foreign policy. The Voice faction is constructive. By faction we are ready to support all the constructive suggestions of other colleagues, including today in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u13	Svoslav Ivanovich! Regulation, Svetoslav Ivanovich. Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko, the faction of European Solidarity, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u14	Dear Ukrainians! "European solidarity" is also engrossed in the courage and integrity of the Kremlin prisoners released this Saturday. And the courage and strength of their loved ones. And, you know, now I want to remind you that Ukraine has released illegal detainees. In exchange, we've given away real diversors, killers, the human slag that Moscow recruited here to undermine peaceful life in Ukraine. And the task of Ukrainian power, diplomacy, every single one of us, every day, is to remind all of our European partners. Because some people are so excited about "Cher ami, Vladimir," they're about to hand him the Nobel Peace Prize if they keep going like that. It is worth reminding us that Putin is the one who has fought the war, not the one who brings any peace in Ukraine. And in this context, I would like to remind you, my friends, that among those released, for example, is Vladimir Baluch, who was put in prison for several years for the Ukrainian flag in Crimea. And on the same day that the patriot Baluch was released, in Stanica Lugansk, someone, whether it's the central authority or the regional authority, ordered him to drop, remove the Ukrainian flags, so that he wouldn't annoy the other side. You know, if someone in this country is annoyed by the Ukrainian flag, let them go away to Moscow. And we want to thank the patriots, the volunteers, the military who stopped this disgrace and, together with the military today, raised the Ukrainian flag near the Lugansk Stanica. In this context, we expect the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take an immediate, no later than tomorrow, decision to condemn the holding of illegal elections in Crimea by the occupying parties. We thank Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people who made the appropriate appeal to the criminals. And we thank every criminal in the occupation, the Crimean Tatars, the Ukrainians who ignored these elections and pseudo-elections. But we, as a parliament, have to evaluate it. And now for the work of Parliament. You know, the ruling majority are proud that they worked for two days as a crazy green printer. This day they're offering to work as a shameless green xerox. Because they stole a number of laws that the government had been working on for years, MPs who, as transitionals, had moved into Parliament on the ninth call but had been registered under new numbers. I ask you not to call me, to have respect for the opposition's spokesman here. Pass me the time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u15	Let me make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u16	And I want to say that it's shameless to break the Rules when there are laws that have been first read, where the amendments have been made, they're just registered under other numbers, under other numbers. And here's a whole list of these laws, my friends, to get the right authors there, there's a segregation of MPs by the right names. That is why we demand that this disgrace cease, this is a very serious violation of the Rules and allow MPs to go through the second reading today of those laws that are ready to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u18	Friends, you know, Parliament, there are very often statements from the new MPs that this Parliament has done in previous years? He fought for his independence, including. Today, with your hands, you're really simply overstepping the independence of Parliament and our functions. How else can you explain such a disgrace that you've made a decision that the whole month will not be an "hour of questions to the government"? I have a question for the majority deputies, and you also agree that you won't have the right to ask questions from the government for a month? We disagree, and we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Goose Igor Volodymyrovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u20	Igor Gus, Volin County, Future. Our MPs are 23 deputies who represent their districts in Parliament. We figured out that about 3 million people we're defending interests right here in this room, because these are the electorates of our constituencies. And as major MPs, the vast majority of us, we've been in our districts on these weekends, we've been talking to people, in different ways, we've met and so on. Undoubtedly, people were satisfied with the distinction of parliamentary integrity, no doubt everyone was happy to accept the release of our captives. But if you think there's everyone here and, in particular, the representatives of the majority, there's been a lot of questions about increasing the possibilities for the Attorney General's Office, the question of clearance of power, the question of impeachment, you're wrong. The vast majority of the questions that came from us, from the electorate to us, next, what is the new authority going to do with the tariffs? It bothers everyone. I'm a major MP, my colleagues, we can't do monocolation for the government to answer these questions. And so knowing there won't be a month of questions to the government that were supposed to be under the Rules, I'd like to ask the head of government and the majority representatives from this rostrum, where is the plan that the "minister of the people" and the government on the issue of tariffs? And I really wanted this to not happen when the heating season started. Unfortunately, whether someone wants it or not, the vast majority of our voters with you are the main issue that concerns them. The other one. Subsidies. People hear there's going to be a subsidy scam, there's going to be a decrease in the number of recipients, an increase in what procedure? Nobody knows anything. On behalf of our MP group, I would also like to address the government and give an urgent explanation, a vision, on the subject of subsidies. Third. The local authorities, the united communities, the cities, the leaders of these local self - government authorities, they turn to us, certain taxes will continue to go into the local budget, will they not? What effort will the authorities of the local self-government receive in the future to adjust preparations for local budgets for the 20th year? On these questions we have no answers, time goes on, there's nothing to talk about forerunners anymore, all the authorities in the country belong to the People's Servants, and we are asked questions as majors, and I, in particular, ask you this question on behalf of colleagues. So please provide the following answers: tariffs, subsidies, and local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u21	Thank you. Rabbi Vadim Zinovovich, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u22	Honorable Presidium, colleagues, distinguished voters! Probably the only thing that survived and survived in Ukraine for 28 years is what? Freedom of speech. In one way or another, she was sought after by all the rulers of our nation, but she survived. Freedom of speech is enshrined in article 34 of the Constitution, and it states: "Everyone is guaranteed the right to freedom of thought and of speech, to express his views and beliefs freely. Everyone has the right to freely store, collect, use and disseminate information orally, in writing or otherwise." Without freedom of speech there is no democracy and we will not have it. I would also like to remind you that the victory of the People's Servant Party has become possible thanks to the media and television that broadcast different thoughts. But what we're seeing now is how the N.A.T.T.T.T.A. is deciding to take out the NewsOne license and appeal to the court to give that decision power. This is the same Nakrad, in which three by law no longer have authority, and one is legally appointed. This is the same Nacrad that the State Bureau of Investigation is doing on the subject of 100 million looting, this is the same Nacrad, most of which has been appointed by the previous authorities of treasury thieves who want to keep their seats under today's authority. An illegal display court was set up over the channel by direct broadcasts from the guests. I'll give you an example of my words, for which, including from now on, they're disbarred. I quote, "We are united for peace, we will stop the tariff genocide, we will establish peace on Donbassa." In these words, the flames of national hostility were seen. Think about it, there were a lot of people in the Nakradium during the meeting who couldn't get there without an early pass. Strangely enough, who was in charge of all of this? Sternenko, who's going through a group of crimes right now, the last of them is the murder of a man. You don't mind? Aren't you surprised? And you're surprised when they shoot the 112 out of a grenade. Aren't you surprised that many journalists are being chased down the streets, killed? And nobody cares that on NewsOne we've seen all the thoughts, and on other channels, neither I nor my co-conspirators ever do. I don't care either, it's me. I am very grateful to those "ministers of the people" who have already expressed their concern about what court was going on in this room. Thank you to these people. Your Honor, you can stay away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u24	No, they're coming for you! Or they'll come! Because dictatorship begins with the first step. So I propose, first of all, to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on the activities of the Nacradia. Second, in this room, posters were often posted to support ideas or thoughts. Let me finish my speech by doing the same. I'm against censorship! Stop censoring in our country!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u25	Thank you, Vadim Zinovich. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the "Fatherland" faction, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u26	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I'd like to welcome everyone, the whole of Ukraine, the families with the release of our captives, our soldiers and our heroes. I want to thank all those involved in this great cause, and I am really proud that Ukraine is not abandoning its own. The war of this century is no longer a territory; it is a people’s soul. Thus, the way people are treated is so important. The exchange process needs to be completed, we need to continue, and all of our Ukrainian heroes must return to their families, to their children, to their mothers. From this Supreme Council, the Ukrainian people look forward to much, the threshold of expectation is extremely high: 80 percent of Ukrainians count on improving their lives, and we have no right to betray their expectations. When you read on the Internet that the Supreme Council has included such a "tobretroika" – most of the bills are registered, most of them are planned to be considered, that's good! That's good, but these are records, they're just statistics. The record will be when there is a concrete result of the work that people will see and experience. I looked at today’s agenda, which is proposed in this room. There are a lot of bills, they apply mostly to officials, the authorities, but in these bills, somewhere a person -- a person who must first be in the object of Parliament, a people who have chosen this Parliament and formed it. And that's why I have a constructive proposal for magnitude, so let's make the order of the day as follows. Although through one, one law applies to officials and one law applies to people. And as Fatherland, we've registered these bills and we're proposing them to Parliament: 1177, all promised in elections, this is a bill that's registered and applies to lower gas tariffs for people. This is a law that foresees the entire gas of Ukrainian mining -- the Ukrainian population and the decline in the income of gas companies. Law 1172, which is registered in Parliament and is to be included as an urgent one in the agenda, is a bill that provides for the pension to be raised to a minimum of 3 000, 94 bracelets, 71 percent of pensioners receive a lower pension than is a minimum of living. The 1173 bill, which envisions increasing support for the birth of a child, will improve the demographic situation in the country, helping young families, young mothers, and parents. Let's at least start with this -- one bill we're voting on, one that's already been defined as urgent and refers to power, parliament, courts and one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u28	And one bill that applies specifically to every person. And then people will really say that this Parliament is national, and then people will say that they didn't miss their choice. I propose to the President of Ukraine the bills that Fatherland has passed to be declared urgent and to vote first in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. On Monday, September 9, the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups discussed and approved the draft agenda for the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. In accordance with part one of article 21 and part one of article 22 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, I present a draft agenda for the day - to - day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to point out that further questions may be included in our approved agenda for the day session, as decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft agenda has been given to all of you, and we have previously agreed with the factions and groups that next week we will work out the agenda of the day session and bring up some questions for consideration at the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. I'm betting on voting for the whole draft Decree (Registration No. 2101) on the order of the day of the second session. No discussion. John Ivanovich, we spoke on the Conciliation Council. All factions and groups had the opportunity to express their position. So I bet I'm putting a draft Order (Registration No. 2101) on the agenda for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call. Please support and vote. [[10:29:48]] For 312 Thank you, the decision is made. For 312, versus 0, holding 62. Please show by factions: "Serving the People" – 245, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 31, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 0, "non-factional" – 21. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The Supreme Council has come up with a draft decree to suspend the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Kovalenko Anna, faction of the political party "The Servant of the People". There is a proposal to consider this motion for a summary ruling. Please support and vote. [[10:30:49.]] For 354 Thank you. Decision taken. 354-yes. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kalchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u30	The Honourable Presidium, the distinguished National Deputies, the Committee at its meeting on September 5th, reviewed the application of the Ukrainian People's Deputies' Dept. of the People's Party, Anna Mikolayovna Kovalenko, for her to be appointed as Deputy Director of the Office of the President of Ukraine pursuant to article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and article 4 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit to Parliament a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalenko (registration number 2091). The draft decree and all documents are distributed to the deputies. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u31	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a desire to speak: two in favour, two in opposition, or are we going straight to the vote? Voting. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put the vote to the vote and ask for the full support of the draft Order 2091 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kovalenko Anna Mikolayovna. Please support and vote. [[10:32:42]] For 369 Thank you. Decision taken. 369, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, 0, in, in, in, in, in, in, Dear colleagues, we have come up with a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ninth vocation. The draft decision is given to all of you. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[10:33:27]] For 334 Thank you. For -334. The decision will be considered. The draft decision will be considered in the summary procedure. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and organizational work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u32	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The regular committee at its September 5th meeting reviewed the statements made by non-fractional national MPs: Grib – the election of her member of the Committee on Energy and Housing and Utilities; Sphenova is about his election as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy; Novinski is elected as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Interimly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations; This is about his election as a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Similarly, statements by national MPs, members of the MP faction of the People's Servant Party, have been considered: It's about the election of a member of the Committee on Freedom of Speech; Money is about electing a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation; The arrest is about his election as a member of the Committee on Social Policy and the Protection of the Rights of Veterans; Calaures is a member of the Committee on Human Rights, Depopulation and Reintegration of Temporaryly Occupied Territories in Donetsk, Lugansk and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Sevastopol, National Minorities and International Relations; Rudenko is about to be elected member of the Foreign Policy Committee. As well as a statement by the People's Deputy of the Steppe on the transition to the Digital Transformation Committee from the Freedom of Word Committee. Similarly, the submission of the parliamentary faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" on the election of the national MP, Larina, as Secretary of the Digital Transformation Committee. The committee noted that the preparatory group set a quota for the election of the Secretary of the Committee-designated for the political party's parliamentary faction "The Opposition Platform for Life". The committee decided to support the statements made by non-fractional people's deputies, members of the People's Party faction and the submission of the political party's parliamentary faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" and submitted a draft to Parliament by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Regulatory Committee, corresponding to Decree 2092. And we recommend that Parliament accept it for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u34	the Parliament to adopt it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u35	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please tell your colleagues, is there a need to discuss the matter? I'd like to support you. Vote. I am voting on the basis and the entire draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 2092). Please support and vote. [[10:36:51]] For 353 Thank you. For 353. Decision taken. Against 0. Hold on to 20. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been handed out a draft law on a special procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office and a so-called impeachment (registration number 1012). I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[10:37:34]] For 270. Thank you. 270-yes. Against it is 24. Abstaining - 62. Decision taken. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u36	Good day, fellow believers, distinguished audiences, President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, one of his first obligations, which he spoke of, is to create equal rights for all. And we see with what loyalty this room has voted for the removal of parliamentary immunity. And we know how much support this decision has received in society. The next step that we're going to talk about today is also one of President Vladimir Zelensky's promises -- the adoption of the impeachment law. We know that this draft legislation, the legislative act, was introduced to the Supreme Council of the previous convening. And unfortunately, it wasn't even included in the agenda. And the position of President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine, which will be the first legislative act to go through the process of voting for laws, will be a project on impeachment. In this way, the President is primarily committed to his words and that he is willing to have the same level of conditions as to attracting the President as an institution to responsibility in the order defined by law. You know, we've had a lot of discussions on this subject, and in particular, the discussions have been about whether these rules are somewhere in the Rules or in a law adopted by the previous Supreme Council on the interim commission of inquiry. But once again, I want to point out that this is a separate constitutional procedure that is demonstrated and set out in this legislative act. I therefore ask you, on behalf of the President of Ukraine, to support this bill, which sets out the full procedure for the impeachment of the President of Ukraine, and to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u37	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Public Authority, Local Self - Government, Regional Development, and Construction of Kloczko Andriyovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u38	Good afternoon, Reverend Head, distinguished colleagues. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Dmitry Razumkova, Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urban Development at its meeting on 6 September 2019, reviewed the draft Law on the Special Procedure for the Removal of the President of Ukraine from the Position (Impeachment) (Registration No.1012), introduced by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, and defined him as an urgent matter for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of this project is to create legal rules to guarantee the implementation by the Ukrainian people as representatives of the Ukrainian people of parliamentary control over compliance with the Head of State of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Restoration of the restraint system and the opposites by ensuring that the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine can be implemented. The project enshrines democratic principles for the implementation of impeachment, the prescribed order for its initiation, the order for the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry, the issue of its status and activities, the status of a special prosecutor, special investigators, the protector of the rights of the President of Ukraine. All necessary procedures are foreseen for an open, comprehensive and comprehensive consideration of issues related to the impeachment of Parliamentary meetings, including the final decision on impeachment, and so forth. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of observations, both in terms of individual project rules and in general terms, and believes that this document needs to be finalized. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, in its conclusion on the compatibility of the draft legal act with anti-corruption legislation, points out that the draft act does not reveal corruption-related factors, the draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Budget Committee notes that the implementation of the bill with registration number 1012 does not affect the income or expenditure of budgets. A similar point is the expert opinion of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. During.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u40	During the discussion of the project, the committee noted that its adoption would allow for the regulation of an important mechanism of the system of restraint and opposition to state authority, the equality of all subjects before the law, which had been exclusively eloquent for a long period of time, since until then it had not found the necessary extension beyond the rules of the Ukrainian Constitution. In doing so, I stress that the logic of the normalization of the impeachment procedure, in which not only the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its organs, but also the representatives of the judiciary and the law enforcement system, allows for the claim that the relevant legal regulation goes beyond the purely parliamentary procedure and requires the adoption of a special law, as was done by President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, through the implementation of the law of the legislative initiative. The Committee on the Organization of State Authority, Local Self-Government, Regional Development and Urbanization approved the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, part one and part two, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, that the draft Ukrainian Law on the Special Procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impicment) (registration number 1012) be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a result of the first reading review. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u41	Thank you, Andry Andryovich. Please register by faction: two-for-two-again. Parobi Andry Volodymyrovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity". "For." "For," Andry Volodymyrovich, "for." Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I am, indeed, like everyone here, for the Law on impeachment. And I have some good news for you. Good news and unexpected news for both the presidency and the MPs. The law on impeachment has already been passed. I welcome the whole hall. You may not have been informed or have read enough news. So I'd like to officially inform you that on June 6, this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Act 1098, which fully, in detail, provides for an impeachment procedure. And this law has been in preparation for years. The singers were representatives of all factions and factions of the majority and factions of the opposition. Together, in the Dialogues of Monet, together with the Europeans, we prepared this law. And he was accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and this can be confirmed by all the deputies who witnessed this action. And he was handed over to the President of Ukraine. And I'll read you the Constitution of Ukraine, it's also an important document, we have to stick to it. That the law is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and immediately directs it to the President of Ukraine. The president of Ukraine signs it within 15 days of the law being passed, taking it into effect, and formally publishes it or returns it. If the President of Ukraine has not returned the law during this term, the law is considered approved by the President of Ukraine and has to be signed and officially published, and there is no other action. So we don't need legislative spam, we don't need to see big work, it takes two minutes for the President to sign Law 1098, and in two minutes, the country will have the Law on impeachment. And what's happening in the hall is called the legislative spam and the visibility of violent work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u43	Let me finish. Thank you. Lashenko Anastasia Alexiyevna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Alexander Korneyenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u45	Alexander Sergiyovich Kornienko, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u46	The honourable Presidium, honourable colleagues, the purpose and purpose of this bill is to create legal rules to guarantee the implementation by the Ukrainian people's deputies, as representatives of the Ukrainian people, of such a mechanism of parliamentary control over compliance with the head of State of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the restoration of the restraint system and the opposition by ensuring the practical implementation of the impeachment procedure of the President of Ukraine. At the same time, it is emphasized that legislation in force, we can emphasize that in the relevant sphere, there are a number of uncertainties and fundamental shortcomings, without which, as provided for in current legislation, the position on the order of the impeachment of the President of Ukraine is essentially decriminal and cannot be implemented in practice. The political position of the Party and the "Serial of the People" faction is that we need to move gradually or sharply away from the declarativeity of legislation and its implementation into practice. So it's this bill that's designed to get closer to the practical implementation of the impeachment. We do not say that God will not allow this to happen anytime soon, but at some point it will have to be settled. It should also be noted that the logic of standardizing the procedure of impeachment, in which not only the national deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its organs are involved, but also the representatives of the judiciary and the law enforcement system, allows for the assertion that the relevant legal regulation goes beyond the purely parliamentary procedure and requires the adoption of a special law, which was made by the President when he prepared it and corrected it. Our committee supported this bill and the committee supported it, which I lead, so we ask the deputies to support it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u47	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Nestor Ivanovich Schufric, faction "The Opposition Platform for Life".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! I have to get you back a little bit. In 96, on a famous constitutional night, this adoption of 111 articles of the Constitution -- it was a compromise. What's the point? To adopt such a rule on the impeachment procedure, to make it impossible for Parliament never to be able to resign and move from office as President of Ukraine. What is today’s law? It's actually quoting 111 articles of the Constitution, which so clearly defined the impeachment procedure, today's law is based on the principle of "mushroom butter." Perhaps it would be fair for the people of Ukraine to talk about removing the immunity from the President of Ukraine, and then the impeachment procedure would not be necessary. In principle, it would not be necessary, then every lawman and judge, when they saw the crime or suspicion of a crime on the part of the President, could act as they would with you after January 1st. I rarely agree with the representatives of Peter Prashenko's Block, but today I have to agree that the law that was passed on to the inquiry committees is absolutely perfect and sufficient. But it's not signed and it's, by the way, a formal violation of the law. We are certainly going to meet the President of Ukraine today. But we believe that it will be an honest step before the people of Ukraine to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution on the removal of the President's inviolability. It happened that before this President all corruption began with the presidents of Ukraine, not in this room, it was already.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u49	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u50	Considering that we have chosen "ministers of the people," I believe that this shameful practice of leading corruption will never happen again. And to be absolutely convinced of this, let's help the President of Ukraine together, ask him to make changes to the Constitution about his own integrity, well, if he's too busy, we'll collect 150 signatures here and help the President, and we'll be honest.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u51	Thank you. Vakarcuk Svetoslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "The Voice". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Roman Lozinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u53	Roman Lozinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u54	Dear Ukrainians! The issue of impeachment in Ukraine is discussed no less than the question of removing parliamentary immunity. Kravčuk, Kuchma, Yushchenko, Yanukovic and Prashenko are the names of those presidents in which this procedure has not been clarified and the changes to the Constitution have not been made. President Zelenski is the President in which this procedure is first discussed and, even more so, put forward for the first sessions of our Supreme Council as an urgent matter. But this bold step really doesn't matter right now. Maybe the President was deceived because this bill on impeachment actually doesn't change anything at all. It's not a bill, it's a collection. This is a collection of articles of the Constitution, a collection that includes individual provisions of the Rules. But it's really just a facade reform that doesn't change anything. So that we can actually make the impeachment procedure possible, necessary changes to article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Only then will the impeachment actually be possible. Perhaps nonsense, agree that the changes to the Basic Law of Ukraine – the Constitution – require 300 votes. Today, changes under the proposed bill require 337 votes of parliamentarians, i.e. the President will be protected completely more than the main law of Ukraine. We demand and propose to President Greensky to propose and amend article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and this is the only way that this impeachment procedure will be possible. The Voice faction is abstaining from this vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u55	Thank you. It's a motivator's thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, for 28 years, we have been promised equal opportunities by society, but each time we are divided by different signs. I'm going to start with equality and justice. My bill in this direction is to remove the inviolability of the President of Ukraine, the national MPs and the judges, the recall of the national MP. This is a pre-election program for President Vladimir Zelensky. I mean, it wasn't about. This law that we are considering is not an equality law, because the President remains untouchable, article 105 of the Constitution, we are now just considering how to take this integrity off the President. The castes of the untouchable remain in Ukraine, the judges, the inviolability of which is removed by the Supreme Council of Justice, and the President of Ukraine. So unlike the Voice faction, we're proposing not to change at 111. 111 should be ruled out, 105 should be changed, and the President should be touched, and the Constitution should be amended, and the judges should be touched, and the judges should be executed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u57	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u58	And to carry out the full electoral program of President Vladimir Zelensky's presidential candidate, removing the intactness of all castes in Ukraine and ensuring the equality of all, including the President, and the judges before the law and the Constitution of Ukraine. And a brief lineup, speaking, the President's representative said that the impeachment procedure was regulated in some of the regulations. It is fully regulated by article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine and, in principle, in addition to point changes on temporary special investigation committees and the appointment of special prosecutors and special prosecutors. [[Unheard]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is over. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law (registration number 1012) on a special procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impitchment). Please support and vote. [[10:56:49]] For 337 Thank you. 337 versus zero, holding 46. Decision taken. Not all of it. If there's no objection, I'm voting on the bill. [[Noise Nodes]] There's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u60	If there is a objection, I would like, since there are objections and objections to national MPs, please ask the representative of the profiling committee to comment on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u61	Yes. Good afternoon, again, Head! Dear colleagues, all the comments were considered on the committee and those of them that were worth the attention, including what I propose to admit to the project in such a way that it does not require further work, support, and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, if, if you have heard the position of the committee. Wait. Ivan Ivanovich, procedure. One minute, Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u63	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I would like to remind everyone of the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If at least one national MP in the session room requires consideration of a bill for two readings, such a bill cannot be voted on as a whole. We voted first reading. What we can do now is I can tell you that we can apply the ad hoc procedure and shorten the deadline for amending the bill twice and no more. Let us act on the Rules, vote on the first reading. Allow this bill to be amended by the people's deputies, and in particular I have amendments to this bill, which I would like to submit in writing to the committee. And I would also like to draw the attention of the committee head, who said that the corrections that are correct -- those that are not right -- are unaccounted for. An interesting position may be new to our approach to parliamentaryism. Let us, after all, preserve parliamentaryism in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u64	Ivan Ivanovich, as far as I know, the committees have been working on these issues, and the amendments that have been made have been made to the committees and have been considered. The Supreme Council of Ukraine may decide whether there is a need for further work. That's why I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to recognise the Law (registration number 1012) on a special procedure for removing the President of Ukraine from office (impitchment) in such a way that it doesn't require further work. This goes into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please support and vote. Please be supportive. [[11:00:24]] For 245 Thank you. Decision taken. 245. Honorable National MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Show the factions, please. 243 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – For Life – 0, European Solidarity – 0, Fatherland – 0, For the Future – 0, Voice – 0, non-fractional – 2. Decision taken. Wait a minute. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, in faction, the party may have a green color for them, you know, party, but there can't be a green view of Parliament. You have now violated the Rules very harshly, because, first of all, the committee head has no amendments to the first reading. The first reading discusses the body of the bill, the basis, and the second reading each national MP has the right to amend. Just now, by your voluntary decision, the Head of the Supreme Council and 254 national deputies simply crossed out the right of another part of the room representing millions of Ukrainians to submit amendments to this bill. This is article 102 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. You're just demeaning Parliament's role right now, you're violating every MP's right to amend. If you're going to accept all the other amendments today, we're going to address the Ukrainians -- you know, there's no Parliament. It's not just a green printer and a green xerox, it's just an adjective to a green microphone button. That's what they've turned into.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u66	The Gethmans are out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u67	Thank you. Thank you for your statement and thank you to the opposition that they have finally begun to read the Rules and. [[Applause]] Some of the violations that have been committed throughout the previous Supreme Council office have been systematically forgotten, and no one has taken into account any rules of the Rules. If we have a quality bill that has been drafted on the committee, the committee has worked out and taken into account all the comments that have been made, I think there is a reason for adopting it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u68	Thank you. Nestor Ivanovich's last minute out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u69	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, dear and honorable "ministers of the people"! This is a question that you're now sifting, really, it's not worth it. I'm telling you honestly, you know my attitude and the attitude of our faction toward you. We supported the vote in the first reading. We're probably the only ones who don't join the coalition. But now what you're doing is really too much. A week later, we will vote in general, literally in a week, on Tuesday. Change the deadline for amendments, reduce it by one week, and vote it calmly, and it will be back to about 300 votes. Dmitri Alexanderovich, please don't break Parliament through your knees, stand by the rules of the Rules. Your will, you can change the Law on Rules as a whole, you can accept new ways to work, you have such powers. But first change the Law on the Rules and then follow the new rules. Today, the Rules guarantee the people’s deputies of Ukraine to make their amendments. Please respect that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u70	Nestor Ivanovich, we do not violate the Rules, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. And the decision was made that the law was recognized as not needing further work. Repeatedly, such decisions were made in this room. But unlike what you see in the hall today, it was never supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Hall. Now there were over 226 votes of Ukrainian national deputies. That's why I'm here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Bondar Victor from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u71	Victor Bondar, MP for the Future. We have also voted in favour of this bill and we support that it should be considered. But at the same time, it wasn't in vain that colleagues said that at the same time, we had to remove the integrity of both the President and the judges, and that would be, in fact, equalizing all rights. But there are also procedural questions. See how decisions are made today. Yes, we voted, but essentially to the MPs, the factions were prevented from speaking, and there was no record of the performance. There is now a break in the procedure that allows MPs at least five days to get to know the text of the document, amend it and vote peacefully on the Rules in a week's time. There's a breach of procedure. Then we can get a lawsuit before the Constitutional Court. And the bill that is being voted down today will be repealed. And we'll start the procedure again first. Let's not create an artificial barrier and artificially do not do a procedure that will lead to everything voted today being simply overturned by a decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u72	Thank you. I'm sure that the decisions that are being taken today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are, in fact, aimed at the changes and expectations that are in the state. So let the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide as the law requires. That is why, if there is no objection, I am voting on the whole bill (registration number 1012) on the special procedure for the removal of the President of Ukraine from office (impicment). Please support and vote. [[11:06:38]] For 245 Thank you. 245, decision taken. It's 73, it's 55. Show by factions. I recall that the decision was taken in general with the necessary technical and legal rights. "People's Servant" – 244, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 0, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 1. The law is passed. A statement from two factions. What two factions? [[B in m in s a l in]] Break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Or we could invite the head of the Voice and Fatherland faction. And a group for the future. "The Opposition Platform for Life" too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's get to work. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work. We're taking quite a break, so we're starting our work. It's Heratchenko. Yeah? Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u75	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of the outcome of the meeting that took place in the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the participation of representatives of all factions. I'll remind you that the initiator of this meeting was "European Solidarity." And this was the hour that we may have lost for the speed of making decisions, but we have definitely won for Parliamentaryism in Ukraine, because it is really important that all factions, all the national MPs represented here, together we defend the independence of Parliament, respect the rules of the Rules and reinforce procedures. And actually, as a result of these agreements, I want to say that they came out that, first of all, all the deputies here are equal, everyone has the right to submit their amendments to the bills, of course, if the governor wants to work at a fast pace, we just support it, and you can put to the vote the question of an accelerated procedure for preparing for a second reading of a particular bill, but there can be no violation of the Rules. This book should be a guide for us, actually, that's what we agreed on. And we welcome in any case any construct that brings together the positions of all political forces, because it's really a disgrace when "0.0.0.0" is on the board against all other political forces that are not protesting against the essence of the law, namely against the procedure of violating the Rules. On the other hand, colleagues, I want to say that our work today is certainly being followed by the world, by the European Union, and it is very important that we demonstrate European principles here. And I want to welcome "European Solidarity", a party that today received an extremely powerful and positive signal with Brussels, "European Solidarity" became a member of a large family of the European People's Party. With what we greet all our Partymen very much. Friends, and we're actually working on it, we're working on the Rules. We thank all our colleagues for their constructive work, and we expect the President of the Green Honorary to sign the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u76	Alexander Kornienko with a motive. For reasons, Alexander Kornienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! We have a brief statement from the factions on the basis of the previous vote. A week ago, it seems exactly a week ago, we passed the Law on the Cancellation of Deputy Inviolability to All Halls. And it really was the unity of most political forces, and that's what the country expected. But the next step, what we promised people, was the adoption of the Law on impeachment. Because President Vladimir Zelensky advocates that there should be no people untouchable and that there should be equal opportunities to bring responsibility and MPs, and the President as well. Therefore, we believe that the adoption of the Law on Impeachment as a whole is the right step for the Supreme Council, and we believe that this was within the framework of the Supreme Council's decision. And so we want to urge every effort to support this position, that the Law on impeachment is adopted in general and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u79	He'll sign to the President and we'll wait for the President's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to add that we have really taken this decision from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am sure that this is one of the key issues that has to be addressed in terms of the promises that have been made by many of the political forces represented in Parliament today. First of all, I understand that this was both the position of President Zelensky and the political party "The Servant of the People," so this question could not be prolonged. That is why we have accepted it within the limits of the Rules and within the limits of the powers delegated to us by the people of Ukraine. And then let's work, we have a lot of questions, and I'm sure we should get through them pretty quickly. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of certain provisions of criminal procedural law (registration number 1009). The spokesman for the President at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues! I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. Stop voting. One more time, please. Feder Volodymyrovich, you, too, come back, please. Once again, please support and vote. [[12:36:08]] For 269 Thank you. Decision taken. 260-yes. Against the 9th. We're holding on to 59. Feder Volodymyrovich Venislavski is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u81	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! President Volodymyr Zelenski of Ukraine, in accordance with article 93 of the Ukrainian Constitution, has been brought before Parliament and has been designated as an immediate bill under registration number 1009 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of certain provisions of criminal procedural legislation. What are we talking about? This is about the adoption in 2012 of a new Criminal Procedure Code, which unfortunately has some shortcomings. During that time, changes were made. However, the changes that were meant to address the systemic flaws in this Code of Criminal Procedure have never been made. In addition, in 2017, as you remember, changes were made to this code, so-called changes, "Losov's actions", which not only made it easier, but made the procedure of pretrial investigation more difficult. For the purpose of removing, first of all, these Lozov rights and achieving a series of other goals, this bill has been tabled for Parliament's consideration. What else is there in this bill? It also means that the bill proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. And also before the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. In particular, to article 27, which guarantees excessively broad guarantees of parliamentary integrity. You and I voted in favour of removing the MP's immunity. The Law will enter into force on January 1, 2020, but the valid Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine, contrary to the requirements of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, contains excessive guarantees for the activities of the National MP. The point is that not only do arrests, arrests, and invocations of the responsibility of the national deputy require the approval of the Supreme Council, as well as examinations, searches, personal examinations, examinations of things, service offices, personal items. So today this law does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, so these provisions are proposed in the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, to be removed. In addition, it is proposed that the Law on the Law be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u82	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u83	It is proposed to amend the Law on Judicial Expertise, which is aimed at removing Lozov's rights, and the bill proposes to amend the Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine in order to give the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the State Bureau of Investigation the right to withdraw information from transport telecommunications networks. It is also proposed that amendments be made to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, which will extend some of the Director’s authority to approve the cost of the asset, determine the schedule, position on the structural units, and so on. It is also proposed that some legislation be amended to simplify the pretrial investigation of certain categories of cases. In general, these changes are aimed at improving the activities of the pretrial investigation bodies, in particular so that, at the conclusion of the pretrial investigation, the prosecutor, at the time of the trial, does not read out fully the indictment, which may take months and report separate positions, and in writing everyone interested in the trial has the opportunity to get to know. Therefore, we ask this bill to support the initiative of the President of Ukraine, this bill being considered as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u84	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. But, please, stick to the rules. Thank you. A coreporter, head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u85	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the Committee on the Protection of Law, at its meeting, considered a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Improvement of Certain Provisions of Criminal Procedural Law (Registration No. 1009). Submitted by the President of Ukraine and recognized as urgent for further consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will not repeat the basic positions of the previous rapporteur only that the committee supports the bill and recommends to the Supreme Council that the bill (registration number 1009) be adopted on the basis and generally as a law, taking into account the proposals made and supported by the committee. Please support the appropriate vote with further technical legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u86	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. I'd like you to sign up for the factions: two in, two in, two in. Lucenko Irina Stepanovna, "European Solidarity" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u87	Please pass the word to the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u88	Princely faction of "European Solidarity" in support of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! It is proposed to make a pro-Russian, essentially Stalinic law. Under such a law in Russia, a man on the Internet was convicted for a year who wrote, "Kill a slave," for calling for violence against himself. Because this was not done by certified experts, what the law is proposing. The law forbids a person to know his judgment and what he is accused of. Obviously, such changes conflict with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, fundamental freedoms. The law was confirmed by the United Nations Human Rights Committee, the UN General Assembly, by decisions of the European Court of Justice. The law allows confiscation in third parties, if the person could have known whether he could not have known that the property had been acquired legally or not in a legal way, cost more or less. It's an open road to raiding and stripping ordinary citizens of property. This law allows for an arrest without the right to be arrested, i.e. we provide for the right to bet on terrorists, murderers, rapists, and for people persecuted for political purposes, we take the right to bet. Obviously, when it comes to parliamentary immunity, our faction believes that instead of excluding the relevant provisions of the CPC and the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies, it is necessary to foresee that the MP cannot be criminalized for political position, for any statement on internal and external politics, for criticism of power, for actions aimed at protecting the interests of the electorate. Including during appropriate mass action, because this law allows politicians to listen right now, to listen to the national MPs, the effect will actually be another "outergate" that will push the country into a state that is not driven by democracy. In this vote, remember what country we want to build: the European rule of law or the hands of young people who simply obediently push the button, the pro-Russian dictatorship, and give us back to the aggressor. Thank you. Our faction will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, I have one request, if we're signing up to support the bill, so let's make it in support, not the other way around, because it's kind of weird-looking. Oddczuk Andri Petrovich, faction of the Voice Political Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u91	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u92	To support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u93	I want to tell Sasha Ustinovy, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u94	I'm sorry, one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u95	Please pass it on to Ustiny Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u96	Ustinova Alexandra, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues! You know, after listening to the previous speaker, I'm surprised to hear it's some kind of usurper bill. Unfortunately, it's a bill that regulates and defines what's happened before the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, the Supreme Council of the past voted such a problem for all law enforcement officers, "like the Law Amendment." Unfortunately, the Supreme Council for two years couldn't give us permission to listen to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the D.B.I., and I'm now standing on the street with an activist in front of the Supreme Council, and we've been doing dozens of shares, demanding that this be approved. Unfortunately, I wanted to save the monopoly on the wire only to the Ukrainian Security Service, which was controlled by the President. So now that bill that we're asked to vote on is going to be supported by the Voice faction in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u98	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, faction. A member of Parliament for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u99	Thank you, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, I am addressing you because this bill is extremely important. Yes, there's a lot of positive, we're ready to support and vote all the positive things that the acting President, the acting authorities, your coalition brings to the Hall today. And what's really relevant is the support of people and the economy and their wealth. But here they come back, by this bill, today many of the Soviet norms that existed in the Soviet Attorney General's Office and the Attorney General's Office as a whole. Thus it will not be possible to appeal against illegal acts and unfounded orders by investigators, from the time of the discovery of criminal conduct to the time when the suspect is presented. These criminal cases are open for 5-10-15 years until they're dealt with. We can all be in these criminal cases, and the prosecutors themselves will extend the terms. The investigators themselves have the right to determine for themselves, to involve experts in every criminal matter. Do you know what this is going to be? This will be what the investigators will appoint, which expert will suit him, which one will not. It removes the norm that gives the right to charge any person's suspicions. I mean, if you've been given a suspicion, you won't be able to sue her in court and wait for a criminal case to end, and you're not going to get court-martialed -- justifiable or negative. The trial will continue with the prosecutors, the Attorney General. We have this practice, we remember this practice when years passed by, and for years criminal cases have been dealt with, because no one has had the deadlines when he has to complete the investigation and present a person with either suspicion or leave the process. And these are the norms that unfortunately destroy the very essence of the bill and destroy what has been done positively over the past 5-10 years in terms of protecting people, in terms of the work of lawyers, from the point of view that investigators, prosecutors and other law enforcement agencies have been limited in their actions, and that they have at least some safeguards, even though they have to walk on every issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u100	The Fatherland faction. Labunsky Angela, Fatherland faction, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u101	Good afternoon, colleagues! The "Fatherland" faction also made a decision to support this law in the first reading. But I want to support my colleagues that we are once again back in the disgraceful practice that today the judicial system is completely removed from law enforcement control. Again today, we want to clear up the terms that people have demanded when for years, decades, people have been unable not to complain at all, to do nothing about criminal matters – that is not the case. Because this law narrows down the constitutional rights of citizens as provided for by the Constitution, this is about the arrest of third parties and many shortcomings. On the first reading, we will definitely uphold this law, but we need to work with it. Indeed, Lozov’s repairs have collapsed in the law - enforcement system. But so that we don't get what we do when we cancel Lozov's revisions, we go back to a worse option. I think it's important to go through a shorter procedure, it's an important law, shorten the term, vote on the first reading, week on the amendments, and bring it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u102	Let me finish. All of it. Thank you. Yacik Julia Grigorovna, faction of the political party "Slut of the People" with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Your Honor, the Presidium! In general, by supporting this bill, I would like to point out that this bill deals with complex issues that concern not only professional lawyers, not only lawyers, judges, prosecutors and lawyers, but also every citizen who faces the question of the burial of close relatives. They are forced to wait a few days, a few days, or a week, for the approval of the investigating judge of the appointment of an expert or a solution to the matter. It should be noted that the bill also addresses the issue of the non-refoulement of temporary disposal property, with which both investigators and lawyers often meet, as investigators abuse their right to non-refoulement of temporary disposal of property in defined terms. In addition, the bill provides protection for the defendant and for his own initiative to collect evidence and conduct proceedings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u104	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u105	On your own initiative. In addition, an important norm that allows the NAB and DBR to conduct inconclusive search operations, rather than relying on these investigative actions by the Ukrainian Security Service. And a lot of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, let's stick to the rules. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u107	Just a second. Many of these innovations, which make it easier for people to access justice, to criminal justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1009) amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to improve certain provisions of criminal procedural legislation. Please support and vote. [[12:51:14]] For 297 Thank you, the decision is made. For 297, against 3, hold 40. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 239, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 19, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 18. Thank you. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, honourable national MPs have put to the vote the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1009) to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve certain provisions of criminal procedural law. Please support and vote. [[12:52:09]] For 278 278 – in favour – 28, held – 32. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court (registration number 1025) has been introduced for your consideration. I'd like to take this matter up by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[12:52:53]] For 280 Thank you. Decision taken. For 280, against 6, hold 61. The review of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court will take place under a reduced procedure. The representative of the President of Ukraine at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Fedir Volodymyrovich Venislavski, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u109	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies, President of Ukraine in the Order of the Legislative Initiative, introduced a bill to Parliament to amend the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court, which received registration number 1025. Today, according to sociological research, confidence in the judiciary is at a very critical low level, with about 1 percent of Ukrainian citizens trusting the courts. It was with the aim of increasing citizens' confidence in the judicial system that the Anti-Corruption Court Act was passed, "The Higher Anti-Corruption Court," I apologize. In accordance with this law, the Supreme Anticorruption Court was formed, and it began its activities for days. From the very beginning, however, we have faced very serious problems. In line with the legislative regulation that takes place today, cases that will be brought before the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court may paralyse the work of this court, because instead of dealing with corruption cases in the higher echelons of power, the Higher Anti-Corruption Court will have to deal with corruption cases of petty officials. It is for the purpose of making such practice impossible to provide a normal legal basis for the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court and it is proposed that these amendments be made to the Pro Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act. And if we don't, the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will actually get some 3,000 600 cases that it'll have to deal with, and that actually paralyzes its work. Therefore, we would like to support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to amend this law and to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u110	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. According to the report, the head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy, Krasnosilska Anastasia Olegovna, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u111	Good afternoon, Your Honor! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy considered bill 1025 on amending the Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court and recommended that the bill be adopted on a general basis. I want to emphasize that the anti-corruption court, which will give people justice in top-corruption cases, we've waited three years. On September 5th, an anti-corruption court began to work, but unfortunately, under valid legislation, it would be blocked. Three and a half thousand cases will come to the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. However, only 5 percent of them, colleagues, are top-corruption cases that have been investigated by the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. With this approach, the court simply will not be able to produce the result that society is looking forward to, and it will betray people’s hope of justice. We can't let that happen. That's why the President of Ukraine proposed, and the committee recommends support, Bill 1025, which proposes to focus the work of the anti-corruption court solely on top-corruption cases. That is, the bill suggests that the court will start working and will now deal with cases that have been investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the appropriately Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Instead, other cases referred to the court’s jurisdiction will be dealt with if they are brought into the Single State Register of Judicial Investigations from the date of the court’s commencement of its work. I would like to point out, colleagues, that the committee supported this bill unanimously. And I very much urge the Hall to support it in the same way and not betray people's hope of justice in top-corruption matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u112	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for the factions: two in, two in, two in. But once again, if, for, for, for supporting the bill. Gorbenko Ruslan Aleksandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u113	Good afternoon, colleagues! The word is Janchenko, our "Serve of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u114	Janchenko Galina Igorovna, faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u115	Can I talk now? Good day, Your Honor, colleagues! Without a doubt, the Supreme Anti - Corruption Court has been awaiting the entire Ukrainian society for a long time. Expecting a society from the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is non-corruption, objectivity and impartiality in handling cases. But do you know what the expectation is for the work of the High Anti-Corruption Court in an expert community, in law enforcement agencies, including the NABU and the SAP? Their main expectation is that the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court will finally start to deal with matters quickly, and we will get those sentences that society is really looking forward to. Today (I want to share some observations with you) The Board of Public Controls at the NABU, which I had the privilege of leading at my own time, has initiated judicial monitoring of cases that are being investigated by the NABU and the SAP. Thus, on average, more than 50 percent of the trials in such cases do not take place. The average frequency of such cases is once every two months. So when top employees are dealt with 2-3 times a year, we can certainly expect landings not for years, but perhaps for decades. Because, once again, an expert environment, law enforcement officials expect the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to start dealing with cases regularly and quickly. And that's why it's important now to clarify the jurisdiction of the High Anti-Corruption Court, so that they can first look at the cases of top-corruptioners, that is, those cases that are being tried by the NAB and the SAP. And it's because I'm a member of the Anti-Corruption Committee that I'm asking you to support this bill, which is extremely important for the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, from the start, to show the outcome, to show efficiency and to satisfy both the expertise and the Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor. Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u117	Please give the floor to the colleague Volodymyr Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u118	Vladimir Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u119	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland. Honorary Presidium, Honorary Colleagues, the Paternity Party faction project fully supports Ukraine's draft Act amending Ukraine's Supreme Anti-Corruption Court Act No. 1025. We think that this bill is very positive and, very little, it's fully supported, and it's fully supported by all of the members of the profiling committee, which is the Anti-Corruption Policy Committee. I hope that this law will still be unanimously supported today because both society and international partners are waiting for the work of Ukraine's Supreme Anti-Corruption Court to begin effectively. As my colleagues from the People's Servant have already said, the bill deals with the issue of overloading the anti-corruption court. Yes, the situation for May 2019 totalled 3,000,500 cases to be brought before the Supreme Anti - Corruption Court of Ukraine. And that's only in 38 people in a court of law. The main idea of the draft law is that it is necessary to refer criminal cases to an anti-corruption court exclusively, criminal conduct that were investigated by the NAB, which is only 5 per cent or 175 cases. Taking into account the comments made by the GNEU, the Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, taking into account the comments and recommendations made by GNEU, we believe that today it would be advisable to support this law on the basis and only after the introduction of technical rights into the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine and during the second reading would it be appropriate to support and vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u120	Thank you. Irina's heroine. Victoria Sumar, faction of the political party "European Solidarity."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u121	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to have had the opportunity in the Supreme Council to vote in favour of the Act establishing the Anti-Corruption Court, which President Peter Poroshenko brought to the Hall. In fact, the Anti-Corruption Court was created a year ago. Why did it happen that things did not just happen to the NAB and the SAP? In fact, our international partners in the International Monetary Fund insisted. At the moment, there are a number of public organizations. Well, I think it was related to the fact that trust in the Anticorruption Court, whose judges were elected including representatives of international organizations, was higher at the time. Today there is a feeling that we can trust the rest of the courts. Well, we agree that we need to get the Anti-Corruption Court up to speed and make it as effective as possible. So the faction of "European Solidarity" on the first reading will support this bill, which certainly provides for some simplification. At least the NAB and SAP are clear cases involving top-corruption, and obviously the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court has to deal with these cases first. I'm just going to give myself one of those little accents. When the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court was represented and launched, which complements this entire anti-corruption architecture, which was created by the Parliament of the previous convocation and consists of the Independent Anti-Corruption Bureau and the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, we now have a court, and when the judges were represented, they were called "Dear Judges of the High Anti-Corruption Court." I very much hope that the judges of the Anti-Corruption Court will not be expensive, but finally be fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u122	Thank you. Juršin Jaroslav Romanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u123	Colleagues, the Voice Party long ago for this bill. I'll give you a brief explanation of why. In fact, we are with you, this will be the third year, as representatives of the individual previous authorities have told us that there will never be a Supreme Anti-Corruption Court in Ukraine. And further to promoting the public, especially the churches with which our leader Svetoslav Vakarczuk negotiated, we were able to convince ourselves that such a court is necessary. And indeed, the law was made imperfectly to overwhelm him with a large number of matters. It is very important for the court to work, not as quickly as it has been emphasized, but as a quality. Will there be justifiable judgments in this court? They will, because it's a court of law. For the rule of law. And the Anti-Corruption Court is supposed to show in this example by the participation of internationals in the selection process. Thank you very much. We urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u124	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u125	Dear Sir, dear friends, fellow national MPs. As you know, in recent years, we've had a fight against corruption in Ukraine, customs corruption, court corruption, defense, the law enforcement system, etc. We actually created an anti-corruption system that worked poorly. And the struggle was determined further by the direction of the first cabinets of power. And so it is clear that such a practice must be forgiven once and for all if we are to go to Europe and want to have a better relationship with the European fight against corruption. So the work of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court is to complete the establishment of an anti-corruption system in Ukraine as an independent system. And we need these organs to work properly and legally. We looked at the comings now, the trouble going to the Anti-Corruption Court, on the first day of 14 troubles. We've seen how small officials there are now looking at these issues. We'd like to see these petty submissions and concerns, among them, not drowned by top-corruptioners on whose issues society is looking forward to today. That's why our parliamentary group "For the Future" voted in favour of this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading and on the basis of a bill (registration number 1025) amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. People's deputies please support and vote. [[13:07:36]] For 345. Thank you. Decision taken. 345 - in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you in the hall, would you please have any comments on this bill? So in general, we can't accept it. Okay. Then it is proposed as follows. In accordance with part two of article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting for a reduction in the half-time preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1025) of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. People's deputies please support and vote. [[13:08:39]] For 294 294 – against – 1, held – 46. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Yet, dear colleagues, we had quite a break at the request of one of the factions. So I suggest, just in case, that we continue our time of work after the 18th, if we don't have time to consider all the issues of the agenda. But I hope that we will still be there by 18 hours, so please support and vote. [[13:09:27]] For 299 299 – in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, Decision taken. Until our business day is over, before we completely exhaust the agenda for today. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to reduce the pressure on business (registration No. 1080). The reporter, first of all, would like to consider this issue with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:10:16]] For 295 295-yes. Against the 3rd. We're holding on to 48. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Danilo Aleksandrovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u127	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! We're introducing a bill that amends several articles of the Criminal and Procedural Code. What are we talking about? This is the decriminalization of article 205 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which has been the basis for pressure on entrepreneurs by law enforcement agencies for many years. In fact, a criminal case under this article can be violated according to the objective composition of the article only for the purpose of creating a company without the purpose of doing business. So by violating a criminal case, a tax officer could have done a search, could have done an extraction, could have done any investigative action, by pressing on the business and demanding appropriate countermeasures that he's counting on. We suggest that this article be decriminalized and that it is the right thing to do. The second, which contains this bill, we propose to raise a lower bill to bring responsibility under article 212 of the Criminal Code, i.e. this avoidance of taxation three times, three times. In order for the criminal order to be really persecuted by crimes, really socially dangerous acts. Everyone else was prosecuted in the financial and legal order without being brought to criminal responsibility by the guilty. I very much ask the Chamber, this bill is very much in store for business, and I very much ask the Hall to support it on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u128	Thank you, Danilo Alexandrovich. The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Law Enforcement in the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code on the Reduction of Pressure on Business (Registration No. 1080). This bill proposes to decriminalize article 205: fictitious entrepreneurship. Also, the amount of money is increasing, in fact, from the tax and congregation budget, to other compulsory payments. In order to establish signs of tax evasion and tax evasion in footnote 212 of the Committee, such changes provide an opportunity to create a more favourable environment for business in Ukraine. It's not usually a business support panacea, but at least a start. Therefore, after reviewing the bill, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill under registration number 1080 on the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u130	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Tistik Rostislav Jaroslavovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u131	The word may be given to Medjani Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u132	The word is given to Medan Viacheslav. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u133	Good afternoon! As far as Bill 1009 is concerned. I was the head of the task force on the side. Excuse me, I was the head of the Law Enforcement Committee's working group. I can report that the main content of this bill is the elimination of the possibility of using this article in practice as a tool for numerous abuses and pressure from investigators' officials to monitor compliance with tax legislation. The committee and the working group fully support this. So I ask all the deputies to fully support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u134	Thank you. John Ivanovich Krulko, the "Fatherland" faction. The Tsymbaluk faction, the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u135	Please pass the word to Mikhail Zimbaluku, a colleague of the faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u136	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u137	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Presidium, People's Deputies, Voters! It's actually a very good initiative by the authors of the 1080 bill, and really, that's what much of the Ukrainian business wants. When we talk about Article 205, it's a tax militia, which has been successfully and unsuccessfully reorganizing and actually operating outside the legal field for the last three years. In fact, article 205 of the Criminal Code was almost in no way used separately; it was considered in a group of 190. Indeed, the author of the bill was rightly noted, it was used by law enforcement authorities and sometimes by valid authority as pressure on those who were said to be put in place. There were operational investigations, there were follow-up actions, and then there was what was going on. If you look at court practice, there are almost 400 decisions registered from the Single Register of Court Decisions from 2016-18, and only 40 of them have actual judgments. Everyone else, and that's more than three hundred, is a contract of inquiry. This indicates that there has not been a thorough preconceived examination of the composition of the crime. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland will support this bill in the first reading, but we think that the second reading needs to be amended, and we're ready to join in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u138	Thank you, Mikhailovich. Zabrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, faction of "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u139	Mikhail Zabrodsky, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Nina Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u140	Nina Petrovna Jujanina, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u141	Honorary Presidium, honourable colleagues, in general, sharing your opinion on the abuse of article 205 of the Criminal Code, and regardless of the fact that we are an opposition faction, we are statesmen, and by learning about the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we share them. However, the authors decided to go through the exclusion of article 205 from the Criminal Code and according to the investigation of the authorities that control compliance with tax laws. In addition, on September 2, 19th, a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine put an end to the Department of Economic Protection of the National Police of Ukraine's activities on the ground of eliminating pressure on business. In doing so, the National Police Department of Ukraine continues to investigate economic crimes because the Criminal Procedure Code does not change the relevance of the articles of the Criminal Code related to the economy. So that would be a welcome decision, and we welcome it, but it turns out it's just another game with business. In order to protect the business from unwarranted interference with economic activity, unwarranted criminal persecution, it is necessary to provide for the use of safeguards for the initiation of criminal conduct through the prior analytical processing of information coming to the law enforcement authority, as well as the introduction of a specific model for the conduct of criminal investigations, which is provided in our report with colleagues from the "European Solidarity" draft of the National Financial Security Bureau Act. So in general, we will support only the first reading of the proposed bill and prepare amendments to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u142	Thank you. Is the discussion over? Yes, Victor Vasilovich Bondar. Just give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u143	Thank you. A very important bill. Please pass the word to Jacenk Anton. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u144	Anton Yatzenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, this is really an important bill, because this 205 article is such a "cow-hour" was all time, as they say, and the peoples for UBEP, the Department of Counterintelligence, the Tax Police. In fact, all businessmen in the country know this article. But it's a very nice initiative, but what I'm trying to say is that it's closely related, like 212 articles in article 209. So in my opinion and many colleagues, of course, we're going to apply -- in the footnote to article 209 we have to write that except for the actions provided for in articles 212, 212-1 of the Criminal Code. So in fact, we're not going to have any complexity on this issue. So it's a really nice initiative, but we need to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration 1080) amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to reduce the pressure on business. Please support and vote. [[13:21:36]] For 365 Thank you, the decision is made. - 365 against - 1, hold on - 1. Please show by factions. "Serve of the People" – 243, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 28, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fatherhood" – 16, "For the Future" – 18, "Voice" – 15, "non-factional" – 24. Thank you, the decision is made. The draft Law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. According to part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I am voting on the proposal to shorten half the deadlines for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 1080) amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine in order to reduce the pressure on business. Please support and vote. [[13:22:43]] For 304 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. 304 – against – 1, held – 42. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 244, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 4, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 8, "For the Future" – 16, "Voice" – 14, "non-fractional" – 18. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving public procurement (new edition) (registration number 1076). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:23:43]] For 292 292 – in favour, against – 3, held – 43. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the question. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Podlas Roxolana Andriyev, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. ProZorro, a public procurement system, has proven its effectiveness on many occasions and saved over 7 billion dollars for the state over the years. But the very area of public procurement is primarily a system of rules and principles that we established in 2016 in the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act. During the 3 years of implementation, the reform team has found many ways to improve and develop the system, so by Law 1076 we are changing everything that has hurt business, budgetary institutions and citizens in the new edition of the Public Procurement Act. This is a big bill, so I'm going to stay on the main blocks very briefly. First of all, we're lowering the threshold for mandatory application of the law to 50,000 dollars. Despite the progressiveity of the rules adopted in 2016, 59 percent of purchases today remain in the shadows. Roads are built 40 meters [40 m] in pieces just to avoid tendering. We're changing that. Now it's a mandatory auction of 50,000 dollars. From 0 to 50,000 dollars is a report in the system. All information on all purchases will be available in the analytics module and can be analyzed. When you're told ProZorro. What ProZorro has become of corruption. That ProZorro's corruption was less, no, respectable. There was no less corruption before ProZorro. It's just that she's clearly visible right now. And our job as states and legislators is to get punishment for corruption on public procurement. Bill 1076 takes the first step. We're putting in the responsibility of the head of the budget office for violating procurement legislation. We're fighting the prosecution trolling. We don't allow customers. We don't allow customers to disqualify.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u148	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u149	For business by formality. And a lot of other procedures and novelties that you can see in the law. Bill 1076 in general is the second purchasing revolution, and I propose to do it together. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u150	Thank you, Rocsolana Andrienne. For the record, the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich, is invited to participate in the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u151	Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor! The Committee on Economic Development considered at its meeting on 6 September 19th the relevant bill, the Act of Ukraine amending the Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts of Ukraine on improving public procurement (1076) and came to the following conclusions. In fact, the purpose of this bill is to make public procurement, actually, public, that is, accessible to the public, transparent and more transparent. Furthermore, this law is called upon to harmonise Ukraine's legislation in the area of procurement with the European Union Procurement Directive, as well as with the relevant acts of the second and third stages of the EU Association Agreement. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus concluded on September 5th that this law could be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy noted that the draft act did not reveal corrupting factors and that the draft act met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Digital Transformation Committee, in its conclusion, noted that the bill was adopted as a basis and generally as a law. As a result of the committee's discussions with the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee have decided, in their majority, to introduce a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Public Procurement (No. 1076), to recommend, on the basis of the results of the first reading, to adopt as a basis and as a whole, a law with technical legal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u152	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. I want to sign up for factions: two for, two for, two against. Skipper Alexander Alexandrovich, faction of the political party "Slut of the People" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u153	Please pass the word to Motovilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u154	Motovlover Andrew, political party "Slut of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that I think a clear example of reform: you can do something right, you can build a transparent system, you can see how we're saving money for the state, we can see how much business is involved. But this is also an example that reforms should not stop. Today you've seen a bill, it's a continuation of reforms, it's a change that we've seen, examining the behavior of both conspirators and participants. ProZorro is designed for business, so that an entrepreneur in our country has the right to participate, to win and to earn money by paying taxes. Please support this bill and set an example in further reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u156	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich, MP for the Future, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, this is a very important issue that we are discussing today, the issue of public procurement, the whole country has been confusing 20 years with a hook, because it's the most corrupt scheme, where they always earn money. The very positive changes proposed there, lower the barrier, there, passerby, there, some other things. But we would still like to raise a larger question from the whole group. We've been talking over and over and over and over and over and over again, the whole country is talking about what ProZorro is and who owns it, how it functions, where the state is in this process. And yet we're going to be preparing a proposal, and now we're going to assign our lawyers, analysts to go out with proposals to the President of Ukraine, and look at the role and place of the state in this ProZorro system -- who gets the money from this system. Each tender is accompanied by a total of 1 to 2 per cent of the costs of ProZorro’s tender through the entire ProZorro system. The state pays the Royalty for copyright to some inventors of the ProZorro system. As far as we know, we're going to be checking it out. And it's crazy money for the whole, every year. The state has to control who has direct access to the ProZorro system, who sees in advance the summaries, the proposals made by other participants, the legal persons who take part in the tender. And that means the conditions for corruption are being created, because no one is tracking down who actually had the previous information through ProZorro, about the prices that competitors offer, about the things that exist in the solicitation documentation. That's a lot of questions. So we suggest that, nevertheless, there be the ProZorro public system under, there, for example, the Ministry of Economics or, there, the State Property Fund, where the state would clearly control these processes, where we would clearly control as parliament, that no funds are paid to outsiders, copyright in the state, the ministry controls these things and then it was more stately. So we need to analyze these things. And the law needs to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u158	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head, your honor, I want to say that this bill is very important. Back in the 16th year, on August 1, when we introduced this bill, the whole ProZorro. Today we are making some practical adjustments, and in three years and four months of my ministry work, there was enough time to evaluate both the weak and the strengths of the bill. The second is that this bill is Euro-Integrated. And the requirement of paragraph 634 of the EU and the 19th year government plan is to confirm that we are today uniting the hall with a corresponding bill. The system is strong, it is progressive, but we are improving time, and it will improve in the future. First of all, we protect the system from unscrupulous participants by changing the complaint mechanism. The second is we limit the price dumping. We're replacing the tender committee with the authorized persons. Third, what's important is that we're making a big business out of the shadows. The price of 50 or more, good or bad, is practice. And I'd like to thank DP "Prozoro" and the Ministry of Economic Development for the joint work we've done. What I'm saying is that this bill in the early 19th year was also ready, but we've improved, we haven't been able to vote. This will also have to be considered in terms of perspective, including many other purchases that need to be made on a continuous basis during the war. Of course, it is not ideal and we can continue it for the future. What I'm saying is that today, wisdom in all life matters is not to know what to do, but to know what to do first, but what to do later. This is every situation, this is every test and every aspect. At the same time, I want to say that the committee is working together, professionally and not politicized. And this is a success that we have to move forward. Even the growth of the economy in the third quarter is a confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u160	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u161	And a continuation for the future. At the same time, I want to say that this bill needs to be supported in general. But given that the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority gave three pages of warning to me this morning too, Mr. Tarut's address is to the Employers' Federation. I propose to support it in the first reading, to shorten, Mr. Head, the procedure and for the next week accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u162	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich, faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u163	Your Majesty, my head! Dear National Deputies! I'm also a member of the Economic Development Committee. We have certainly considered this bill. It is significant in scope and it duplicates in many ways the already existing Ukrainian Law, which is, "On Public Procurement." But there are also reasonable suggestions and observations. Actually, they were bugged on the committee, under the transcript. And I'm addressing you, sir. We will support it, and the opposition platform for life will vote in the first reading. But since we've had both proposals and observations and they're in principle already on the committee, the proposal, in short procedure, is also after the first reading so that we can work on it. And it's not what you do. Now, we had, by the way, the committee said it was more like "tunning," and we need serious structural reforms and modernization of this area. So we will vote in the first reading and support it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u164	Thank you. The word is given to Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, faction of the political party "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u165	Good afternoon, colleagues! It's probably a very positive signal that we're finally looking at bills that don't distort ProZorro, like it was in the last three or four years, and the one that's been improving this system. ProZorro is a reform that we can be proud of. This is the reform that the world has repeatedly recognized as Ukraine’s first after it. And our task is to do everything possible to improve this bill, to improve this system, to distribute it for wider implementation. And make that state-to-smart transformation that many politicians have told us about. I'm just calling for proposals to be taken into account when this bill is being drafted. Do not miss out on various interesting suggestions from some deputies about creating intermediaries, introducing electronic sites, and so forth. I'm sure this bill should be adopted. And so that we can continue to try and be proud of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u166	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. All those who wish to speak, will "Fatherland" speak with a motive? Oh, no? If the question is concluded, I propose to proceed to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (Registration No. 1076) amending the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving public procurement (new edition). Please support the vote. Dear colleagues, let's keep it down. Thank you. Please support and vote. [[13:38:11]] For 351 Against 0, hold on to 0. Thank you. Decision taken. Please show by factions. "Serve of the People" – 239, "Response Platform for Life" – 21, "European Solidarity" – 18, "Fatherhood" – 15, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 19, "non-fractional" – 24. Decision taken. The draft law is to be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut in half the preparation for the second reading of the bill (registration number.) Arthur Volodymyrovich Gerasimov, if possible, be quiet. Thank you. (Registration number 1076) On amendments to the Ukrainian Public Procurement Act and some other Ukrainian legislation on improving public procurement (new edition). Please support and vote. [[13:39:27]] For 310 Against 0, hold on to 22. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have introduced a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on reducing the number of commercial activities that are licensed (registration number 1050). Dear colleagues! I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:40:13]] For 281 Against - 2. It's been held up to 40. Thank you. Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Mikolayovich, is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u167	Good afternoon, Your Honor, honourable deputies! With regard to the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the reduction of the number of commercial activities to be licensed (registration number 1050) from 29.08.19. The bill proposes to eliminate disagreements between the laws on licensing of activities of the economy and the Law on telecommunications. The Licensing Act stipulated that as of 1 January 2018 telecommunications operators would cease to be licensed under the Professional Law on Telecommunications, and the corresponding amendments to the Telecommunications Act had not been introduced. As a result, today TV operators continue to obtain licenses for the following activities: fixed telephone, wireless access, mobile telephone, and so forth. Even where the market is paying for these activities, there are other costs, even though they were not budgeted in the 18th-19th-year budget project. In addition, the bill provides for the transfer from the permissive to the reporting principle of legal activity in the field of telecommunications. In order to start operating on the operator’s market, it is only necessary to inform the RNA profile controller of the start of such activity. Now another procedure, i.e. they report and the regulator makes a decision, confirms that they can start a business. The project also ensures the implementation of the EU Association Agreement in part of the distinction between regulatory barriers to access to the telecommunications market and the professional committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the adoption of the bill as a whole. Taking into account the need to remove the said coalition as soon as possible, to simplify the conditions of access to the telecommunications market, and that this bill has been designated by the President of Ukraine as urgent. Please support his acceptance as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u168	Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. The report is given by Fedienek Aleksandr Pavlovich, deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u169	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation considered at its meeting on 5 September 2019 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Reduction of the List of Licensed Economic Activities (Registration No. 1050), submitted on 29.08.2019 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Mikolayovich, and others. The bill proposes: to remove the inconsistencies that exist between the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities, part of article 42, paragraph 8 of the first part of article 7 of the Law on telecommunications in the area of telecommunications licensing, because, according to part two of article 21 of the Law on the licensing of economic activities, licensing in the field of telecommunications has ceased to be valid on 1 January 2018. While in the Telecommunications Act, that's what's left of it. The adoption of the bill will allow for the removal of the legal conflict, the lifting of outdated restrictions, the simplification of the business process in the field of telecommunications. Taking into account the above-mentioned committee, he approved recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to adopt, as a whole, the draft law of the Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the reduction of the number of commercial activities subject to licensing in the field of telecommunications (registration No. 105), submitted on 29.08.2019 by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u170	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in. Nesterenko Kiril Aleksandrovich, faction of the "Serial of the People" Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u171	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Roxolani Podlasi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u172	Roxanne Andrew Podlas, please turn on the microphone. Or from the rostrum? From the rostrum, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, I would like to urge you to support Project 1050 because it really removes the diversity of legislation that today creates unjustified pressure on business. Indeed, since January 1, 2018, we have no licensing for telecommunications services, but licences continue to be required and issued. And this, according to the Office of Effective Regulation, in 2018 alone, telecom companies paid about 13.5 million dollars for licenses for activities that no longer require such licences. The cost of one license is from 340 bracelets for live radio and up to 9 million bracelets for international fixed communication. If we're saying that we need deregulation in a country that we're doing a smart phone state, we need to remove any inaccuracies in legislation that might interfere with business. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Klimenko Julia Leonidivna, faction of the political party Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u175	Please pass the word to Kira Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u176	Kira Ruddick, faction of the Voice political party. Please come to the rostrum. Is it from the place? Turn it on from there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u177	Good afternoon! It's a good law, we. He's removing the existing legal colony. We want to say that the Voice faction is always in business terms. Improving business conditions, and we support deregulation. That is why we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u178	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, faction of European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u179	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor's Presidency, Your Honor's Ministry, First Deputy Minister of Economic Development, Colleague! First of all, thank you to the Ministry of Economic Development, because in the spring we've drafted this bill, it's very important because we're talking about changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, three bills: telecommunications, radio frequency of the country, and licensing of economic activities. The second is an important bill for small and medium-sized businesses. And, at the same time, I want to say that the Supreme Council, which is today considering the issue, is doing the right thing in terms of running the business. Four years ago it was 156th place or 5th place, now we have 71st place. But the field of activity is still very large. We held nine Cabinetmen as a government that actually facilitates business for small and medium - size and in general for Ukraine’s business. I mean, what we discussed yesterday at the faction of the European Solidarity political party, we're going to support the committee's proposal. Clearly, this bill would like to be voted on as a whole. First of all, Mr. Head, I suggest we shorten the deadlines. And secondly, considering that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and a number of National Deputies have given their warnings and observations, please accept in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u180	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. The word is given on the motives of Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, the faction of "The Fatherland".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u181	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, you know what happened in the 15th year when we were in a hurry to vote on the so-called deregulation, the deregulation package. And then the question arises, in agriculture, directly into importers who imported different pesticides for research purposes, there was a question. Sanepidadem station in MOH, there were questions. And today there's really a business issue in the field of telecommunications. And they're waiting, without the Supreme Council, they can't solve this issue, and they're waiting for these disagreements that were in the Licensing Act to be rectified by the Telecommunications Act. Because according to the Law on Telecommunications, the commission today issues licenses, continues the term of these licences, issues duplicates and so on. And business faces these bureaucratic barriers all the time. We're going to vote on the basis, but the important thing is that we don't lose the quality of those who provide these services: they're Internet providers, they're mobile operators, and so on. And we're preparing corrections just so that we don't lose the reporting system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u182	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u183	So that we don't lose the reporting system -- in the message system in this area so that we don't lose the quality of these services. We all use the Internet with you, we all use a mobile operator with you, and we know where they work, where we can use these services qualitatively, where we can't. So let's work on the shortest term and introduce those adjustments that are going to improve the quality of these services. Fatherland will vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u184	Thank you. Are they still desirable? Taras Ivanovich Batenko, MP for the Future. Please turn on the microphone. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u185	Dear friends, the "For the Future" MP group will support any bill that draws us closer to fully deregulation of all sectors of Ukraine's economy. And we're here to create a normal space for quality competition in all sectors, including telecommunications. Clearly, then, this bill would eventually eliminate the problem of the legislature. We don't see any problems here, so we vote yes. The only request for us to work, as in other bills, on the procedure of short-term consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion is over, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for the first reading on the basis of the draft Act (registration number 1050) amending certain Ukrainian legislation to reduce the number of activities subject to licensing. Please support and vote. [[13:52:32]] For 338 Thank you. Decision taken. 338, versus 0, hold on to 0. Show me the factions, please. 234 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – Life – 20, European Solidarity – 20, Fatherhood – 14, Future – 14, Voice – 20, non-fractional – 16. Decision taken. The draft law was adopted in the first reading as a basis. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, honourable national MPs put to the vote the proposal to cut the draft for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1050, to amend certain Ukrainian legislative acts to reduce the number of commercial activities subject to licensing. Please support and vote. [[13:53:48]] For 295 295 against 2, hold on to 14. Show me the factions, please. People's Party - 234, Opposition Platform - Life - 2, European Solidarity - 18, Parenthood - 6, Future - 9, Voice - 17, non-factional - 9. Thank you, Your Honor. Ruslan Alexiyovich, I give you my word for reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, yes, we don't always have their buttons working in some national MPs, so we're asked to count the vote "for" under the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and some other legislative acts on improving public procurement (No.1076) of the National Deputy of Montenegro. Ask me to count the vote for Project 1009 of the People's Deputy Klochko, asking me to count my vote as "for" under the short procedure of draft Law 1076 of the People's MP. If I misread it, sorry, because the handwriting is difficult to understand. She also attended the Head of the Supreme Council of Razumkov, who was personally present at the above-mentioned meeting on August 29, but the card did not work, from the National Deputy of Black and asked to receive the above-mentioned information and make appropriate changes to my personal page on the official site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding my presence. Similarly today, she has failed to register with the People’s Deputy Ustenko, and she also requests to be joined by the National MP. please consider the vote in favour of the draft Law on the Special Procedure for the Elimination of Precedence (Impeachment No. 1012). All the statements so far, if there are others, we will also read at the end of the day to make this information known, it usually does not affect the results of the vote, but in this way the people's deputies can express their position on some of the issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-09-10-m0.u188	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes left before the end of our morning meeting of the Supreme Council, so I suggest we finish our work three minutes earlier. If you do not mind, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Meet me at 4:00. Please don't be late. Thank you.
