ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Good morning, media officials, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please prepare for work, take your seats. We'll check in in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Are you ready to register? Dear colleagues, please register. [[10:05:22]] Dear colleagues, there are 337 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the political party "Serve of the People" and the faction "Serve of the People", to which the Tablets Foundation has addressed itself. The day before. I'll be quiet for a minute. On the eve of Christmas Day, help children who today, oncible children today, who are being treated at OHMATDIT. However, I think it was right that this should not be an initiative of some sort to fly. It would be very appropriate if it were the initiative of the entire parliament, for example, to count as a fund, to support the children of 1,000 dollars from each national MP. I think that's the right thing to do. [[Applause]] I hope that all of them will support this and that it will help the children to be again. Whoever wants me to join you, I'll count your salary. It's a deal. So let's put it this way: from 1,000, and whoever can, more. Thank you. They'll be out in a minute. Irina Volodymyr. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to give a speech to the Ukrainian national deputies with proposals, statements, messages. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the speech. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u3	Please give Irina Heratchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u4	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u5	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues! Yesterday, the U.S. Senate adopted a military budget and imposed sanctions on all companies involved in the creation of North Stream-2. We welcome this decision. I would like to offer him a warm welcome to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is an extremely serious support from Ukraine. And I want to thank both the previous authorities and today's team, diplomats, Naftogazu, and the previous parliament, which is very much, and experts who have done so much to coordinate our efforts. And in this context, the impotence of today’s Supreme Council on foreign policy is extremely disturbing. Today the Parliamentary Committee of the Association began in Strasbourg. It is a key body of cooperation between the Supreme Council and the European Parliament. Did you know that only two people from the delegation went there from the ruling party? Although there are many questions to power today in our partners from the European Union: what is happening in Ukraine and what is happening with the Ukrainian Parliament, what is the systemic discredit of the volunteer movement, the veteran movement in the country and the Parliament itself. What are the worries that they're already laughing at on the Venice Commission, and they're making negative conclusions about, for example, judicial reform, so called, here. Similarly, we have negative conclusions on several proposals by the President for amendments to the Constitution, particularly the functions for him to direct the DBR and NABU. And now what do you do with the law that you've passed here under the D.B.I., and where do you set the standard that the Constitutional Court has already declared illegal? We have a new position today in the President's office, where he's trying to do the same for himself as the Secretary-General of the CISG and simply assign a vertical to the regional government instead of having strong regions. In fact, these are all very serious signals, including other independent institutions, such as the Venice Commission, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, regarding the insanity that is taking place today in Parliament with the legislative initiative. This is certainly true of these early mornings, which, you know, are more similar to half-military structure today than politics. We were offered to start counting thousands of dollars at OHMATDIT. I want to tell you, my friends, that since 2005, I've been counting part of my salary on OHMATDIT. That's why a thousand bracelets won't take into account what needs are needed for the hospital today and for the Tablets. The proposal of our political power is as follows. You, Mr. Head, have signed 80 MPs there. This money doesn't have to be saved, and we demand that it be counted as tablets and OHMATDIT. This is really going to be the help of the Tablets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u6	Lukashev Alexander Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u7	Lukashev Alexander, Luganshina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! For many Ukrainians, the new year is marked by the imminent beginning of an inevitable social catastrophe. I am now talking about the inhabitants of the Triotic united community in the Luhansk region. Since January 1, 2020, gas supplies have been halted in the territory of this territorial community as a result of the conclusion of a natural gas agreement between Russia's Gazprom and NAK Naftogaz Ukraine. The three - village gas station provides direct gas supplies from the territory of the Belgrade region of Russia to twenty - one inhabited area with nearly 14,000 inhabitants. This means that 66 apartment buildings and 49 social infrastructure facilities will run out of gas. The Voivodship gas distribution station provides gas supplies to 11 locations, with 18 social sites. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, the immediate technical solution to this problem is not possible because there is no direct link between the territory of the community and Ukraine's single gas transport system. Thus, since January 1, 2020, the Triotic OTH may be in a state of humanitarian disaster, with more than 700 apartments stopping heating. As a result, this will lead to a decommissioning of the water supply and sanitation system. In addition, excessive voltage on the power lines will result in an emergency shut - down. I would like to point out that more than 2,000 homes have recently been discovered in community areas where socially vulnerable citizens cannot afford alternative heating in their homes. There is a threat of halting the educational process for more than a thousand schoolchildren — 70 percent of the total population — and a complete cessation of stationary health care in Triotic OTH. I appeal to the President, the Prime Minister, to all high-ranking officials, to take all possible measures to prevent them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u8	No, Alexander Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. Thank you. Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Excuse me, Ioff Yuliy Yakovitch. The city’s Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u9	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. Good afternoon, Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished forerunner, dear Ukrainians. Today, you and I are witnessing how the President of Ukraine and his faction of the monolithic "under the tree" are trying to extend the criminal law on land circulation to the International Monetary Fund. The cynicism of power knows no bounds. We're told that the President has the right to open the market for the land because it was supposed to be in his election program. That's not true. If President Zelensky had written in his election program that was going to release Ukrainian lands from the hammer, he would not have won a quarter of the votes he had received. The President of Ukraine slyly deceived the people on another issue, a key one: he promised that the first bill would be a national project. More than three months have passed, and this bill is not yet in the Supreme Council. We are told that how difficult it is to adopt this law and to do very little work. While the Land Circumstances Act, the law on which Ukraine’s fate depends, is being tried by a mob in the ordinary area. Parliament is trying to break through its knees, force it to vote as the International Monetary Fund and Soros want. Mr. President, remember who elected you, remember the oath you gave to the people of Ukraine, and raise the question of opening the market for land in an all-U.S. referendum. And don't listen to your counselors, the Grantoids, who are sitting next to you in the Cabinet of Ministers, and turning our country into a colony of the West -- "agrarian solstice." The Opposition Platform for Life party, which in principle and consistently advocates the idea of a real people, is convinced that the question of opening the land market should be resolved not on the Caves of the hills, but not on the banks of the Potomac River in Washington, but on the citizens of Ukraine in Ukraine, on the whole of Ukraine's referendum. We urge you, Mr. President, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to stop this affair from selling Ukrainian land, the greatest treasure of our people. What you're trying to do is crime, and crime will always have to be held accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u10	Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u11	Good afternoon, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, distinguished community, honourable parliamentarians! The MP Group wants to state that we condemn any acts of violence that we observed yesterday, regardless of which side this violence is taking place. At the same time, we believe that the right to stand as citizens and the right to peaceful protest is an integral part of the constitutional freedoms and rights of a citizen. So today, my friends, we're continuing the discussion, and we started this morning by meeting together with representatives and leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups to discuss how we're going to go through the opening and consideration of the land market bill. We believe that, first of all, what I want to say is that last day's results and the results of the events that are taking place in a closed agrarian committee session, this Parliament, as of this year, also this plenary last week, should create a temporary investigative commission to investigate all the circumstances of the beating of people and militias, the police, and the other circumstances that have provoked these cases. And accordingly, the closed session of the committee, which in fact indirectly resulted in conflicts outside this Parliament. I think that this TSC should be created immediately this week and get to work. I want to say that Parliament is not a court. And today, we have made some compromise among the MPs and the leaders' groups that the profiling committee will consider all amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If they are identical, they could be grouped and submitted to Parliament as grouped amendments, but no one can take the amendment of any Ukrainian national deputy. It's his legislative initiative. And any member of the Supreme Council in the sessional room when considering this bill in the second reading may insist both on his amendment, which has not been taken into account, and on the amendment in order to put it on record. We also demand and believe that Dmitri Alexanderovich is listening to our position and the position of other factions and groups that such a key bill, eventually, like any other bill that is being considered in Parliament in the second reading, should be considered in compliance with all procedural regulations. This means that we want to get a comparative table of the key bill concerning the Ukrainian society on the land market 10 days before the session room. And that means, friends, that this year we will not look at the earth’s market, and we need to be conscious about it, and prepare for its consideration next year. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u12	Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Alexy Honcharenko, European Solidarity, Clothing and the Cuban Interfractional Union. Dear friends, there is an exhibition on the third floor at 12 o'clock in the towers of the Supreme Council. Let's get ours back." I invite all of you to take a look at the exhibition, who wants to join our interfractional association, to join the opening. It's very important to mention Ukrainian history, to mention that ethnic Ukrainians are born not only in our Ukraine, but also outside our country, and we have to return them to the Ukrainian cultural and social fields. In general, I want the Ukrainian Cuban to be like the Island of Freedom of Cuba, and in fact we have to do everything to do that, and we have to remember our Ukrainian ethnic and cultural lands and ties. The other one. Friends, you know, it was the Cossacks who had the lines of tradition. One of them was the one who got cut for corruption there. And I want to tell you that there is another official corruption in Ukraine today. And I'd say it's not news if it wasn't for the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Mr. Artem Sitnik was recognized by the court, already an appeal authority, a corrupter, and received an administrative sentence for receiving gifts and entertainment, free of charge. Unfortunately, Mr. Sitnik chose all his life instead of fighting corruption, and for the best traditions still Soviet -- what you're fighting, you are. And today, we have the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, officially recognized as a corrupter in Ukraine. I think Mr. Sitnik should leave his post immediately. If he has honor and dignity, he has to do it on his own accord. If they are not there, they must intervene, meaning the state: the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, and release Sitnik from office as Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. Since they were there with the Cold Man, someone's been listening, I told them you couldn't. We set you up to clean up the country from corruption, and you can't clean up your own aquarium. It turns out it's a lot worse that they are, and Mr. Sitnik showed us all this, completely into this corrupt mainstream. This has to be stopped. Well, that's the last of it. I want to support my colleague Irina Heratchenko's position. 80 people don't get MPs. By the way, the worst people who vote are factions of "Serial of the People." So let's send this money to the Tablets Foundation. It's going to be a lot more than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u14	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u15	Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust". Dear colleagues, oncological children today are on the shoulders of every Ukrainian and this is the main problem of our country, because oncology is now consumed by the ecological state, because of the ecological catastrophe. But another problem is that 70,000 children of miners are starving today. They starved on miner's Day, they weren't equipped for school. It's Santa's Day. The Trust MP group demands that the budget be changed immediately to 2019 and that the salary of 1 billion 170 million dollars be paid to those who worked in the mine for a thousand meters. They're standing today, the unions, under these walls, and they're demanding us. Or let's give up all our wages, the salary of the Supreme Council's apparatus, it's enough to pay off debts to miners, or we'll make some changes to the budget. The second question. Oleg Kulinic, the head of the Trust Group, presented to the Conciliation Council a 2048 draft decree on the consecutive elections in the city of Severodonetsk. For three years I fought from this rostrum to have these elections put in place. This question was put to a vote in this room. I'm sure there's every national MP in this room. There is a normal good heart and attitude toward people being robbed by local deputies today, killing people in places, stealing more than 700 million dollars. Today the law enforcement agencies are practically missing because "hand washes." Imagine being stolen on roads that did not work, 30 million are written down on a stake in trees that stand, like dead people, above roads. The bicycle tracks make 10 million dollars and the money is being cheated! No water, no gas, 10 times more utilities. And there's no match today. No one who's responsible for this. Therefore, the Trust Group today demands that two committees be assembled for elections in the city of Severodonetsk, the district city of Lugansk district, where there is war, where people are suffering, where they see death, and yet bring order to this godforsaken city, where people are suffering! And people are waiting for us like guardian angels to save them from demons. And by the way, put on a vote on the committee to pay the miners their wages over the six months. How much can it take?Oh, my God! Thank you. Sergey Shahov, Luhanščina, Deputy Group "Trust".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u16	Thank you. Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u17	Now, from this rostrum, I'd like to address you not to the Supreme Council Hall. I want to address all the people who hear me, especially those who took part in the protest yesterday against the sale of agricultural land. I want to inform you that before you went out on the street, this House planned to violate all the regulations, the law, the Constitution, the speedy regime and the secret regime of holding an agrarian committee meeting and planned to violate the Rules on Thursday to put the vote to final, the Agricultural Land Sales Act. I want to tell everyone who is in pain about this issue in Ukraine yesterday, people who came from all over Ukraine: farmers, farmers, farmers, trade unions, parties who took part -- they won yesterday because you stopped the illegal review of this Land Sales Act and did everything you could to prevent the Land Sales Act from being passed by the new year. Because if today, at the meeting of the Head of the Supreme Council, said that the Rules would not be violated, that would mean that the crime against Ukraine would no longer take place by the new year. But at the same time, the fight is not over, because an agrarian committee headed by a man who has a conflict of interests who owns a company that owns more than 500,000 acres [500 ha] of land will continue, in secret, to consider the Land Sales Law without permission of an association. Our fight is still ahead of us, but by the new year we won this round, and we've protected Ukraine from the complete mess. On the other hand, yesterday, the power structures behind the Presidential Administration team brutally beat people in the square. Now Vavilov Vladislav is in a state of emergency. And that's why the Fatherland faction requires the establishment of a temporary investigation commission to beat people yesterday at the Supreme Council, and also to investigate all the lobbyist interests that stand, and the corrupt interests that are behind the adoption of the Land Act. Once again, I want to thank all those who are fighting for Ukraine and against the sale of land. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u18	Victoria Petrovna Sumar. Are you instead of Sumar?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u19	I'm handing Jurchino over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u20	And between the factions, is it normal? Okay. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u21	Thank you very much. Colleagues, today is supposed to be a historic day. Today, we have the Law on the Cancellation of Deputy Inviolability. This is exactly what we promised our constituents, but, as always, the devil in detail. Regrettably, because of very thoughtless compromises in the second reading, this law is transformed by the easy movement of the hand into cementing inviolability. A few simple examples. First. In order to bring an MP to justice, any action must take place in his presence. One day the MP will not appear in court because he works in the hall. This is the second time he will not appear because he is communicating with the electorate. The third time something's not going to show up, it's gone. Colleagues, this right here destroys the inviolability, it cements it. Next. It's the Attorney General's monopoly, in fact, for all the actions, we've warned about that. Neither the National Anti-Corruption Bureau nor the State Bureau of Investigation, which can investigate the integrity of the investigation, will actually be able to do so. In fact, we make it dependent on one person. But a cherry on a green cake. Regrettably, no action can be taken when an MP exercises his or her parliamentary powers. — Law 88. While there is an adequate remedy for the introduction of, in fact, the limited immunity offered by our colleagues, including Alexander Ustinova. Which is suggested by number 88. She suggests that there is nothing for the deputy to do as long as he exercises his authority. Work in the district is a mandate? Authorization. The MP went to the county, that's all. Next question. That's what you remember, actually, these were the sign-ups of the People's Deputy's House on brothels, on the enterprises that raided it, is the return of the same mechanism. So there's really only two choices. The first is in the process of processing in the hall to remove all absurd remedies. But it's hard enough. The second option, and this is recommended by public organizations, such as Transparency International, is a return to second reading to the committee. Colleagues, we promised to undo the parliamentary immunity, not the cementing of it. Let us be honest with our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u22	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I want to go to the colleagues who were chosen for the first time and say things that have not yet been said from this rostrum. At least three turbulent events in the history of modern Ukraine have changed our lives radically. Remember the Orange Revolution? Hundreds of thousands have gone up against injustice, the harsh denial of their rights, and the denial of counterfeiting. An unprecedented historic decision is taken by the Supreme Court, the third round of presidential elections, neither by the Constitution nor by any law. A formal excuse is a gross violation of the voting procedure, the counting of votes and the publication of the results of the vote. History has changed. The second unprecedented historical fact, when the Constitutional Court, in one night from the head to the feet or vice versa, returned the Constitution, without a decision of the Supreme Council, without a vote in the Hall. And I gave back the unique powers of the then president. As soon as it's over, everyone knows. Why did the Constitutional Court decide to do just that? A formal excuse, a gross violation of the decision-making procedure in this room. The third historic event is January 16. January 16th, I'll get your attention. Voting in the hall by hand. Gross violations of voting procedures in the adoption of so-called dictatorial laws. What's gone wrong is everybody knows. I was recently interrogated, as were my colleagues. What does the investigator ask? In your previous convocation, when, in your opinion, and who has violated the procedure for the creation of a new government, in the approval of a new government, in the vote for a new government, was it a coalition or not? In fact, every coma is subject to an inquiry into the procedure. Friends, the Land Act, the Earth Market Act, it's the law where every coma will be looked at, at every dot, at every phrase. I am simply warning, warning, and asking those who have been chosen for the first time. Friends, this is a law that can radically change the country. Follow procedure, however difficult this may be. In the previous call of the Chief of the Supreme Council for a month and a half, in the Electoral Code, each of whom was voted each dot here. There are no claims. So that we don't have any pretenses, then we don't go to interrogation with you. I wish everyone a good political future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u24	Thank you. Natalia Juryovna Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u25	Dear fellows, the honourable ones are present! Yesterday in this room, we discussed the decision to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And many people have the impression that the Supreme Council does not want to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine and does not want to comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. But we have prepared a way to remedy this situation. But today we are proposing to every Ukrainian national deputy, and I am sure that most of this room really wants the Constitution of Ukraine to be implemented and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is aimed at protecting people in our country, is also being implemented. So today we have prepared a petition, an application for a criminal offence envisaged in part four of article 382 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, to the State Bureau of Investigation, where we ask for a clear identification of who today does not comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who will answer it personally today, and as you know, the punishment of 4 to 8 years of imprisonment for this article. Who will be in prison for depriving more than a year of legitimate payments from the Chernobyl community, Afghans, veterans, pensioners, teachers, those who should have retired five years ago, who today continue to make an anti-constitutional decision, taken by the previous parliament and then proposed by Mr. Dustenk? Who today fulfills his commission to violate the Ukrainian Constitution? Therefore, dear fellows, we address you. In order to establish the constitutional rights of the people in our country, we propose to sign a request to the State Bureau of Investigation and request that the application for criminal offences be accepted and that appropriate information be provided to the sole register of judicial investigations, that documents be provided to confirm the acceptance and registration of the application and withdraw from the single register, and that a judicial investigation be initiated immediately on this application for deliberate failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, its officials and officials of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We are confident that anyone who violates the Constitution of Ukraine must answer. The Constitution should not be copied, enforced, and protected in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is exhausted, and we are moving on to the day - to - day issues. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Improving Governance in the Field of State Tax and Customs Policy (Registration No. 2419). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:40:29]] For 219 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to Hodakovsky Paul Viktorovich, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u27	Dear Dmitry Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! The need for drafting a bill is defined by a plan of action to implement the conceptual orientations of reforming the system of organs implementing state tax policy with a view to implementing the concept of a single legal person. The draft law proposed by your mind is linked to the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts on improving the governance structure in the field of state, customs and tax policy, which introduces the activities of the DPS and the Sustainable Service in the form of a single legal person. Their territorial authorities will be able to carry out activities, not as legal persons of public law, but as separate units. The bill amends the Ukrainian Tax Code, which specifies the list of State authorities which will have the status of supervisory authority; establishes a clear separation of their functions and powers in the field of administration of taxes and assemblies; establishes the status of State tax inspections as structural subdivisions of the DPS territorial bodies acting on the basis of the relevant provisions; details are given on the delegation of powers to perform the functions provided for in the Ukrainian Tax Code, the legislation on the payment of the EES in the State Tax Service Guide. In connection with tax and customs reform, clarifications are made regarding the level of control authorities to allow administrative charges against the decisions of such supervisory authorities by taxpayers, the features of the collection of large taxpayers, and so on. The bill will address one of the key issues necessary for the implementation of tax reform measures, namely the establishment of an effective organizational structure of these bodies and the construction of a functional principle. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Welcome to the floor of the Co-Rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Mr. Hetmansev Danil Aleksandrovitch. Please, Daniel Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u29	A venerable presidency, honourable national deputies, in our country, tax reform is like a revolution that has a beginning but has no end. For all 28 years, we have been reforming the State Tax Service, the State Customs Service, and creating the Ministry of Income and Congregations, Fiscal Services, and other names. But today, it seems to us that this structure, which is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers for implementation within the framework of the Tax Code and other legislation, and the structure that provides for the only customs person and the only tax person, is finally a valid decision to complete tax reform. The bill proposes a clear distinction between the functions of the State Customs Service and the State Tax Service and the exchange of information between them. In addition, it sets out the characteristics of the salaries of government officials working in the DPS. You know, people who get 8 to 10,000 dollars can't work for the state, they can't respect themselves, they can't respect their work, so we have to solve this. In addition, certain issues arise regarding the collection of large taxpayers, tax consultations, and other issues related to the reform of the State Tax Service. The committee, after considering the bill, proposes to support it as a basis. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two for, two against, from factions. Vakarczuk Svetoslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u31	Please give the word to Jaroslav the Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u32	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak is from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we will support this bill in the first reading, although it was noted during the committee's consideration. We believe that it will help us to make a transparent, tax and tax service in the future. But most importantly, the problem that these experts are demanding and the business is that we finally have the tax and customs service turn into service helpers that help business rather than hinder business. Unfortunately, this bill does not solve them, but it does take the first steps to do so. Therefore, in our first reading, we will support and work on his regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u34	Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, the honourable ones present, this is a rare case where "The Opposition Platform for Life" is ready to support this bill in the first reading. But the main task, we all understand very well, is to reduce the role of control authorities today in creating conditions for small and medium-sized business development. And we are ready to give them today the opportunity to carry out deep reform and from a punitive function to support, advise and provide services on how to organize today's best small and medium-sized business in Ukraine. But we insist that the shameful bill that has been passed and is now leading to small and medium-sized enterprises being cut short when such cashbacks are introduced today and reduced the volume of work for the simplified system, we insist that we return to the full extent that it has been the volume of the simplified system. We also insist on this and ask the President to pledge the verification that was accepted in this room, because today we need not to fight with poor people, not with small businesses, but today we need to reform the control bodies perfectly to work as a service, not as a penal system. And this will enable our country to create jobs in a peaceful way, and it will enable people to get paid in peace of mind rather than to walk with their hands out and pray for subsidies. So we're changing our approach and reforming our control bodies today. We hope you can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u36	Alona Ivanovna's starch. He's not in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u37	Where's Schrummy? Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u38	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, our faction has carefully considered the standards of this bill. There really are a lot of positive norms: the rules on non-tariff regulation are changing, the Cabinet of Ministers' mandates for government instructions are changing -- customs and tax. It's all positive. By the way, attention is also being paid to the principles and basic basics of paying for the work of tax authorities. At the same time, I asked the committee separately how, what is the logic of the changes that relate to the Office of Large Taxpayers. The point is, it's technical, but it's not sustainable, and it's going to have a further impact on the implementation of many other bills, including that bill that's the main one on our committee right now 1210, and it's somehow inconsistent. Once again, I insist that these technical bills, despite all of their, you know, mechanical nature, will have a profound impact on every taxpayer. As an opposition faction, we will ensure that the situation of taxpayers does not deteriorate with the reforms of the various offices, tax offices, or customs offices that are being reformed today. We have made some suggestions to Minfin, as well as to the officials of these offices. And we will be actively involved in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u39	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I just want to let you know that starting in 2015, a functional reform of the tax service began. And that's when it started at the head office in Kiev. After successful completion in 2016, changes to the Tax Code were adopted, where the first definition, definition, broad definition of service functions was first identified. And the whole new article appeared in the Tax Code, which provided full interpretation and definition of tax inspection functions. Already we said that tax inspection is a service, it's exclusively tax service centers, which has caused a number of key functions to be moved from tax inspection to central administrations. And this was done in 2017. After, together with experts, international experts involved in the reform of the State Tax Service, a decree was issued by the Cabinet of Ministers in March of the 18th year on the creation of 25 legal persons instead of more than a few hundred legal persons! So we've already gone a huge way of reforming and transforming the State Tax Service exclusively into a service service with all the consequences. But in order to complete it and really create a single legal person, you need to focus more on the automation of processes, not even what is highlighted in the draft law. It's the only thing that's going to allow a real legal person to work, otherwise it's all a fiction, because now a lot of major territorial governments are ignoring them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Nina Petrovno, with all due respect, but we agreed not to add extra time. Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's the Lubenite, I see. No, one. Well, yeah, I can see that. And then we go to the vote. Two minutes, then we go to the vote. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has given its observations, which in principle can be decided before the second reading. So the MPs will support this bill, we support logic. At the same time, we would like to point out that the completion of the draft law on the powers of the tax authorities is a matter for the court to ask for permission to pay all or part of the amount of tax payable on the basis of the property of the taxpayer in the tax return. This may lead to a situation in which, as a result of the failure to pay a transport tax, for example, the debtor’s apartment will be sold, which is disproportionate to the amount of the tax. So we'd like to pay attention to that. And the second reading will be amended and we want a representative of Minfin. A representative of Minfin. Dmitri Alexanderovich, note from the representative of Minfin that when he comes to the session hall and reports from the rostrum, at least he needs to hear what the national deputies say and his remarks. And that's the feeling that they're just coming in here to take a picture and then report to their supervisor that I was just in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u43	Thank you, Dmitri Valeriovich. Bacunec Pavel Andryovich. And then we go to the vote. I see. Please turn on the microphone, with the motifs of the Bakunec, and let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u44	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the "Trust" MPs will support this bill as a basis. However, we stress that some inaccuracies need to be corrected before the second reading, namely the introduction of this wage structure and the establishment of such so - called hardship benefits or personal performance indicators. Such supplements can lead to corrupt risks and can lead to subjectivism. So you have to take that away. And in general, if these changes proposed to the government help overcome corruption, then Parliament should go to our entrepreneurs and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Governance in the Field of State Tax and Customs Policy (Registration No. 2419). Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[10:56:29]] For 341 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 224, Opposition Platform - Life - 28, European Solidarity - 25, Fatherhood - 2, Future - 17, Voice - 19, Trust - 17, Non-Factional - 9. Dear colleagues, please don't split up, there will be a few more questions now, very briefly. In accordance with part seven of article 161 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may make a procedural decision to carry out the pre-planned action of the State’s external financial control (audit) at the initiative of not less than one parliamentary faction, a parliamentary group. On December 11, 2019, the head of the political faction of the "Serial of the People" Party, David Arahami, on the basis of a decision of the faction of December 2, 2019, addressed the Head of the Supreme Council with a letter to the plenary on the commission of the Court of Auditors to carry out an analysis of the system of compulsory state pension and social insurance and social protection in 2020. And provide the Supreme Council with information on the results of such a follow-up with recommendations for improving the system, including proposals for changes to the relevant legislation. In addition, the letter adds some of the practical tasks involved in carrying out this analysis. In accordance with part seven of article 161 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to give such an order to the Court of Auditors. People's deputies please support and vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[10:58:25]] For 316 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on Change to the Calendar Plan for the Second Session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (Registration No. 2609). Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Deputy Ethics, and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich. No discussion? No discussion. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call (registration number 2609). Please support and vote. [[10:59:34]] For 325 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on to the next question. Could I have a little quieter in the hall, please? Let's see the factions. But it's easier if you don't mind. "People's Servant" – 224, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 25, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 16, "The Voice" – 19, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 14. Thanks again. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Change. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, please. Thank you. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation with a view to bringing Ukraine into line with the Law on Amendments to Article 80 of the Constitution on the Inviolability of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Registration No. 2237). Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, your mind has come up with an unforgivable bill that we've been working on for the past hundred days. No exaggeration, one of the greatest drafts of this convocation. It is a matter of bringing laws and codes into the Constitution, namely, depriving MPs of immunity, along with the establishment of appropriate guarantees for unhindered parliamentary activity. The committee also presented its position in Bill 1009, which unfortunately was not supported by colleagues in the hall. We put this issue into a separate bill and did a great job. And thank you here for all the factions that participated in this work. In general, 101 amendments were made to the bill, 32 of which were taken into account by the Committee in its entirety, in part, or editorially, 69 amendments were rejected. I'm going to turn to the basics of the bill. First. It is the right of the Attorney-General to provide data on the commission of an offence by a national deputy. This is money supported by different factions. The other one. Investigators of the NAB and the central apparatus of the State Bureau of Investigation have the right to investigate criminal conduct opened with regard to the national deputy. Third. The issue of detention permits, the selection of precautionary measures in the form of guard custody, home arrest, search, and the use of silent investigators (search) must be accepted by the Attorney General. Such problems are dealt with by an investigative judge within the territorial jurisdiction in which the judicial investigation body is located. So where it is, there's a central DBR device, and if this is about corruption crimes, it's the judge investigating the High Anti-Corruption Court. The arrest of a Ukrainian national deputy, who has been informed of a suspicion, is surely reported to the head of the Supreme Council. These are the major innovations that we have been working on during these hundred days and are now ready to discuss, and bring the hall into agreement. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, on behalf of all those working in the working group, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u47	One line, Puziychuk. Don't insist. Slavic, 2rd row. Are you going to insist? Thank you. Five, Osadchuk. Don't insist. 7th, Osadchuk. Will you insist on your work? Eight o'clock, Dirdin. Don't insist. 9th, Batenko. 13th, Osadchuk. 17th, Hero. 18th, Cimbaluk. 21st, Batenko. Taras Ivanovich, will you insist on your assignments? 22nd Klimpush-Cincadze. Sorry, 22nd Klimpush-Cincadze. 23rd, Yatzik. 24th, Hero. Are you going to insist? No, you won't, thank you. 25th, Bondar. None. 26th, Mikhailuk. Don't insist. Puzichuk, 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u48	Amendment number 29, National MP Bragar. Don't insist. Amendment number 31, National Deputy of Germany. Please, Vasil Ivanovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u49	Please turn it on. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that in this direction a new subject appears, this is the Committee of the Supreme Council. It is suggested that the issue of the possibility of drawing on the responsibility of the national deputy should be resolved by the Committee of the Supreme Council, rather than by the agreement of the Supreme Council, but that it should be concluded that a representative of the people of the people of Ukraine would be able to or would not be able to perform the functions of representative in Parliament. Because the question of not being touched by the people's MP is the functioning of Parliament in general. And nowhere in the world is there a standard that does not provide for protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u50	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u51	Colleagues, such credentials as were offered in your rights, are not provided for by the Committees Act, so it was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u52	Vasil Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? You insist. Vote number 31 of the German National MP. The committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:14]] For-65
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u53	Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. It's 11 o'clock, Pusher. Partially counted. Arsenius Mikhailovich insists, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look at us, we want European patterns and standards there. In my direction, I thank the committee, it's partly accounted for by criminal offences that only the NABU and the central DBR apparatus are investigating regarding the national MPs. But if we look at European practice and experience, in Poland it's about that any action that concerns members of Parliament agrees with the speaker of Parliament. We don't insist, my right to agree, but it's a matter of at least informing the Chief of the Supreme Council about any action that concerns the National MP. I think it's normal when the Head of the Supreme Council is informed about the actions that concern the Ukrainian National Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u55	You insist on asking for confirmation, don't you? Wait a second. It's on confirmation of 11 revisions. The committee takes it into account in part. Yeah? Denis Anatolyovich, your position is 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u56	The work of a colleague was partially taken into account. I do not deny that it can be supported if there is a desire in the room to be fully supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u57	Please be prepared. Please vote and determine. 11th for confirmation. [[11:09:13]] For 180. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u58	Amendment number 32, Vlasenko. Don't insist. 30. Irina Volodymyrna, do you insist on your work? Thank you. 37th, Burmich. Don't insist. 38th, Bondar. I won't. 44th, Mikhailuk. 45th, Ustinova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to put this bill on record, because this is a key piece of legislation that applies to this bill. We are now proposing that only one person in this country, the Attorney General, will be able to open criminal proceedings against national MPs. This will create a legal coalition, since law enforcement authorities do not know immediately when criminal conduct is being investigated, whether there is a national MP or not. That is, all the evidence that will be gathered before a national MP appears will not be used in court. This will allow you to break up the affairs of the people’s deputies. So I'm asking you very much for confirmation of 45 of the warrant for reporting to the G.R.R.R.R., which means opening criminal proceedings may not only be the Attorney-General, but also the director of the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, the N.A.B.U. and the D.B.I. Without it, it will create a legal coalition, and this law will not work. National deputies will not bear any responsibility at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u60	Committee position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u61	That's the right thing to do. This amendment entered into this project and was supported by a committee as a compromise between different factions. I partially agree with the above-mentioned arguments, which means the representative of our committee. I think let the hall decide how we should support it, no. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u62	Do you insist on voting? Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote number 45 of Ustinov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:11:56]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 46th, Mama. Don't insist. Pussychuk doesn't insist, does he? Fuck, 46th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u63	The mechanism of law enforcement is and will exist and will exist as a result of the involvement of national deputies in the responsibility of law enforcement agencies. The intrusiveness that speculation takes place in the Supreme Council Hall on television in just one person is with the President of Ukraine. Everything else is about the National Deputies, it's a special procedure of taking responsibility, well, no more. My correction speaks of things that a person may abuse, but he has a name, a name, after his father. All abuse occurs only in the process, in the mechanism itself, or in the submission of information to the GDR. I say that the Attorney General has the right and the obligation to register criminal conduct, but according to a statement that there will be no registration from reports, from the Internet, from messages, from everything else, and from materials that may and may be authorized, they have the right to assemble those units that are in the Attorney General’s Office. There's nothing stupid about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u64	Thank you. Time's up. I'm sorry. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 46 of Mamka's national deputy. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:50]] For 128 The decision is not taken. Edit 48, Krasnosilski. Don't insist. 49th, Stefanishina. Don't insist. Germany, 50th. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u65	Dear colleagues! I would like to remind once again that the people's deputies, from the words of the people, represent the people in the Supreme Council. And so it's suggested that it's not just a citizen, it's a representative of the people. And the Attorney General is obliged for 24 hours to inform the national deputy so that he can report to the people who presented him with the authority. In fact, there is the practice of discrediting and discriminating a people’s representative. And so please support this amendment. The Attorney General is obliged to report if he does not share in accusing a national representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u66	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u67	The other guarantees you and I have set out. First of all, it is the participation of the national MP in dealing with problems, almost all of which will be considered by the national MP. And, of course, there's a special order of information about the suspect. In fact, the CPC sets out sufficient safeguards and is proposed by the committee to ensure that the MP exercises his or her powers properly. Thank you. So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Are you insisting, Vasil Ivanovich? Are you insisting? Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, the number 50 of the German National MP is now in effect. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:15:59]] For-89
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u69	The decision is not taken. Next line 51, Burmich. Don't insist. 54th, Alekseyev. Turn on the potter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u70	Thank you. 54th and 89th, I'd ask for two minutes and I won't insist. Please give me two minutes to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u71	Please give me two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I, like our entire faction of European Solidarity, have supported and supported the adoption of the Law and the amendments to the Constitution on the elimination of parliamentary immunity. I would like to remind you that the project that was adopted was a project of authorship by President Prashenko, and he, thank God, was accepted, and since January 1st, there is no parliamentary immunity in the Constitution of Ukraine. Of course, we also need to consider the law in order to clean up all these matters. But unfortunately, most today, indeed, we see in the law full authority to open criminal proceedings against a national MP in the hands of one person, the Attorney General. Today the Attorney General is one, tomorrow will be another, tomorrow will be the third. But this situation will not change. So I think it creates substantial political and corruption risks when we give these powers in one hand. So this is a very important question. Well, that's two. We're talking about the people's deputies. Who's the judge? Who should investigate matters? D.B. and Naboo. At the D.B.I., we still have the director of Trub, who's been so broken up and shitted the whole country that it smells like all over the country and even abroad. And he's still sitting there. Both political repression and corruption and assaults and whatever you want to hear. And the other one is Sitnik. A new, officially recognized corrupter in Ukraine. A new one who has been recognized by a court in the name of Ukraine as committing corruption. There is already an appropriate decision by the appeals agency. And he's still in charge of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Well, if Truba and Petnik are investigating the corruption of the people's deputies, of course we'll go a long way. There's gonna be a trumpet, and they're gonna have all their lives. So I'm asking you, once again, to immediately suspend these gentlemen's authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u73	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Thank you. 63rd, Germany. Turn it on, please. 62nd? Just a minute. Yes, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues. The amendment foresees that the Attorney-General, in his concern for the use of a precautionary measure, should elaborate and confirm that the application of such measures corresponds to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in the Practice of the European Court of Human Rights and that such measures are not intended to prosecute, condemn or punish a person for signs of race, colour of skin, political, religious or other beliefs. I can see that the committee rejected it because it has a legitimate problem. In fact, though, the KPC requires only an explanation of the circumstances. It is very important for us that the Attorney General testifies that this is not political persecution according to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. Nothing radical in this direction is asked, except that we place a burden on the prosecutor of proof that it is a common crime, not political persecution. Please support this revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u75	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u76	The trouble discussed in this article, yes, should still be valid for every Ukrainian citizen. And that's why, in this plan, the committee thinks it's real. Thus, every citizen has a problem of meeting the requirements of the European Convention on Human Rights, the positions and practices of the European Court of Human Rights and so forth. Therefore, the committee finds that it is not appropriate to isolate and prescribe it separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u77	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 62 of the People's Deputy of the Prince. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:57]] For the 120th. The decision is not taken. Next line 63, Germany. Please turn on Vasil Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the decision of the Constitutional Court and the Venice Commission that the question of the particularity of the involvement of a representative of the people is not an individual question, it is a question of the proper functioning of Parliament, it is a question of the inability of a political quest and persecution on an ideological basis. And that's why we're proposing, and we're proposing, and support, please, that the issue should be agreed with the committees of legal policy and law enforcement that will say that there are no issues of political engagement and all. And everything else goes by the law, that's all. Please be supportive. And one more thing I want to say is that today the question of responsibility is not a panacea, it is someone who has imposed on society to break up Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u79	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u80	Vasil Ivanovich, we would love to support your amendment, but it goes beyond the Constitution and the Committee Act. Absolutely, the committees are not entitled to agree on such things as the Supreme Council, according to article 80. So it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u81	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet on the vote of National MP No. 63. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:03]] For-92 The solution. Sorry, Vasil Ivanovich, there is no such procedure. No, I'm sorry. 65th, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u82	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, frankly, I'm kind of surprised by the position of the committee, which is that it's kind of the Supreme Court's conclusion that there's something outside the constitutional field. Because my proposal is, by analogy, taken from 111 articles of the Constitution that refer to the impeachment procedure. It clearly states that under the authority of the Supreme Court, it is up to the Supreme Court to determine whether there are signs of State authority in the actions of the President of Ukraine. This is not about the decision of the investigating judges, it is not even about the court’s decision. This is an exclusive quasi-judicial political and legal decision of the Plenary of the Supreme Court, where judges, by way of a vote, decide accordingly. So it's definitely not a court case. And why don't we apply this procedure to the national MPs right now? We're comparing both the President and the national MPs in the same approach. And what's more, I'm going to remind the people's servants here that in September, when you passed the impeachment law, you re-created that rule. And they put out a special procedure for this, where they just predicted the possibility, in fact, of a non-convictional conclusion to the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u84	Dear Mr. Ruslane, we have also talked to you on several occasions about the fact that the involvement of the Supreme Court in the trial procedure is, unfortunately, impossible in the form in which it exists. Impossible. Because you said yourself that this is a quasi-political decision. So in this case, we're talking about other guarantees. It is also about involving only the specific central DBR investigators and determining one court at the location of the body, and the investigating judges of the Supreme Anti-Court. There's no other mechanism to rewrite it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? You insist. I'm betting on the vote number 65, Knyazevitch. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:37]] For-138 138. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 66, Alekseyev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again that it is to refer to the competence of the Attorney-General, who is naturally politically dependent on Parliament, because the Attorney-General's office is voted by Parliament in favour of the appointment and for the removal, that he has certain political risks. And I would like to point out once again that the procedure, just when the Supreme Court concludes on the possible risks of political persecution, is not a judicial procedure. The same procedure is laid down in the impeachment law and the same procedure exists, as my colleague Ruslan Knazevitch has just said. And there is also such a procedure in the Constitution when the Supreme Court concludes on possible political risks. Moreover, I would like to point out that there are such procedures in many European countries, such as Spain, Romania, Cyprus, the Netherlands and many European countries. So I ask you to vote and support this amendment, and to do so, to destroy the political one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u87	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, the decree number 66 of the Alekseiv People's Deputies, was not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:27:19]] For 132 The decision is not taken. Edit 68, Kozemyakin. 67, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Mr. Dennis, we've discussed various options with you, apart from the Supreme Court, we've talked about the Anti-Corruption Court, but we see that the country is not just going to go into authoritarianism, but actually because of changes to the administration, it's opening the way to full federalization. And anyone who opposes this will be called to account that this is not the case, because our courts are not reformed, I think in all matters concerning MPs, the presence of a political element should be checked by the Higher Anti-Corruption Court. Because political persecution can mask nonpolitical articles. It is evident that the investigating judge of the Court of Appeal, and thus the judge of the first instance, as the committee suggests for second reading, is not a sufficient barrier to avoid political persecution. The amendment foresees that a decision on the application of precautionary measures should be considered by a judge of the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court, and we insist on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u89	Do you insist on voting? Amendment 67 of the People's Deputy of Knieżick, it is not counted by the committee. Committee position, sorry, more.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u90	You and I actually said that this is the only model that can be taken into account, actually, in the existing legal system, certain safety nets that are elevated. But we consulted both the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court and our colleagues that this model wasn't supported because it's incompetent, to investigate, for example, murder by the High Anti-Corruption Court. I'm personally, and I've talked to you, and I'm allowing this model, and I'm actually willing to support it. But we were actually discussing that this model, which was proposed by the committee in the end, was compromised and can be supported by a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u91	Thank you. Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote number 67 of the Prince. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:29:39]] For 112 The decision is not taken. 68 Amendment, Cosmiakin. Don't insist. 69th, Germany. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to pay attention. It is a matter of ensuring the objectivity of any matter, and it is proposed that the Attorney General, after the Committees have concluded, send it to the Supreme Court. The Constitution provides for an honourable reporter, read about the President's impeachment, they go with a question of whether there is a serious crime or not before the Supreme Court. What are you doing here that's not in the Constitution? Think about it. And the order is given by the Committee of the Supreme Council, and the responsibility of the committee is to carry out and conclude whether the perpetrator is a deputy or a political persecutor. That's what this is about. And you're already tying the label. That's what this is about. This is unacceptable in procedures and even more criminal. I'd like you, dear fellows, to think, support us, we don't have a second exit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u93	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u94	Vasil Ivanovich, your ruling says that the issue of the conduct of the investigation is brought to the attention of the Supreme Court. This is an exclusive court procedure, and it is examined by investigating judges who are not present at the Supreme Court. So it was rejected. None. You're here mixing up a procedure of pretrial investigation that can't be agreed upon in the Supreme Court and the procedure referred to in article 111 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u95	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you 69 people's deputies in Germany. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:32:01]] For-93 The decision is not taken. Amendment 70, Germany. Wasil Ivanovich, or are we going to unify? Oh, no? If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u96	I'd like a timer to shut it down and tell you one thing. When you ask me whether I support or not, please turn on the microphone. I'm equal to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u97	I'm sorry, Vasil Ivanovich, I'm not asking you to support me. This is the decision of the hall. I'm asking if you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u98	I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u99	I see you insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u100	I insist, so please turn on the timer now. My fellow Members, I would like to say that the decision that was taken, I mean the law, with the violation of the Constitution, of all the permitted procedures concerning article 80, which was referred to and on which platform they had made to deprive, to allow for the persecution of the MPs, I will say that this is a decision and this law is challenged in court today. And I want to remind you once again, the Venice Commission has made it clear to Ukraine that there is no similar practice, that it is not a national MP, it is a national MP, a representative, and it is about protecting the function of a deputy corps, a parliament as a whole, and coming out of the fact that, because of an individual, breaking up and resolving the issue of repression in relation to ideology, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u101	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u102	Well, actually, it's about what we said in the previous speech, about the involvement of the Supreme Court, where there are no investigating judges in this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u103	Are you insisting? Vasil Ivanovich, do you insist? Tell me, yes, I will. Okay. I'm putting the vote to number 70 of the National Deputy of Nietzschemanka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:34:21]] For-94 The decision is not taken. Line 71, Batenko. Aren't you going to insist on your papers? She doesn't insist, either, does she? 77th, Gunman. Princey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u104	Thank you. This is indeed an important amendment, since, considering that a national MP is a political actor and has the right to express political positions and views, it is important that he is not persecuted for it. Taking into account the procurator’s exclusive authority to decide whether to submit information to a register or to agree to a problem, we suggest that we set out in detail the circumstances to be determined by the court in the decision to apply a precautionary measure. If the party does not refute the slightest indication that the measures in question are intended, such as political persecution of a person or persecution by another sign, the court must refuse to satisfy the problem. And this amendment embodies the standard that the European Court of Human Rights is operating under and whether there is a use of criminal persecution for the purpose of political debate. Please support this revision. The committee believes that the prosecutor and the court can ignore the arguments of defense regarding the political nature of the criminal case against the deputy, which is a completely disgraceful and wrong position that will then strike you. Please, colleagues, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u105	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u106	I'm reading your amendment, yes, "the problem with high probability is aimed at persecuting, condemning or punishing a person by the signs of his race, the color of his political, religious or other beliefs." In fact, these are the requirements that are foreseen in all the international conventions to which Ukraine has joined, and any concern, and any court is checking on these signs of any concern for a citizen. That is why we felt that it was not worthwhile to stress it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u107	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote, number 76 of the People's Deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:36:56]] For 115 The decision is not taken. Number 77, Gunman. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in this direction I am also going back to the European practice of our Polish neighbours, where it is said that the actions that take place and apply to members of Parliament are based on them. If we're talking about consent in the Polish model, we're talking about information. So we're stuck on the principle that we've eliminated the inviolability and that was our promise, and we've done it. However, parliament as an institution should be protected, because our colleagues correctly pointed out that if Parliament had not been protected at the time, no one would have gathered here at the end of February 14th. That's what the script was for. So I believe and insist, and please support the Hall, that the Chief of the Supreme Council should be informed, informed, not agreed. We don't contradict the KPC, we don't go into the Constitution about the actions that will take place with regard to the people's deputies. I insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u109	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u110	My colleague, you're reading, you're expanding that the information to the ERDR is submitted not only by the Attorney-General, as we agreed before, but also by the Deputy Attorney-General, the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as by the Deputy Attorney-General, as the Head of the Supreme Council, as well as by the Deputy Attorney-General, as the Head of the SAP. We've previously agreed to a hall that we're narrowing the introduction to the GDR just by the Attorney General. But you're just expanding this list. So, please, for the sake of the court’s judgment, we not only provide information but also expand the list of individuals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Amendment 78, Germany. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u112	You can't insist, sorry. German, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. I'm sure you know that. That there is not one branch of power that we have today, but perhaps the bitch of power, unfortunately, there is no such thing as the mess that is about the national MP. You look at the judges. The findings on whether there are grounds for bringing the Constitutional Court to justice’s responsibility are based on the decision of the Constitutional Court in the Grand Chamber, the Constitutional Court says, on this point, it concludes. With regard to the judge of the General Court, the High Council of Justice gives the commission. As for the President in the case of impeachment of Ent or impeachment, read as you wish, the Supreme Court also gives. So tell us, what are we anointed, national deputies, that we are not equal to the branch of authority as provided for in the Constitution? Why we don't have one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u114	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u115	Vassil Ivanovich, you're reading in this right, and again you're filing an appeal against the first instance of the Grand Chamber of the Supreme Court, where this procedure is not foreseen. The Supreme Court in criminal matters plays only the role of a cassation. In this case, you're actually talking about court reform in a separate case. So we've left the judicial system the way it is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u116	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 78 of the German National MP. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:41:05]] For-90 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Dear colleagues, back to 77. He insists on voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't vote on her. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we did not vote for his amendment. We do not go back to looking at it. There was no vote. The vote didn't take place in the 77th. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't vote her, and you know it, Arthur Volodymyrovich. Amendment No. 77 of the People's Deputy Pusherenko, it's out of the question. Arsenius Mikhailovich, I have a request not to go back to work, because this is a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u117	No, you can't. You've already asked your question. The next time, you may have less communication with your colleagues. Edit number 79, Pushman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Arthur Volodymyrovich, look, the 77th Pushkin didn't vote. I insisted on her, but she wasn't put to the vote. So I ask, as in my previous speech, to put it on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! 77th? I'm betting on the 77th vote. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:42:59]] For-136 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Next line is 85, Cymbaluk. Eighty-one. Counted. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich. You're not going to insist on voting, are you? Please prepare for the vote. The word is given to Osadchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, please note the 81 amendments that the committee has completely rewrote in the new article 482, paragraph 2, by setting out the procedure for drawing on the responsibility of the national MP. There are two extremely risky paragraphs that have already been reported from the rostrum by my colleague Jurchisin and Ustinov. So we ask you to place this right on confirmation of the exclusion of paragraphs two and three. I'm going to read them for the transcript so that I can understand what this is all about. It's like, "Absac 3. Such concerns are being considered for the mandatory participation of the Ukrainian national deputy. The following judge is obliged to notify the Ukrainian National Deputy in advance of the consideration of the planned trouble, in addition to the use of undeclared investigative (search) actions or searches. ” And the next paragraph. "If the Ukrainian national deputy has not attended a court hearing for no good reason, or has failed to report the reasons for his absence, such concern may be dealt with without the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy." These paragraphs allow you to hang any matter forever. We ask for confirmation on the exclusion of these two paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u121	Wait. Dear colleagues, first of all, you can put an application or for confirmation, it's been accounted for. If I'm not mistaken, you can't put it on partial confirmation, because it's going to be hard enough to understand from the voice what paragraphs we're counting, which we're not counting. It's kind of a practice. You may insist on rejecting the amendment at all. You insist on turning it down, don't you? Dear colleagues, the position of the committee, and then we go to the vote. To confirm! We'll bet on confirmation! Dear colleagues, let's move on. Well, it's not here. You can't even do that in part. Partly you can't! For confirmation. For confirmation, he says. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote and, for the time being, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u122	Colleagues, there's no way you can do all the right, it's about 81 revisions. We were only talking about the last two paragraphs in question, the mandatory presence of a national MP in court. In dealing with problems, apart from searching and unspoken investigation. We said you could count it not entirely, but in part only in this part.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, number 81 was counted by the committee. Now, I take it, the position of the committee has not changed, the committee insists that this amendment remain because it is important for. I'm quoting the head of the committee. It is important for this bill. So I'm putting to the vote number 81 of the Pavlück People's Deputy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why? For confirmation. You didn't ask for confirmation? That's true. Dear colleagues, let's move on, really. There was a position to take into account in part — so impossible. We didn't get confirmation, it's true, Andrew Petrovich. Let's move on then. You didn't ask that question. Okay, let's vote for confirmation, we won't. I'm betting on the vote number 81 of the Pavluk People's Deputies. The committee is listed, and the committee insists on this. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[11:47:48]] For 327 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. "People's Servant" – 216, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 29, "European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 117, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 16, "the Non-Factional" – 14. Amendment number 85, Cymbaluk. Don't insist. Germany, 86. Please turn on the microphone. We've already passed 74. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u124	Dear colleagues! My fellow Members, I would like to be satisfied with our proposal that the special order in which a national MP is called to account is a statutory mandate, which provides for both the unhindered and effective exercise of his powers. And there can't be any intervention when he's performing representative functions from the people. That's what this is about. And I'd like you to write down this very rule, this rule has just been written down, which will allow without any motive to attract or persecute, including the political motives of the Ukrainian people's deputies. We are already with you as witnesses to the political silos that are being searched and listened to today. Please take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u125	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u126	Colleagues, the committee supported Amendment 88.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u127	Six.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u128	No, no. I mean, the committee supported Amendment 88. So they're mutually exclusive. If we review the 88 - amendment approach, then we can vote and consider the amendments that apply to this article because they are mutually exclusive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u129	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of 86 German national deputies. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[11:50:11]] For-81 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Edit No. 89, Aleksiev. Don't insist. 90th, Ustinova. Don't insist. Knazevitch. Alexander Yuryevna, let's keep an eye out. We're going fast, yeah. It's counted. 84th. Counted. Partly, yes. Osadchuk, 84th. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, we've now moved on to discussing a very important part of this law, namely what it means to be an individual. There have been many speeches on this subject, but I think there is a consolidated position of the Chamber that a member of the Supreme Council should not be held accountable for his statements by politicians, including outside the Supreme Council. I'll remind you, when the President of Ukraine in this room was acknowledging us all for supporting the vote of the relevant paragraph in the Constitution on the inviolability that we have removed, he literally said, "They won't be responsible for political decisions, for voting or for any political or public statements." I say that for the moment, the amendments that are in this law are not in line with the President's promise. That's why we're asking 88 amendments to the OPCW to cancel because it's actually returning the MP's immunity, and we're willing to support 87 of the Order of the People's Servant, and 90 of the Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u132	In this case, this amendment is also mutually exclusive to the 88 amendment, which also applies to the 27th article. And here we have to determine from the Consolidation of the position of the room, which of the positions will be supported -- or one that was supported by the committee, 88 amendment, or amendment 84.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, 84 are included in part, and the author insists on taking full account. Don't insist, everything. Thank you. Amendment number 90, Ustinova. You're not insisting again. 88th for confirmation. Please turn on the Ustinov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, 88 revisions made by the Deputy Mamka of the OPCW say that this is actually a return to the MP's integrity. If you read this law clearly, it says that MPs do not have legal responsibilities while they are in office. I'm sorry, it's five years you're going to get MP's when you're making an oath, and then on the last day of the Supreme Council's work, they're going to stop you. So if you support this right now and you press the green button, it's going to cement the parliamentary integrity, you can't support this. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u135	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u136	In this case, the interpretation of an amendment takes place in this way. We read it, let's read it together again. "People's deputies don't have legal responsibility for the result of voting or expressing--where? - in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its organs, as well as in the statement, in the exercise of parliamentary powers, with the exception of responsibility for insult and slander." The last sentence refers to the question of expression. But please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Let's calm down in the hall. Dear colleagues, the number 88 law-abiding MP Mamka, was counted by the committee, and the committee is now confirming the importance of this bill. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? I'm betting on the vote number 88 of Mamka's national deputy. It's taken into account by the committee, please support and vote. [[11:54:46]] For 326 Decision taken. The edit remains counted. 90 revisions, Ustinova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u138	Please include this, because it's the edit that provides the identity, not the extra, that creates the parliamentary immunity that we all seem to want to take off. By voting 88 votes, you have cemented this inviolability, so do not lie to your electorate that you want to take it off. And the 90th amendment that I'm asking you to take into account is not just about speaking in the walls of the Supreme Council, it's about making an identity for us deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u139	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u140	The voted room is just number 88, it's in contravention of line 90, that is, if the 88 is supported, then 90 rights should be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 90 of the People's Deputies of Ustinov. She was not considered by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:56:10]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 91, Knjazević. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u142	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, frankly, I am somewhat surprised at why the committee decided that this amendment was contrary to the Constitution. In general, I would recommend that the committee be very careful with these definitions, because this amendment is clearly and in accordance with the Constitution, the Status Act prescribes all kinds of parliamentary activity. If you're surprised by the phrase "congregation, rally, march and demonstration," it's a direct quote from the Constitution. I purposely rewrote it into a word from the Constitution. To say that the standard of the Constitution is contrary to the Constitution, that's a fairly arbitrary interpretation. I'd be very careful with things like this. So I ask you to support this amendment, it's taking down all the discussions in this room about the kind of parliamentary activity. Then no one will have any questions, which is exactly what we are talking about in 88 directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u143	Amendment No. 91 of the People's Deputy of Knazević. The committee didn't count it. Put it to a vote, huh? I'll put her to a vote, please identify and vote. [[11:57:27]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have three minutes until recess. I suggest we continue the meetings and then take a break so that we don't break up the matter. Let's move on. Who will insist on their work? Nobody insists? Dear colleagues, then I propose to go to the vote for the law as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to bringing Ukraine into line with the Law on Amendments to Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Inviolability of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Registration No. 2237). Ready to vote? Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[11:58:50]] For 291 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 223, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 22, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 0, "The Trust" – 17, non-fractional – 14. Thank you all again. Decision taken. There's a break until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u144	I give the floor to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk for the announcements. People's deputy, Kiva Ilya Volodymyrovich. I'm just looking at it, you didn't vote too hard. You're so insistent at work right now, but I didn't see the vote. I got it right away. So you don't need to pay. I understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there are several announcements about the creation of interfractional MPs. In accordance with article 60 with the 1st Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the 9th Interfractional Union "One Belt - One Road" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leaders of this association are the national deputies of the Ukraine of Black Viktor Ivanovich and Koltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. There is also other information that according to the same article 60, with the symbol 1 of the Rules, an interfractional parliamentary association "Energy Independence and Security of Ukraine" has been created. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Bondar Mikhail Leontijovich, was elected head of this association. And yes, the last. And there's also an interfractional MP union called the Development of Ukraine. The heads of this association elected Ukrainian national deputies Bunin Sergey Valeriyovich and Zibu Tetjana Viktorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u146	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You have been invited to consider the Bill of Treasures of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2019 (Registration No. 2614). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote. And I'm looking at some national MPs going to work for the government, aren't they? Almost. Then write an application for approval. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:44:18]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me if there is a need for discussion? No, it's not. Then comes the chairman of the committee. Chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Calchenko Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u147	Honorary Presidium, honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution for the approval of the Treasury of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, this is one of the parliamentary powers. As we know, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council of the current fiscal year did not approve the funding. But according to the Laws on the Status of the People's Deputy, on the Committees of the Supreme Council, the Rules lay down requirements for the determination and approval of the cost of individual costs for the provision of both the activities of Parliament as a whole and of the national deputies. Taking this into account, the Regulatory Committee, at its meeting, reviewed a project of funds from the Supreme Council developed and submitted by the Authority for 2019 and a standard of expenditure for one national deputy for the current year, based on the provisions of the Act on the National Budget of Ukraine for 2019. And the committee decided to submit to Parliament a draft fund of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 2019, a standard of expenditure for a national deputy of Ukraine for 2019, which was added to the letter of the Supreme Council's Apparatus dated 16 December, and to submit to the People's Deputies of the Regulatory Committee for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft decree on the value of Parliament for 2019, and to recommend that Parliament take a decision on the draft in accordance with articles 114 and 138 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, may we proceed to the vote? Vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:47:06]] For 324 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider bill number 2261. The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to extend the capacity of the State authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities, and other legal persons, irrespective of the order in which they were created in court. Reported by the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u149	Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor! Let me briefly remind you of the essence of this bill. Article 131 of the 2nd Constitution secures the legal representation of other natural and legal persons in the courts. Taking into account the Transitional Regulations, the Constitution of 1 January of the following year the right of public authorities and local self-government authorities to hire lawyers becomes a duty. Instead, the procedural codes of Ukraine, the Master Procedural Code, the Code of Administrative Justice and the Civil Procedure Code establish the right to self - representation by legal persons, including the authorities of the State and local self - government. However, this right by the authors of the previous judicial reform is artificially narrowed down in such a way that the legal person takes part only by means of his or her supervisor or member of the executive body. Thus, as of January 1, 2020, there will be only two options for legal persons who have cases before the courts: either to involve a foreign representative, or a lawyer, or to participate personally in the courts. But first of all, the involvement of a lawyer requires extra expenses, and for the authorities of state and local self-government, these are budgetary expenses that exceed the costs of their own lawyers. And secondly, it is not always possible for a lawyer to be more qualified to represent the client's interests in comparison with a public authority lawyer who knows the nuances of a certain sphere of activity. The second option also does not seem optimal and does not meet the objective of justice – to improve its quality. Because the director is not always a professional lawyer and can be qualified to represent interests in court. In addition, the State, the territorial community, or the legal person often participates in dozens at the same time, or even hundreds of cases, that will prevent the leaders from preparing themselves for them in a professional way and will make their full activity impossible for them as leaders. Finally, court hearings on various cases can take place at the same time in different regions. Thus, the manager simply cannot physically participate in them and the right to self-representation guaranteed by the procedural law cannot be realized at all. During the committee’s second reading, a comparative table has been prepared for a bill containing 25 amendments and proposals that propose that 9 amendments, including in part 16 amendments, should be rejected. We have also decided to clarify the title of the bill, which will be entitled: "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to extend the possibility of self-representation before the courts of state authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government bodies, other legal and natural persons, other legal persons irrespective of the order in which they were created." The Chief Legal Office has made a note of the bill, among which we consider it necessary to introduce chapter II of the bill as follows: "This law takes effect from the day of its publication." General conclusion of the General Legal Office: The project can be accepted in a second reading, taking into account the comments made. So please, colleagues, support this bill, which has no politics or any professional interests. We'll save the community's money, the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear colleagues, follow the rules. No. 2, Petaovka. Don't insist. Please don't break up, there's very few rights. I hope that not everyone will insist on what they do. Makarov, 6th Amendment. He insists. Hope was not vindicated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u151	I've got three revisions. It'll take two minutes. We'll vote on everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u152	Two minutes? I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u153	Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 131, with the mark 2 of the Constitution, are exclusively represented by a lawyer in a court of law. This standard has been in effect since January 1, 2020, that is, three weeks later. Instead of preparing for the implementation of the Constitution, we are now trying to bypass the Constitution, calling representation self-representation. I would like to point out that, in accordance with the valid rules of procedural codes, a third party can participate in the trial personally, it is self-representation, or through its representative. Thus, the individual’s self - interest in the trial is self - representation, and the representation of the person for trust is representation. Legal persons exercise self - representation through their organs. An employee of a legal person or a working group is not an organ of a legal person. In showing his authority in court, the employee must demonstrate his trust. The presentation of confidence in the court is representation, not representation. My point is that for those small enterprises of OTG, small local self-government authorities, it's enough to put a person in the register for a government register that has the right to act on behalf of a legal person. All others must carry out the Constitution, conduct tenders, or otherwise hire lawyers to provide professional legal assistance, as set out in Article 131 of the Constitution with the mark of two. Please support my three revisions and please put everyone to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u154	Then I suggest, I'm going to put the 6th, and then when we move, I'm going to put the other adjustments. No. 6, Makarov. The committee rejected her, the author insists on voting. I'll put it to a vote, please identify and vote. [[12:54:10]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. No. 7, Konstanovic. Don't you insist? Thank you. Crying, 9 o'clock. Don't insist. Five, don't insist. Constandavich, 13th row. Makarov, 15th. To the vote. Dear colleagues, Makarov reported on his rights. I'm betting on the vote number 15 of the people's MP Makarov. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[12:54:59]] For 1052 The decision is not taken. My dear colleagues, I take it, were still insisting on the 29th turn, and then we can move on to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I give you my word, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u155	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, I, in principle, did not change my position when I considered this bill in the first reading and on the committee. I firmly believe that this bill contradicts both the 131st with the 1st and the 11th part with the 1st Transitional Positions, because there is an attempt to change the concept, and instead of what is provided by the Constitution, as a representation of authorities and self-government, to foresee some new institution of self-representation. So, as far as I'm concerned, the only way out of this is to take my turn. And with this amendment in mind, this law will only take effect when it becomes effective if it becomes effective if it changes to the Constitution in part of the elimination of the legal monopoly. On another occasion, this law will be in conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, which will take effect on January 1. That is why we cannot and do not have the moral right to produce unconstitutional laws right now or those that are questionable from the point of view of the Constitution. There will be a lawyer who will appeal to the Constitutional Court or a group of lawyers. And I don't know what the Constitutional Court's decision will be, but I can predict that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u156	Thank you. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u157	This bill does not conflict with the Constitution and Article 131 with the badge 2. And the institution of self-representation already exists in procedural codes and was introduced just as opposed to the representation provided. The monopolies of the bar, followed by article 131-2. So we're just improving the institution of self-representation and adding state-of-the-art lawyers who can represent legal persons. So there is no violation of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, correct number? Please turn on the Zimbaluku microphone. Excuse me, Ruslan Petrovich. I'm betting on the vote number 29 of Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[12:57:29]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u159	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this bill and the report, because, in fact, this is a very necessary legislative arrangement for the functioning of local self-government and the elimination of the inadequacies that have been adopted in the judicial reform itself, more faithfully, and in changing this legislation. I thank you for supporting my rights and thank you for your constructive work, and Fatherland will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u160	Thank you, Michael Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the extension of the possibility of representation of the authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local authorities, other legal persons irrespective of the order in which they were created in court (registration No. 2261). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[12:59:14]] For 307 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Suffritch is out of procedure, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u161	Thank you. The presiding officer, honourable colleagues, had many accusations yesterday that the suspension of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine had been related, not to laws related to the market of the land, but to avoid the adoption of the Law on the Final Cancellation of Deputy Impetition, to the blocking of the Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions. Today we have demonstrated by 291 votes that we are behind the final lifting of parliamentary immunity, the amendment of the relevant laws. But I would like to ask the following questions about the President of Ukraine's proposals for Bill 0979 on the interim commission of inquiry. Please put my proposal to the vote and consider it with the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u162	Let's put 2317 now, after. I'm going to talk to the factions now, and, I think we'll put him in if we don't object. Okay, Nestor Ivanovich? Dear colleagues, we are now going to Bill 2317. Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Danilo Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, before you consider re-reading the relevant decision and commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which gave us last Thursday, we have reviewed Bill 2317 on the Committee and are taking it back to the Hall today. This bill on improving the electronic administration of excise taxes on fuel. This bill, which is very much expected of us both agrarians and metallurgy, and industrialists, is expected of us by all those who apply this system. I stress that we should accept it as soon as possible, since its acceptance is linked to their exclusivity to pay unmotivated fines. So for a second read, we looked at the bill and we looked at the six rights that were given for the second read. You are given a table for re-second reading, into which these amendments are implemented. This is Amendments 37, 66, 76, 91, 96 and 101. We considered it on the committee, voted on it. You can see in the committee's decision table on these amendments. I ask the Supreme Council to support the Committee's decision and second reading, and in general to adopt a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u164	There's six rights. Do I get it right? No. 37 was rejected. Right, committee? Doesn't the author insist? Is he insisting? Olga Vasilevska-Smagluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I insist on this direction because it will reduce the cost of gasoline to up to 5 billion dollars in the state budget and supported by the Ministry of Finance. So I think this amendment can be supported and I encourage my colleague to do it. In addition, we have all the gas, 75 percent, from the Russian Federation. And I think it's still necessary to update the excise on gas, which hasn't been updated for many years and is uncompetitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u166	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u167	Committee position: reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the election of National MP Vasilevsky-Smagluk number 36. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. 37, number 37. Sorry, yeah, I said 36, 37 revisions. I'm betting on the vote number 37 of the people's MP Vassilevsky-Smagluk. Please identify and vote. [[13:04:27]] For-66 The decision is not taken. No. 76. Is the author insisting? I'm sorry. No. 91, Dubinsky. 91 papers, Dubinsky, do you insist? Well, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, this amendment refers to the suspension of the introduction of so-called "expenditure meters" for the national manufacturer, the Kremenchuccine NPP. Because the fuel plant in Ukraine is the only one that's working right now. And he sends it by rail or by car. And the load goes on in the car tanks and in the tankers on the scales that the plant has. And it's a world practice, it's a weight management plant. Expenditures are investment projects of 150 million dollars and fuel disposal. Because we're going to have to rearrange the entire system, the pipelines are going to change 500 millimeters by 150 millimeters. And that's the load on the national manufacturer that needs to be suspended by 2022. During the meeting of the committee, the Ministry of Finance and State were present.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u170	Thank you. No, Alexander Anatolyovich, with all due respect. Do you insist on voting on this? Committee position, 91 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u171	The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, number 91 was not counted by the committee. The committee is still holding the same position. Please identify and vote. [[13:07:18]] Z-70. Edit number 91 not counted. Edit No. 96 of the People’s Deputy of Jujanina. Don't insist. It's number 101, the national MP's name is also Eugene. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, we now have the right to confirm and then we turn to voting in favour of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u173	None. They weren't. Only those amendments that the committee has just stressed. Ninety-three. Daniel Alexandrovich, 93, is asked about it. I don't have it. re-line. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, 60. [[B in m in s a l in]] She's been working on it before. Taras Ivanovich Batenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u174	Dear friends, the last time we looked at this bill in the second reading, which went on the second one, I was asking for confirmation of the amendment number 64 of Mr. Marousek, who took 15 days of snorkeling to deliver the bills when the planes were loaded. The Ministry of Finance did not insist on that. The committee would also like to listen and support the position of the Ministry of Finance. That's why I'm here. Now this amendment under number 66, I also ask you to confirm and sign for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u175	Is this number 66? Amendment 66. Dear colleagues, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the committee supported this amendment. I am very much asking the room to support this law in the second reading and in general, including this amendment, because we have thus achieved some consensus. If we begin to destroy the structure of this bill with you now, we will not accept it with you, and thousands of Ukrainian entrepreneurs will have to pay unmotivated, groundless fines. So I ask you to support this amendment and the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u177	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm voting number 66. National MP Batenko insists on confirming it. The committee believes that it is essential to balance the law. So please support and vote. [[13:10:03]] For 298 Decision taken. Edit included. Dear colleagues, let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise duties) (registration No. 2317). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:10:49]] For 316 Decision taken. Thank you. The law was passed in general. Honorary colleagues, pursuant to article 147 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, report on the receipt by the Supreme Council of the conclusions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of article 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine of the bill (registration number 1014) on amendments to article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine (in order to consolidate the powers of the President of Ukraine to establish independent regulatory bodies, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, to appoint posts and discharge from the post of Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation) and the bill (registration number 1017) on amendments to articles 76 and 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine (in order to reduce the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine). According to part nine of article 147 of the Rules, the findings of the Constitutional Court have been handed down to you today. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy to consider the findings of the Constitutional Court at its meeting. Dear colleagues, let's move on. Nestor Ivanovich, you can't. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, today, we now have the Act amending some legislative acts to improve higher education. Then we have two more laws to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the provision of constitutional principles in the field of energy and utilities. Then we have a change to the Ukrainian Customs Code on the provisional order of application of articles 470 and 481, which is related to so-called 'europlums'. Then we have ratifications. And then we have a bill amending the Ukrainian Science and Technology Act. No, no, I'm sorry. 0979: Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich insists on changing the order of the matter. I think we have a lot of important questions today, and we will get to that question tomorrow or the next day. However, I'm proposing to a national MP a vote to consider right now, putting aside the Higher Education Act, to consider the question of temporary commissions of inquiry. Please identify and vote. [[13:13:44]] For-92 Unfortunately, no decision is made. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us move on to, in my view, an important law. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the improvement of higher education (registration No. 2299). Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u178	Good day, fellow Members, today I am presenting in my second reading a bill of 2299, in which we set ambitious goals by law to resolve problems that have not been solved in higher education for years that are a hindrance to ensuring its quality, which contain corruption risks, which are the subject of acute criticism in society and which prevent it from moving forward. The bill is innovative in its contents, and it provides for decisive steps in reforming higher education, without which it is difficult to get out of stagnation. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 310 of the more than 60 Ukrainian national deputies, 104 of them included. The project, prepared for second reading, takes into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the Rectors' Association of Higher Education Institutions, the Ministry of Education and Science and many of the Ukrainian National Deputies. I am confident that the adoption of this bill will create the conditions for strengthening the European principles of higher education, transparency, integrity, autonomy, accountability. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation at its meeting in accordance with article 93 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Improving Higher Education (Registration No. 2299) and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it in a second reading and in general. All those who are deeply in pain at the development of higher education in Ukraine, please support the bill in second reading and in general with technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u179	Let's move on to the right-hand side. Amendment number one, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Don't you insist? Number four, Shepherd's. What's that? 2nd row, not yours. Pippa and Sosun. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Amendment number two, Hero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, the authors of this amendment, Mr. Pippa. Mrs. Pippa, I'm sorry, and Mrs. Sosun, this is a very correct amendment. And I would like to draw attention to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that he does not manipulate when MPs are asking a question about a vote. During the previous vote, our colleague spoke of a very important one, no less important than the Education Act, the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, it's a law that defines the right of opposition, to amend it, to create a TSC, and so on. And you don't have to manipulate your pimps with the idea of halls as to how a bill is going to be voted on. And Mrs. Pippa and Mrs. Sosun and their amendment 2 we support, we don't insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u181	Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u182	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u183	Then, I'm sorry, you're in violation of the Rules. First of all, you now forbid me to express my position. The other one. You're setting this up for confirmation. Is that how you asked the question? Then we put it to a vote, right? Okay, committee position, number two.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u184	Edit No. 2 is counted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u185	What do you want to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u186	Supported and accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u187	Will you support me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u189	The committee supports number two. However, if our colleagues use time like this, I think it would be, in a mild sense, inappropriate. Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 2 of the People's Deputies Pippa and Sowsun. Please support and vote. [[13:18:21]] For 308. Edit included. Sorry, 308. Edit included. Number four, Shepherd's. Don't insist. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Are you going to insist on your work? Thank you. 7th Amendment, Labazuk. Won't he insist on law enforcement? Pippa, it's number 10. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u190	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, good afternoon! I want to make a general statement for the law, and I'm going to insist on the 171st and 242nd. Also, if it's 227th and 236th. I have my key point that this bill, in fact, the Ukrainians have been waiting for a long time, it's trying as hard as possible to get reality into higher education to reality, to get higher education to have, and to be able to have our universities at least 800 places, but much closer. So thank you to all who have made constructive adjustments to this law, and I very much hope that together we will be able to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u191	Do you insist on voting? Don't you insist? Thank you. Are you going to insist on your work in the future? Please turn on the microphone. Pippi, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u192	I said this is going to be a 171 and a 242.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u193	171th and 242nd. Thank you. Bakumov. Are you insisting? Amendment number 15, Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, the bill is indeed designed to regulate and improve the educational activities of higher education institutions, but the term is "the profession in which further regulation is introduced". It's not a very good teaching of terminology, because it's a professional activity, it's a tautology. So this is where philosophers are supposed to work on this terminological definition. And there are no criteria for this additional regulation. So we create a central authority of executive power a mechanism and a tool that can be used to regulate the market for educational services from one or the other circumstances. So please consider this amendment and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u195	The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u196	Colleagues, in this case why so-called regulated professions are introduced, because the high level of social responsibility of individual professional groups requires actually higher requirements for the quality of training of relevant professionals. Therefore, committee editing is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 15 of the people's representative of Bakumov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:21:47]] For-79 Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. 17th, the Sheepling. You don't insist on editing. 28th, Spinov. Don't insist. 29th, Stefanchuk. Minko, 38th. Don't insist. Vasilevska Smagluk, 39th. Don't insist. Columb, 40th? Lukashev. Dubnov, 47th. Frolov doesn't insist on his laundry. The stake does not insist on its work. Batenko, 86th. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u198	Dmitri Alexanderovich, this is a collective amendment. Please give a word from our group, Irina Konstankevitch, as the author, co-author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u199	Constanceevich Irina Miroslavovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u200	The Future Group offered a series of rights that were discussed at the Committee on Science and Education. We've reached compromise decisions, so we're going to support this bill, and we think higher education should really be a priority in society. It should be properly funded and supported at the legislative level and at the level of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please tell me, besides Pippa, who will insist on his work? On 123rd. 123, Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, 123 remedies, this applies to the branches of a number of higher education institutions in Ukraine, which are located in the cities of millionaires. And the judiciary, and we're on the faction, our board of experts, we think it's a discriminatory norm that narrows down opportunities that don't allow for the development of institutions with an authoritative name. And in general, this norm, well, just goes against the existing legislation and goes against the freedom of choice and the autonomy of the institutions. So we insist that this bill be voted on and supported – to preserve the autonomy of the institutions, to preserve the possibility of opening branches in the cities of millionaires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u203	Thank you. Committee position, committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u204	See, the mission of separate structural units is to bring educational services closer to their consumers. There are no such branches in five cities, where there are at least 20 primary universities in these cities where the mission would be carried out. Thus, 32 branches located in these cities are banal commercial. Persecuting commercial goals and selling diplomas. The committee therefore rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u205	I'm betting on the vote number 123, it's not counted by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[13:25:56]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 128, Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, I fully support the words of John Grigorovich Kirilenko that this position is discriminatory in nature. We should not foresee a clear list of cities where the respective branches are banned, and therefore we should consider either 123 revisions, or 128 of mine, in which at least the Cabinet of Ministers can predict the creation of such branches in exceptional cases. If the millionaire cities go, and why isn't Donetska here, why isn't Simferopol here, Ukraine? Why didn't we predict them here in this list? And that's why I'm saying that these are discriminatory norms and you have to take into account the 128. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a vote to 128 people's deputies. Yes, please state the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u208	Edit 128 generally provides for a corrupt norm that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to set a special order of operation. Therefore, this amendment is not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a vote to 128 people's deputies in Bakumov. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:27:38]] For 122 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, number 178, Reverend. Oh, 171st. 171th, Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u210	Yes, I'm putting this right to a vote because I think that the motivational letter that was offered by several universities as an opportunity to regulate the entry ball is generally a negative phenomenon. And although today he can give the ball from zero to one and be published before the UNV session started, but if it's in the body of the law and someone wants to change it someday, it can have great risks and actually corruption risks when university entrances are not those who can learn well, but those to whom someone wrote a letter of motivation. So we think that should not be acceptable. And if we need a reform of the U.N.A., it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u211	Natalia Romanovna, do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u212	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u213	I'm betting on a vote of 171, it wasn't counted by the committee, the People's Deputy Pippa. Please identify and vote. [[13:29:11]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 165 lashes, Bakumov. That's your last one, isn't it? Bakumov, 165th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, 165 rights also contain discrimination. We grant the right to take part in a special period in the competition for the results of the induction exams according to the fields of knowledge of military science. Who knows what war science is? Not all military personnel in the service are qualified in the field of military science. For example, a fighter pilot is not a branch of military science. The person who does the search and search, the military at the State Border Service, is not a branch of military science. And that's why, well, in this norm, we discriminate, and we make a tax order for certain two higher education institutions, and we all put everyone else in unequal conditions. Please consider the bill and open it to all military personnel not only for military and security purposes. and security, and in particular the law enforcement activities carried out by the National Guard, the State Border Service and other military formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the decree of the People's Deputies of Bakumov, 165. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:30:45.]] For-157. The decision is not taken. Amendment number 178, Reverend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, proposal 178 contains clear and practical definitions of periods of temporary occupation. The text adopted in the first reading does not fully cover those who have the right to benefit from the bill. Colleagues, please take another look at the 178 proposal and support its acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 178 of the People's Deputy Shahov, the High Commissioner, Sukhova. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:31:47]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Amendment 209, Labazuk. Is there a Labazuk? Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u218	This amendment refers to a clarification that would make it impossible for a double interpretation of the entry phrase by external independent evaluation. My right is to clarify part of article 44 of the ninth and to establish that in the case of the formation of a TNP at the entrance of a professional higher education facility, the person submits such results without the obligation to recommit a re-counsel, which will make it impossible to abuse and possible schemes to force the formation of the TNP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u219	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 209 national MP Lobazuka. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:32:57]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 210 of the people's representative of Grishuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u220	Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, I will not insist on my work, but if I may say so for a moment. We had a question that concerned some of the deputies and the "Serial of the People" faction, that was the language of foreign students. On the committee, however, we reached a consensus, and with 230 rights, we decided to remove the standard altogether. So now the language of student learning is regulated exclusively by the Education Act and the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. In everything else, I call on the distinguished national MPs to support Law 2299, because this is the first step towards systematic reform of Ukraine's higher education. We plan to make the committee a quality and competitive higher education in Ukraine. So I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u221	Thank you. Next issue is 217. Your Majesty, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u222	Colleagues, it is unacceptable that no State aid is available for children who have been granted the status of a child who has suffered from war. Finally, at the legislative level, it is necessary to start and show society that the State remembers this norm and works for its citizens. Please support the initiative, and the allocation of additional funds cannot be the basis for the request or an argument against the support of the proposal. Dear colleagues, please support children who have suffered from fighting. Please support this amendment and vote. Thank you. Sergey the Great, Luganskina, the Trust Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u223	The position of the committee, 217 of the Commandant's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u224	State targeted support is based on the definition of categories of tips. The extension of the credit categories should be in line with other laws. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u225	I'm betting on the vote number 217, she's rejected by the committee, the ruling of the national MP of the High Commissioner. I'll put it to a vote, please identify and vote. [[13:35:40]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 242. Bobrowski. Princey. 242. Princely, correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u226	Come on, 234 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u227	227? Whose license? Bobrovsky, 227.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u228	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Sergei, head of the committee. In fact, so that you can publicize a position on this course that undermines the entire law. Let me remind you, it refers to the language of teaching for foreign students. So that we do not tear the hall apart and so that it does not undermine, in particular, the Law on speech and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u229	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u230	Yes, Amendment 230 is a compromise, which was counted by the committee. And it predicts that we are even removing this rule and it remains valid in the current Higher Education Act and the language of instruction for foreigners is regulated by education laws and language laws. It's a valid piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u231	Don't you insist on voting? Don't you insist? Princess Mikola Leonidovich. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u232	234.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u233	234 axles.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u234	Yes. I don't insist on voting either. Our faction will uphold the law. I would like to thank the members of the committee for taking our position as well as the colleagues on the protection of the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language, as this is indeed guaranteed by law right now. We'll support him. Thank you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u235	242th, Pippa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u236	236, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u237	Well, you're changing something like that. You said there were others.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u238	236 can do it, right? After 236, I want to thank the committee again. When we removed the second reading, we revised the law and took the Russian language for teaching to foreigners. I want to thank all people publicly. In particular, the University of Magilians for raising the issue publicly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, let's vote. Thank you. I think the best thanks to the committee will be to vote for the law. We have many more questions to consider today. I can't hear you, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u240	Please say that this law now says once again that we want to be, not in the post - Soviet world, but in the global world. And that's what this work does for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u241	Dear colleagues, all right, no one insists on law school anymore? Vote. Let's go to the vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for the vote. Natalia Romanovna, come on, you've already thanked the committee. Let's say you're a green man, if you support the law. Do you mind? Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve higher education (registration No. 2299). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:39:34]] For 321 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's see the factions. "The Servant of the People" – 224, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 22, "The Fatherhood" – 17, "For the Future" – 14, "The Voice – 18, "The Trust" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 9. Thanks again. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of constitutional principles in the field of energy and utilities (registration number 2490-1). The head of the Energy and Housing Committee, Herus Andry Mihajlovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the provision of constitutional principles in the field of energy and utilities (registration number 2490-1), adopted on the first reading on December 5, 2019. As a result of the review of amendments and proposals, the draft legislation was developed to strengthen the regulatory institutional capacity. In particular, the special regulatory status has been defined by law, referring to the powers of the Supreme Council to review the annual report on the activities of the regulator, i.e. we are strengthening the role of Parliament. It is included in the regulatory authority for the development of the methodology and the determination of the technical costs of the gas distribution system operator. Corrections rejected by the committee are largely not in line with the principles of independence of regulators, independence of decision-making and financial independence. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Energy and Housing Services, at its meeting on 13 December 2019, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and, in general, as the law of Ukraine, as proposed by the Committee. Please go to the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u243	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. It's number 11, Grissom. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, this amendment applies directly to the qualifications of the members of the commission. In the new edition, it's three years old, but I insist it's five years old. From the members of the committee. The regulator depends very much. Therefore, I am very grateful to vote in favour of this amendment. By the way, I'm going to insist, Dmitri Alexanderovich, on all my work that will be, and there will be a lot of it. Please see if we can do this, or can we carry it somehow? I'm going to insist on all the revisions and I'm going to ask you to support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u245	Amendment No. 11 of the people's deputy Grib. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:42:53]] For-83 The decision is not taken. No. 12, Buymeister. No. 13, Pasic. Aren't you going to insist on your own? Edit number 14, Kucherenko Aleksei Yuriovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u246	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Dear friends, I ask you to pay attention to this fundamental moment that will happen if you vote in the editor's office. A profile committee that will serve as a basis for our visit to the Constitutional Court. There is no authority at the Supreme Council Committee on Energy to propose to the government three members of a future competitive commission. That is the basis on which today’s commission was declared unconstitutional. We are legally bound by this law. The cynical link is to constitutional norms. What will you do, my friends? And the last. Please note, I am the head of the Ukrainian Housing Owners' Association. We unite millions of consumers. Do we have less right to recommend a future government competition commission than committee members? Make yourself at home, please. Thank you. I insist on my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u247	I'm betting on the vote number 14 of the Kucherenka People's Deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:44:36]] For 111 The decision is not taken. No. 15, Grissom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u248	Dear colleagues, this amendment also supports an amendment that we have not yet voted on, unfortunately, Mr. Kucherenko. But please pay attention, I want to now put two tickets to the vote 15 and 21, if possible, Mr. Razumkov. And the groundwork here is that. The proposed law does not take into account the legal status of committees of Parliament, which the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stressed in its legal positions. Colleagues, vote for these amendments, please support them. Let's not let you and me violate the rules of the Constitutional Court and its decision again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u249	I'm betting on the vote number 15 of the people's representative of the Gryb. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:45:54]] For the 110. The decision is not taken. Edit number 16, Speedboat. Don't insist. 17. Buymaster. Oh, is there a speedboat? I won't. 21st, Grissom.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u250	I don't insist on that. On the 28th, I insist, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u251	22nd, Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u252	Dear colleagues, we are for the maximum independence of the national regulator. But we are convinced, and most of my rights actually apply to the fact that independence without transparency of the national regulator's activities is impossible. So let's stick to transparency. And we don't understand the exclusion from the law of the law of broadcasting a real-time competition commission on the official office of the Ministers of Ukraine. If we take that away, we question the openness of the selection contest and create significant corruption risks. Let's leave the broadcast of the NCRE meeting, the competitive commission, in real time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u253	Do you insist on voting? Edit No. 22 Bat. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[13:47:36]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I offer to welcome our new guests. [[Applause]] I'm still going to work. Number 27, Puppy. 24, rejected. 23, Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u254	Thank you. Dear fellows, I will not insist on any changes that have not been taken into account. I will say one thing that Janez Kopach said was that there was a normal law under the NCRECR, which was buried by the Constitutional Court. That is why this law is not, it does not address the issue of the independence of the NCRECR. We, the faction of European Solidarity, will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u255	Thank you. Are you insisting? Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 24, People's Deputy Buymister. None. Come on, please. Amendment number 25, National Deputy Klimpush-Cincadze. Don't insist. Next, number 27, People's Deputy Kucherenko. Please, Alexi Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u256	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland. Respectful national MPs, who in memory, respected Ukrainians, I respectfully appeal to all of you. Since most people just didn't hear our calls and went in a disgraceful way, I'm paying attention to you, two months ago, a deputy with a name for the letter "H" dragged us into an adventure with Russian electricity imports. We almost fixed that mistake. Now this adventure is much bigger. When we are pleased to go to the Constitutional Court with all the consumers of Ukraine, I call on all of us to support it. And I warn you, it's not like we're going to undermine the oral regulatory policy in Ukraine, that you're questioning the existence of this market with your unsavory, unprofessional dilettarianism. Remember, you will be responsible personally, the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u257	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u258	The committee did not support this amendment, because this amendment has some absurd content that can be blamed for the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers. To that end there are courts, and only in courts can appropriate decisions be sued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u259	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Vote number 27 of the Kucherenka People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:50:53]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 28, National Deputy Grib. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that this law will now allow for the appointment of members of the competition commission, members of the board's non-competition regulator. And this is a corrupt norm. I ask you very much to support this amendment. We can't let that happen. This is a regulator that deals with a lot of market-important issues, not just for the market, but for consumers all over Ukraine. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u261	Thank you. Are you insisting? It's the vote number 28 of the Mishnah People's Deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:51:56]] For-98 The decision is not taken. Next item is number 29 of the Mishnah People's Deputy. Are you insisting? Please. Is there anything we can do to unite you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u262	No, it's not. We're going in all directions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u263	Okay. Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u264	Colleagues, in this law, we propose that decisions be made by the entire college body, not just by the head. So I'd like to take this into account. One cannot make such decisions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u265	Thank you. Vote number 29 of the Mishnah People's Deputy. The committee turned her down. Please identify and vote. [[13:52:48]] For-95 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 30 people's deputies, Greeb. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next line is number 31 of the Batenka People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u266	Mr. Andrey, well, we see in the situation that the bill of appointment of new members of the regulator is being implemented in the event of an early termination of members for at least two years. And what if the old members of the regulator who stop on time? In fact, less than two years, they work for six months and a year and a half. So there's no upper deck, there's no deadline for appointment of regulators, there's no ceiling, there's a deadline for appointment of regulators, there's a ceiling to be set. Otherwise, if practical implementation occurs when a member of the regulator is temporarily assigned to work after the deadline for appointment of the other members of the controller. I think it's going to be a possible abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u267	Committee position, brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u268	The point is that if a member of the regulator works a smaller period of time, all the restrictions will extend to him, the situation will be that no one will want to be or want to work under such conditions. So in this case, when we already have a full - time job for a long period of time, it was suggested that all the relevant restrictions be in place. That's why the committee didn't take this into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u269	Thank you, thank you. Are you insisting, Taras? Vote number 31 of Batenka’s national deputy. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:54:30]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 32 of the Kucherenka People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u270	Thank you. Alexy Kucherenko, Fatherland, Houseowners' Association. There's no crime that a capitalist won't go to for profit of 200 percent is a classic. There is no constitutional norm that does not want to break monocoalysm in order to fully control Ukraine's energy. This is a case of this bill. Dear friends, in the last three months of our committee, where I'm happy to be the first deputy, he's turned into a scandalous body with one scandal following another. You now have the right to form three out of five members of a future competitive committee. And the government will be obliged to assign them, and there is no alternative. What are you doing? And even this amendment, which predicts that members of the future commission should be only on the basis of the results of the competition, you and it don't support what you're doing to reverse the effort to create a transparent one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u271	Thank you. Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u272	The position of the committee is that if there is a discharge and there is no quorum on the committee, we have already had such a situation, unfortunately, in practice, and this rule has appeared a few years ago, responding to what has occurred in practice, we need to resolve the situation immediately. So in this case, the competition procedure is long, it's for the usual case, and this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u273	Thank you. Dear colleagues, vote number 32 of the Kucherenka People's Deputies. The committee's proposing a rejection. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:25]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Now, just a minute. We have children from the OOS on the balcony. Let us welcome our distinguished colleagues. Hello! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, here comes the 33rd, National Deputy Greeb.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u274	30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u275	And I asked you, you didn't respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u276	You didn't see it. 30th, I insist, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u277	We can't go back to these lines. I can give you 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u278	No, let's do 30 now and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u279	No, let's go the 30 we passed, I asked, look at the transcript, we won't argue. No, so the next line is number 34, National Deputy Grib. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u280	I'm also asking you to put 30 votes. Why and exactly what it's about. The fact that a board member can't be more than two terms. Because we're talking about a very responsible body right now. And here's a person, one term is seven years. If we're talking about 7, I think two lines is pretty normal. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u281	It's the vote number 30 of the Mishnah People's Deputy. Please identify and vote. [[13:57:58]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, after 33, will you be performing or are you exhausted? 33rd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u282	Thirty-three. I propose that it be edited as follows: "In the event of the early release of a member of the Regulator from his post, new assignments are carried out as a result of the competition." So we don't have any assignments outside the competition. Colleagues, please support. Please note that today we are talking about potential corruption risks. You don't have to do anything outside the contest. Please support 33 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u283	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 33 of the people's representative of the Greeb to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[13:58:59]] For 112 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 34 of the people's department of Grib.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u284	The standard may have an extended interpretation by an authority authorized to terminate the authorisation of a member of the regulator because it does not determine what the infringement is and what the consequences are. So we can free a member of the regulator here for whatever. Can you imagine, just because a person didn't pay for utilities, that's also a violation, and for that, he could be released? I am asking you very much to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-18-m0.u285	Amendment number 34 of the people's department of Grib. The committee is not supported. Please identify and vote. [[14:00:10]] For a-117. The decision is not taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we're about to have guests. And please release the hall a little bit faster so that we can talk to the kids.
