ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, we are about to begin registration. Are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:06:30.]] There are 294 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let's go back to the day-to-day issue of registration number 1210, 1210-1. Dear colleagues, we have the right to speak from the Voice faction, Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak. And after that, "Serial of the People." Alexander Sergiyovich Korniyenko after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, with the opportunity, I will remind you what this bill is about. This is probably the largest bill ever considered by this room, and it brings together many questions. Unfortunately, some of these issues were caused by large dissonance in business associations, in entrepreneurs, in ordinary people. There are also things that are positive. This bill is actually made up of three parts. Part one is administration. The part that should give more revenue to the budget, but also more control. We've had more than two dozen meetings on each section of the administration. There have been a lot of complaints about the increase in the time limits for checks, the increase in fines, the availability of appeals boards, and so forth. I very much hope that if this bill is supported in the first reading, the second reading will take into account the amendments that the committee head has made, and this bill in this section will be better. The second part involves raising bets — ores, bets on gas, and other bets. We can take this differently, we can talk about that we have to protect our nadra, we can talk about that we have to give the best possible conditions for business, this is a decision that the coalition makes. The only thing we ask is that the decision in this section is balanced and does not result in a reduction in actual revenue to the budget due to tax losses, investments and just closing down businesses. And the last part is the most positive and the one that actually causes the most approval among our faction, this part has a very complicated name like BEPS. And if it's easy, it's an offshore battle. This chapter is great. You and I have voted several times on the bill that reinforces it. And now this is the opportunity that the Supreme Council gives us to fight offshors. There are also many complaints to this chapter, including to so - called controlled foreign companies. Again, we very much hope that if this bill is adopted as a basis, the comments made by the committee head, along with the other committee members, will be further elaborated on the second reading, and this bill will become better. Again, this is the largest bill ever considered by this Supreme Council. And in the Tax Code, any dot, any coma can make a huge mistake. Therefore, we strongly insist that this bill be finalized according to the committee’s recommendations for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u3	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Rules up to six minutes. Wait. There was a Cornienko, he's not here right now. Smogluk. Turn on the microphone, please. Ever since "Serve of the People." Vasilevska-Smagluk, please turn on the microphone from the political party "Slut of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u4	Vasilevska Smagluk, 96th constituency. 1210 is a 1209 extension, and it involves a lot of changes. But the main thing is to fight low-tax jurisdiction. We want more taxes to be paid in the Ukrainian budget, so we don't get money out of Ukrainian companies in Cyprus and the Virgin Islands. And this is also the big AntiBEPS plan, which is very much in store for our international partners, which is needed to make business more transparent. Please accept this bill in the first reading and add it to the second reading to make it perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u5	Thank you. Please sign up for the performances by the National Deputies. Rules up to six minutes. Zbrodsky Mikhailo Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. Eugene Nina Petrovna. It's a Southern.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u7	Eugene Nina Petrovna. Turn on the microphone of Yuzanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, it is possible to say in a little more detail what is wrong with this bill. Because all the factions have come under strong criticism, because all the sections of this bill, if you can imagine it can be divided into such subgroups and some of them are useful, that's a percentage of 5 of the entire draft law that we're considering in full procedure. I'm trying to prove to you that such changes in the administration system are not possible at all. And once again, there's no need for dissertation here. Testing entrepreneurs is already the way. And the country should not go back to that. Because the law provides for the introduction of an inexhaustible list of circumstances that gives officials of the control body the right to decide for themselves to exempt tax payers from liability or to reduce it by 50 percent of the fine. What corruptive standards we set for the new law! Grant the supervisory authorities the right to their own discretion to decide whether to apply or not to taxpayers certain rules laid down in Ukraine’s international treaties or to interpret them freely. Apply financial sanctions and fines to taxpayers for violating tax legislation irrespective of their guilt. In fact, this bill introduces the presumption that the taxpayer is guilty. Increase the time limits for tax checks. Give the tax authority the opportunity to make quarterly changes to the annual schedule of scheduled checks and not in 10 days, but in a few days to prove that the taxpayer will have a check. Increase the amount of tax fines 2-4 times, including for the first time. On the contrary, we introduced such standards in order to raise tax culture, not to kill it. Grant the tax authorities the right to apply several fines for the same tax offence as the taxpayer. Please tell me as much as you can. Here we were told by the authors of this bill that we should go to the responsibility of the controlling body. Yes, from the personal responsibility that is now in the current legislation to the responsibility of the control body as a whole, that is to collective irresponsibility. It seems to me that in the tax administration section you have absolutely no right now to introduce anything new. All the standards that work now are effective, pro-European and give time to acclimate to the new State Tax Service in order to make it truly serviceable. By introducing new initiatives, you are only.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u9	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u10	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, European Solidarity, north of Restoration. Dear friends, here we are looking at a very important document -- it's actually kind of an economic constitution for entrepreneurs, for the whole business that works in Ukraine. And what business says when they see this document. Look at the statement made by the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce and Industry. They're in shock. They're shocked, they say, never accept what you're doing, you're killing your country's economy. This is the kind of decision that is made in the area, and we have the results. And what are the economic results of our crazy technocrat government? While they're driving one by one on their own, we have a month in October minus 5 percent of industrial production in relation to September. Minus 5 percent in one month. Is it the predecessors ’ fault? Is that what you're doing? Look at the rate of ease of payment of taxes, Ukraine, which has risen to this rating for the first time in this year, dropped 11 points. It's the first time I've fallen. Why? Because big businesses are closing down their business because business is running away because business can't understand what you're doing in this sector, nobody understands the rules you're introducing. Look what you are, what corruption you're conducting through the Supreme Council. The tobacco industry is halting. Please carry out your work, businesses all over Ukraine have stopped. Tens of millions of dollars a day is a waste. People lose jobs, you don't give a shit. What are you up to now? Repealing the inspectors' personal responsibility is a great decision. The possibility of continuing the period of tax checks almost twice is a class decision. Well, I can go on for a long time. So your committee manager comes out, and he says we're going to clear it up for the second reading. If you know all this and what's the horror, why are you putting him on the Supreme Council now? So stop, write a normal law, accept it with business associations and go to the Supreme Council, not be ashamed of the whole world, because, really, what you're doing today is a disgrace to the whole world. Such laws cannot be enacted; such laws kill Ukraine. Because of these laws, people are leaving Ukraine because they have no future here, they have no place to work; Ukrainian energy has no place to work, because you've opened up a market for Russian electricity; Ukrainian specialists have no place to work, because you're adopting laws that destroy, just destroy business and destroy the future of our state. So, dear friends, just a red button, don't vote for it, stop it today. Because tomorrow the result will be that humans will have nothing to eat. It's Mikola Janovich Potteruk who could only write that. Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u11	It's a good word. The final word is given to the author of the law, Mr. Getmantsev Danil Aleksandrovitch. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, literally a few words in reply. Friends, criticize our draft laws, which we develop and pass as much as we can. But before that, please read these bills. What kind of dissertation? What are you talking about? What are some of the crazy consequences you're talking about? You have not even read the texts that you are criticizing today. We propose the introduction of a system of responsibility that exists in all our neighbours in Europe where a payer can be held accountable only if he is guilty of an offence. It's not the Middle Ages, it's the kind of owl we now have in tax relations. Please read and then criticize. I would also like to point out that the drafter of Bill 1210-1, National MP Kovalov, has submitted a letter of appeal to his bill, but this cannot be done without the decision of the Supreme Council. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put this matter to the vote. And I'm asking you not to support taking him out of the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u13	Okay. Danilo Alexandrovich, if I understand correctly, the same situation as Bill 1209-1. There was a letter from the author. The removal of the issue from the agenda that has been placed in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is decided solely by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm voting on the motion to call off Bill 1210-1 by National MP Kovalov. Please identify and vote. Please identify and vote. [[16:21:11]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we have completed and we have exhausted the time to discuss these bills. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Tax Administration, the Elimination of Technical and Logical Differences in Tax Laws (Registration No. 1210-1). Ready to vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:22:13]] For 225 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to refer to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] How about the 10th? Dear colleagues, I bet. Prepare to vote. Dear colleagues, Bill 1210-1 was not supported. I'm betting on a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. 1210. No, 1210, 1210-1 are two bills, honourable colleagues. What are you saying? Please know the Rules better than I do. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis. Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? So I'm sounding it now. Dear colleagues, why create problems when they're not there yet? You listen to the offer, we'll move on. I'll put it to a vote. We didn't adopt Bill 1210-1. Yeah? I will now put to the vote the issue of adoption on the basis of Bill 1210. Can I do that? Thank you. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'll bet you a vote. No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Tax Code for Ukraine to improve tax administration, to eliminate technical and logical differences in tax legislation (registration No. 1210). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:24:52]] For 232 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Thank you. Once again, I emphasize that the first reading of the bill was the registration number 1210. Please show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 214, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 10. Thank you. It's a motive. You'll be able to speak now. Your faction is taking a break. The motive is Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u14	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, when we discussed the bill, we discussed 1210-1, it's different than 1210. If we were talking about 1210, there would be twice as many comments as there are. Now, when you discussed the board, you were shining 1210-1. We made a negative decision. And then you took out 1210 without talking about it. These are different bills. It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u15	Dear Nina Petrovna, I'll tell you again. Raise it, please. Do you have a day order on your hands right now? Raise it, please. What's it say? Two bills. I'll let you know how they're treated by a full discussion procedure. The authors are given 10 minutes each. Come on, I'll show you the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Both bills, always standing. If you want to have a discussion, we can do it during the break. But two bills, three bills, five bills, or ten, are under consideration. Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u16	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! We are very often surprised to see why there is such a high level of distrust in Parliament. I'll explain, because we started to consider this bill a few months ago, just from this version, which was the worst, even the authors admitted it. We held 50 different meetings, we promised business, we, all the committee members, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, we all promised we'd change. We've got a new one. We promised, we'd do better, we promised. And they improved, they went back to the worst version. I don't believe us all anymore, I don't believe it anymore. How can we now go to the people and explain to them that all the suggestions they made said that they would continue to be counted, that you would not break through your knee again! Shame on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u17	Olga Valentinovna, please tell me if the procedure has been violated. We're supposed to put one in, and then the second bill? Did you support the first bill? No, it's not. Please, the Gethmans, Danilo Alexanderovich, a minute of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, first of all, I thank you for supporting this very difficult bill, and I am convinced that it is going to become a compromise for the second reading. Because compromise is the main task facing us today in terms of public finances. To those who are not satisfied with the Council's decision, I want to point out that structurally 1210 is no different from 1210-1. On the first reading, you and I accept the structure of a bill that we cannot deviate from. So there are no violations, no catastrophes, no tragedies. Thank you for your support and let's work on the bill for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u19	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. I would like to address all the national MPs, regardless of the political powers they represent. Dear colleagues, we have. I'm sorry, can I have a little quieter? Thank you. I'm addressing everyone, I'm asking you to join the drafting of this bill and really make it quality, between first and second reading. This is the ability of the people's deputies, and we haven't adopted the bill in general right now. Unfortunately, really, the hall didn't support 1210-1, and you're really right to say that it would be better to support it. But we come out of the decision made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I hope that both the chairman of the committee and the committee and the national deputies working on other committees will join in making this bill better. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleagues. A statement has been made. It's a replacement for the performance. A statement came from two factions, from European Solidarity and Fatherland. Do I get it right? From three factions? Oh, and the Voice, I see. Replace the break for the performance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, please step away from the aisles, please. Allow your colleagues to move freely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u21	Dear Ukrainians! The challenges facing Ukraine before the Normandy meeting may put Ukraine’s very statehood at risk. That's why we declare no: surrender! And to prevent Putin's script from being implemented in Ukraine, the political parties "European Solidarity", "Voice" and the All-Ukrainian union "Fatherhood" adopted a joint statement. Application for non-compliance with Ukraine’s national interests. Aware of the risks to the security and national interests of Ukraine, the realisation of the European and Euro-Atlantic choices of the Ukrainian people arising from the ongoing aggression of the Russian Federation, we state the need for compliance during the negotiations in the "normal" format of the fundamental positions (red lines) that will be violated by Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u22	So no compromises about the unitary state and no federalization. No compromises on European and Euro-Atlantic courses. No political action, such as the election in the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas, to the fulfilment of security conditions, of depopulation. In particular, the exodus of Russian troops, the disarmament of illegal armed formations, the establishment of control over the state border. No compromise on the bribery and return of Crimea to Ukraine. No interruption of international trials against Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u23	The political forces demand that the principle be ensured – first, security, including a comprehensive ceasefire, the withdrawal of Russian troops and weapons from Ukraine, the return of Ukraine's control over the Ukrainian-Russian border. In this regard, we coordinate our actions to ensure the integrity of these red lines and to ensure that our nation’s national interests are respected, and we urge all State parties and public organizations to join in a joint fight to protect Ukraine. The statement was signed by the leaders of the political parties: "Fatherhood" – Julia Timoshenko, "European Solidarity" – Peter Poroshenko and "Golos" – Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u24	Glory to Ukraine! No, it's surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u25	Thank you, Your Honor. Let us now consider the next question of the order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to comply with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 80 of the Constitution on the Inviolability of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Two bills will be considered: 2237 and an alternative bill 2237-1. As provided by the Rules. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:34:41]] For 222 Decision taken. The report is given by Yanchenko Galini, a national deputy of Ukraine, to Igorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u26	Comrades, good day to you all! Good afternoon, Your Honor! In September, you and I decided to change the Constitution and to cancel the parliamentary immunity. This initiative brought together the Hall, with 373 deputies voting for it. I want to remind you of the names of these brave men. These were 252 national deputies from the "Serviary of the People" faction, 24 deputies from the "European Solidarity" faction, 23 deputies from the "Batakščina" faction, 19 colleagues from the "Golos" faction and 33 non-fractional national MPs. By this decision, we have removed the concept of "deputy impunity" from the Ukrainian Constitution. That's right, I wasn't wrong, because in the way that the MP's immunity existed, it was actually synonymous with the word "freedom." But in order to finally make this process irreversible and to enter Ukraine's history as a parliament that finally annulled parliamentary integrity, we still have to take the last step and harmonize Ukrainian legislation with those changes to the Constitution that we adopted at the beginning of our cadence. That's why Bill 2237 is being proposed. Briefly about its contents. He clears mention of parliamentary immunity from three laws in Ukraine. That is, we take chapter 35 completely out of the Rules, which is no longer necessary, taking into account the changes to the Constitution that we have adopted. Secondly, we are amending the Criminal Procedure Code. These changes have been discussed in sufficient detail at the Law Enforcement Committee for a month and a half. We're in the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u27	Thank you, Galina. How much more time do you need? No, 10 seconds. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u28	We're also making changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. And the third law where changes are made is the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Here I want to point out what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u29	Thank you. With regard to the alternative bill, 1237-1 is reported by the Ukrainian National MP. I'm sorry, 2237-1. Reporting by Ukrainian national deputy Ustinov Alexander Yuriyovn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, we have all promised our electorate to remove the MP's in touch and that the national MPs will be aligned with all the Ukrainians in their capabilities. Because, unfortunately, national deputies are now above all, and there are special conditions for their arrest, detention or even listening. Unfortunately, that bill that gave the majority, I'm now addressing you first, it doesn't match the promises you made to your voters. It's a lie, it's not a removal of the MP's immunity, it's a restriction on the law enforcement authorities to investigate us, the national MPs. Now, under the Ukrainian law, any law enforcement agency can investigate a national MP. And we have examples of the same former Pashinski deputy who was investigated by the police when he shot a man. Now, after that bill you're proposing, you need the Attorney General's permission to even bring information to the GDR, which is to open criminal conduct. You will all be protected more than any Ukrainian. Because only the Attorney General can sign your suspicions. Why should we lie to the electorate and impose another restriction on the Attorney General who can bring this information to the GDR and open criminal conduct? This is a lie to our electorate, not a removal of the MP's immunity. That's why I urge you to support our alternative bill, which actually removes the parliamentary immunity that allows you to apprehend an MP at the crime scene if this MP committed a murder if it's rape. According to the bill you have proposed, it will not be possible to do so. So let us not lie to our electorate and honestly take away the parliamentary immunity rather than restrict the law enforcement authorities in whom they can investigate. If we had this law a year ago, we wouldn't have 10 criminal conducts on national MPs right now, suspects them and international searches, because please excuse me, Attorney General Lucenko would never have allowed us to investigate his own colleagues in parliament. That's why I urge you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u31	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u32	We're talking about the law, not the man. Tomorrow, the Attorney General, who you're all hiding behind, will change, and we'll have a very bad law that will lead to very bad consequences. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u33	Thank you, Alexander Yuriovn. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered two draft laws in the first reading: the basic 2237 and the alternative 2237-1. During the consideration of the bills, the committee members made a number of proposals for bills that needed to be discussed and taken into account in preparing for the second reading. In particular, it is possible to bring to the GDR information that indicates that a national deputy of Ukraine has committed a criminal offence, not only by the Attorney General, but also by the heads of law enforcement bodies such as the SAP and the heads of the NAB or the DBR. Next. The possibility of detaining a national MP during or immediately after committing a serious or particularly serious violent crime. Conciliation by the Attorney-General about the detention permit, the selection of a precautionary measure in the form of a security guard, a search, and so forth. The extension of the MP, i.e. when national MPs will not be held legally responsible not only for voting or expressing themselves in Parliament, but also for the exercise of parliamentary powers in general. In view of the above-mentioned committee, he approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts with a view to bringing Ukraine into compliance with the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 80 of the Constitution on the Inviolability of Ukrainian People's Deputies (Registration No. 2237) to take the first reading as a basis. The alternative bill 2237-1 is proposed to be rejected. On my behalf, I would like to say that in the shortest term, by the next plenary week, the Committee will be fruitful in its second reading and will propose an amended bill to the Supreme Council. Thank you. And please support the hall in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u35	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Please sign up: two for, two for factions. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u36	I give the word to the Prince's Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u37	Once again, Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, as a colleague put it, this law was in force a year ago, our colleague Sophia Fedin would have been in prison by now. As a result, the law proposes to open criminal cases against MPs by decision of the Henprocuror. We're against that, too. Because the fact that we have the Henprocurorate is traditionally handmade, we know very well and we know from Trump and President Zelensky's conversations. After the parliamentary immunity has been lifted, the main issue is the setting up of safeguards against political persecution. Obviously, we justify being held accountable for criminal offenses. But there is political persecution in Ukraine, and we can see that in the case of the Fedinians. There's got to be a filter to check that there's a political motive in the pursuit of a deputy. In view of the fact that the courts are not reformed, we believe that in all matters concerning MPs, the presence of a political segment should be checked by either the Supreme Court or the Supreme Anti-Corruption Court. The law should provide for the existence of minimum suspicions that the matter is of a political nature if they have not been forcefully refuted before a court of law, in which case a deputy cannot be detained. That's the way the entire world justice works, that's how Interpol works, which prohibits the detention from political persecution, and you've seen Mazura from Poland released on that very basis. The same applies to the wiretap. It cannot be used for political persecution. Without this, the bill is unbalanced, opening up opportunities for political persecution. And if someone's vote, first of all, doesn't appeal to the President's Office, you've had cases like this, then these deputies will be arrested by authoritarian regimes. Spain, Germany, Switzerland uses the Supreme Court for this procedure. We suggest that we do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u39	Germano Vasil Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u40	May I give the floor to the People's Deputy of Semin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u41	Seminian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u42	The honourable speaker and the honourable Head, what I say now, it will not apply to me personally, it will apply to the legality of our state at all. You know, I just happened to meet the criminal authority of Moldovan, the nickname "Moldovan," and the name of Moldovan, who was. Accused of my deliberate murder, attacking me. That's how this guy walks around with his balls open. And I want to officially address the Attorney General, what is this person doing here right now? I literally met him, and the journalists took all these things down here. So, I, at the same time, would like to ask the Attorney General of Ukraine to appear before us, to report on the progress of criminal conduct investigations, resonant criminal conduct, including my criminal conduct in connection with the murder of a manslaughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u43	Thank you. Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich. Turn on the microphone, Venislavski Feder Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u44	Honorable Chairman, Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies! The bill, which is now being proposed to you for adoption as a basis in the first reading, refers to bringing some provisions under the Criminal Procedure Code into force in accordance with today's Constitution and to the drafting of the Constitution, which has been effective since 1 January 2020, all the laws on the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on the Criminal Procedural Code. I would like to point out that, to date, the current drafting of the Criminal Procedural Code, which allows not only for the detention, arrest or invocation of the responsibility of the national deputy, but also for the search, personal examination and so on, it is no longer in conformity with the current Constitution of Ukraine, is significantly widening the limits of even existing parliamentary immunity. So this bill, which is now being proposed, is called upon to remove the systemic problems that exist today, and to bring into line with the Constitution that we have voted for before the constitutional majority, in accordance with those, more faithfully, in accordance with this Constitution of those provisions, the three laws that are referred to in this bill. With regard to the comments that only the Attorney General can grant permission to listen to, allow for detention or arrest, this is a perfectly normal international practice. Because the national deputy is not to be unduly involved in his parliamentary activities, even when it comes to criminal acts. Thus, there is no violation of the common sense of international standards. And I call upon all the Ukrainian national MPs to support this bill as a basis for the first reading, because it is aimed at the realization of those pre-election promises that have been made by virtually all the political forces present in this room today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Shahov Sergey Volodymyrovich is motivated. Then we go to the vote. Wait. Are there any other speakers? No, factions came from the factions. Chess only, for reasons? Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich, please turn on the microphone. Then we vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u46	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, how many people can you fool around with your head? The summer was chosen, it was warm. It's cold today. People are thinking about tariffs today, and they're hearing about inviolability again. But it takes a long time to get touchy, to get everyone fully involved in criminal cases that were committed three years ago, five years ago, and to blow up the whole thing. Let them be normal surgeons today in power structures and clean up this shit, the wound will live, people will see. Take off the touch and immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine with a view to bringing Ukraine into conformity with the Act on Amendments to Article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the Inviolability of National Deputies of Ukraine. Please prepare for the vote. Registration number 2237. Ready to vote? We're voting for bill number 2237. Please support and vote. [[16:51:15]] For 253 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, according to part. Show the factions, please. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading of Bill No. 2237. Please support and vote. [[16:51:58]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Means of Transport. Bill registration numbers 2078 and alternative 2079-1. I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:52:42]] For 245 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Batenka Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, dear friends! Your opinion is proposed for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Ukrainian Customs and First State Registration of Vehicles (Registration No. 2078). It suggests that the requirements of the Euro environmental standards will be applied when transport vehicles are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, exclusively for new means of transport. This will enable the market to be filled with used cars, which, according to their performance characteristics, greatly outweigh the production of a Soviet car, which has exhausted its resource at least three times and does not meet any Euro standards, but is still being used in Ukraine. Colleagues, I point out that many people in Ukraine today have no money for a new car, and no law will force you to buy it, and the car is actually one of the breadwinners in the family. And we're also proposing to postpone the Euro-6 standard until 2025, and we've already pushed these bills as long as possible, delaying their constant consideration. Because, as you know, from January 1, if you don't, from January 1, 2020, for all the new cars and trucks, buses will be introduced for the first Euro-6 registration, which will lead to their arrival and significantly reduce the flow of new and used cars. The expected result of the proposed bill 2078 will be the formation of a civilised car market in Ukraine, the filling of the park with more modern means of transport, the increase in revenue from customs payments to the budget. The removal of restrictions will also allow for a quality upgrade of the utility park and other services that are still using Soviet technology. Colleagues, I'm paying attention to the following. Project 2078 is a proven practice of legislation over the years, 2078-1 is an alternative – the extension of Euro-6 without lifting restrictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u49	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u50	Without removing any restrictions on the use of a car that would be particularly advantageous to importers of Chinese, Indian, and Russian cars. So the adoption of an alternative bill is actually on the hand of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u51	Let me finish. Taras Ivanovich, time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u52	Please support the update of the Ukrainian author and bill 2078. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u53	Thank you. For an alternative bill, 2078-1 is reported by the Ukrainian National MP Zablotsky Marjan Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to waste much time. The bill, literally, on one sentence, literally, physically. He's just saying that we're deferring the introduction of Euro-6 for a few more years. It's focused on two things. First, save the rest of the highway we have. If 400,000 cars were manufactured in Ukraine in 2008, they have fallen a hundred times, 4 thousand are left, and several factories have been preserved. If a mandatory Euro-6 standard is introduced, it also expands to production. That means that those miserable 4,000 cars that we're producing right now can be forgotten about any chance of rebuilding these canned factories. The other one. As the norm extends to import, there will also be a journey of new cars. The committee proposed to support the bill as a whole. He's going to at least save those remaining jobs and not make people feel better about new cars. As for the further settlement of the question of Europlaghers, really, I'm going to say that we're going to have to go back to the future and to the excise issue on the car, because people really wanted to have a more accessible car, and I think they're entitled to that. It's just a law that needs to be adopted on a basis and in general to eliminate this small problem. It needs to be removed by the end of the year, so hurry with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u55	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on financial, tax, and customs policy, Nikolayenek Andrija Ivanovich. I take it the head of the subcommittee is. Where's Nikolainka? Dear colleagues, if we proceed with the procedure now to discuss, then we give the floor to the head of the subcommittee, will it be normal? Do you mind? Please register by faction: two for, two for. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Danil Alexandrovich Getmantsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u57	Getmants Danilo Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a very positive, very simple bill supported by the committee unanimously. The language goes, as the reporters have already pointed out, about delaying the introduction of Euro-6 standards, which entails the loss of cars for our consumers. And we're convinced that, in fact, today we're not ready to apply this standard. We don't have any clear deadlines for European cooperation or other international organisations to implement Euro-6, so we can do that for our voters, for our people. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u59	Thank you. Wasilenko Lesia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u60	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u61	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, if we don't want to protect our environment from all kinds of car dumps, it's probably a bill where we need to compromise the desire of our citizens to get cheaper, more affordable cars and cars, and between protecting our environment. And that's why we think that the bill that was supported by the profile committee is enough to find this compromise, and we'll support it both on the basis and in general if there's a desire for a hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u63	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovni Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u65	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, in fact, the two bills are very different with regard to the first part. I will not talk now about how difficult it is to discuss the problem in society reported by my colleague Batenko. But I would like to highlight the letter to the Committee of the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine signed by Crixus and a large number of experts who agreed to this letter. I'd like to draw your attention to you, the distinguished faction of the "Serial of the People," in order for you to make some of the laws that you're about to impose in the rest of the world, in accordance with the opinion of the experts in the executive power of your representatives. They wrote here clearly in a letter that "draft 2778 contravenes the Ukrainian Law on the Basic Principles of Ukrainian State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030," according to which one of the main causes of Ukraine's environmental problems is the subordination of environmental priorities to economic relevance. Today, cars cause up to 95 percent of the emissions of pollutants in places of mass accumulation, including diesel vehicles with dangerous sources of particulate emissions with adsorbed carcinogens, according to the European Environment Agency, the annual death rate of people in the European Union from air pollution is 7 times higher than the death rate of road traffic accidents" and so on. So I think we really need to make a decision right now just 2078-1, apply the environmental standard, we really don't have any specific responsibilities. But it seems to me that, by this time, cars with internal combustion engines will be going into the past, and maybe not until the 25th year will we also be adopting a number of changes and a series of legislation to at least take a decent place right now to collect electric cars in Ukraine and maybe special programs for Ukrainians that we can pull.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u67	Give me 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u68	And by the way, I want to go to everyone who is now not adopting the Law on Assemblying in Ukraine, we're losing those producers that are now very large.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u69	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Kaltsev Vladimir Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u70	Please pass it on to Oleg Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u71	Oleg Anatolyevich. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're going to support the extension of the Euro-6 standard, but the previous discussion, which was actually about lifting any environmental restrictions on cars, for me, as a person who is constantly following discussions in European countries, in the leading Western countries, the feeling that we've stopped in some parallel reality. Driving a car is not compulsory, more so, in all major countries, everything is done to make fuel more artificially expensive, to make parking more difficult, to make people, in principle, less drive, and to make it easier for us and our children to breathe, so that our generation is the last that we have experienced in Ukraine. And the Supreme Council should not go on about those types of society that think neither of themselves nor of their children. We have to be a guide. If we're adopting non-popular things here, such as increasing taxes, such as liberalizing those laws, then we're going to make concessions on environmental issues that apply to each of us, no matter what kind of assets we have, what kind of opportunities we have, if anyone. Where we live, it's just idiotism and nonsense. And when I heard the argument of one of our colleagues that poor people don't seem to be able to bring the old movement and finally turn Ukraine into a garbage can of machines that pollute the air, I just get my hair off. We are in a country where we want to live, or perhaps your children live abroad, and you don’t care what conditions they live in! Such approaches do not even go through in Africa today. So if this is a very important philosophical moment right now. The question is that we've already deferred from the President's supply a tax period to clear up previously imported euros. We're going after people who haven't managed to make money on a normal car, driving traffic from abroad. This is unacceptable, the extension of the euro-6 is the only possible concession, because it's really important for our producers here. But playing artificially with such important questions as human health is impossible, since today people do not think that spending less on cars will cost them tens of times more on their health tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have the opportunity to finally listen to the head of the committee's subcommittee on finance, tax and customs policy, Nikolainek Andrija Ivanovich. No, not from the faction, from the committee. And then Belkova is motivated, and then we go to the vote. Please be prepared. Now it's Nikolainka, after that it's Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u74	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm sorry I'm late with the report. So today we're looking at two bills, and both of them have the right to life, and we've considered them quite deeply on our committee. And with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and of the other Transport Committee, the infrastructure itself has been defined as a bill for the co-authorship of five deputies from the People's Party and my co-authorship 2078-1 to be accepted as the lead. Moreover, it is recommended that since the bill consists of a single line, it should be replaced by a digit, accepted as a basis and as a whole. The logic has been explained repeatedly, and I will not repeat it. The main thing is that we need to make Ukrainians richer in general so that they can buy new cars. These cars should also be produced in Ukraine. That would be the perfect thing to do. Industry has to work, and they have to have that kind of financial capacity. So from one block, they don't have to make their lives more difficult, make new cars even more expensive when we realize that we allow and re-extend used cars under "eurobroads." So I propose to support and offer, and I appeal for support as a whole. Because by January 1, we won't be able to look at it physically in the second reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u75	Thank you, Andrey Ivanovich. Olga Valentinovna Belkova, with the motive of a minute. Then we'll move on. No, Coltunovich, they were speaking from "The Opposition Platform for Life." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. It's very good that this bill is being considered after we've voted 1210. Let me explain why. Because the Euro-6 theme is the same topic as when Ukraine wants to run ahead, to adopt certain standards that poor, unhappy, unfaithful Ukraine can't always afford. And that's why the faction of the opposition makes a proposal for deferral. There's no objection on the committee. And in college, we decide to pass this bill. I predict he'll get enough votes. That's the way it's supposed to be in all of the key economic bills. We may have a philosophy of differences in other issues, but not in the economy. Unfortunately, Ukraine cannot afford Euro-6 today. It was said that the price of parking and cars should be increased. It's a brilliant idea. I just don't know how people would agree to that if they stormed us with their rally that demanded a pay raise. So this is an example of the normal constructive work of opposition, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u77	Give me 10. "For the future," no one was speaking, was it? Taras Ivanovich Batenko, a minute of motivation. And, dear fellows, let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u78	Dear friends, I thank you for the discussion that struck the hall with these two bills. You know, I get the feeling that a lot of my colleagues and I live in different worlds, in different dimensions. My children are definitely not studying abroad, but believe me, many millions of citizens cannot afford not to have a new car, but a used car. Once again, I insist that the car is the breadwinner of the family. If only we hadn't thought of a category. We want to live in Europe, but show me the European standards in Ukraine that we have recently reached. So obviously I understand that we are. Thank God we're voting for an alternative bill 2078-1. But I'm more than confident that it will take a couple of months, and we'll have to continue to compromise our citizens, who have taken care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on more than one occasion, demanding the cost of a car. When the car is cheap, people will drive quality goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u79	Thank you, Taras Ivanovich. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal for acceptance as a basis. I would like to stress that the committee has offered to take this as a basis and in general, so then, I hope, there will be a second vote right away. But I am now voting on the proposal to adopt a bill on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine and registration of means of transport (registration number 2078-1). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:10:59]] For-360 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Now I'm going to make a proposal in general. Is there a denial? None. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Vehicles (Registration No. 2078-1). Please support and vote. [[17:11:48]] For three hundred Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one. Show me the factions, please. People's Party - 231, Opposition Platform - For Life - 3, European Solidarity - 21, Parenthood - 11, Future - 18, Voice - 16, non-fractional - 29. God forbid we accept all the bills like that. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question of the agenda, but I'm asking you not to break up, here's all the adjustments included, this is the second reading. You have been proposed to amend Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine to ensure compliance with Ukraine's obligations to transport natural gas under the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the Energy Community Treaty and taking into account the relevant provisions of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the EU, the European Atomic Energy Community and their member States, on the other hand (Registration No 2359-1). The report is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich. I hope that you will remember the title of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u80	I, with your permission, Mr. Speaker, will not mention the title of the bill, I will say that two proposals were made before this bill, they were taken into account in part or in fact. Also during the committee's consideration, our distinguished colleague, Mrs. Olga Bielkova, insisted on proposals from the Fatherland faction, which were also taken into account in essence. So now there are three amendments that are included in this bill. And given that this bill allows for the completion of this complex procedure called "andbanding," our committee recommended the adoption of Bill 2359-1 on second reading and in general with proposals by law enforcement entities, including the committee, and the technical legal process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u81	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I understand that all the checks are taken into account? Yeah? I'll bet you a vote. What? Andrew Ivanovich, what's the readout? What's the number for the readout? 3rd? 3 correct, please turn on the microphone, Nicolanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u82	Thank you. Indeed, it says that the law is essentially taken into account. But I want to pay attention, really, we've reached a compromise and to some extent the right thing to do. But we all need to know that this bill exempts us from taxation, which is right, from VAT on transfer. But to whom do we pass the GTS? And notice, we're handing over the GTS to a limited-liability company called the "Operator of the GTS of Ukraine" created by Ukrattransgas. It's like a 100 percent state-owned enterprise, but at the same time, society, but at the same time, its leadership in public speaking has been saying that it ignores government management. So I'm paying attention to getting control of this T.O. actually to the government. Because GTS is a little more important than other elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u83	Thank you. Andrew Ivanovich, don't you insist on voting? Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Law registration number 2359-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u84	Name? You've got it. I think you can just read it, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:16:12]] For 328 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 233, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 1, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 18, "non-fractional" – 24. Hello. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been invited to consider a draft Act amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the governance structure in the field of State customs and tax policy (registration No. 2318, 2318-1). I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:17:23]] For 255 Decision taken. The report is given by Hodakovsky’s Deputy Finance Minister, Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u85	Dear National Deputies! Law 2318 was designed by the government to improve the governance structure in the field of government customs and taxation, and it is part of Ukraine’s international obligations. The project will allow for the launching of the Sustainable Service and the State Tax Service in the form of the only legal persons, which will allow their territorial authorities to function, not as individual legal entities, but as separate departments of these services with the necessary powers. The purpose of this law is to restore service leadership; to optimize the use of human resources by redistributing them from management to professional services; to centralize individual functions such as the development and maintenance of infrastructure, the purchase and repair of technical equipment, public procurement of goods and services, and so on. In addition, the draft law provides for a number of measures aimed at enhancing the investment capacity of the state authorities. In particular, it is possible to delegate to the head of the central executive body, the head of the territorial authority of individual powers. The characteristics of the civil servants of the State Service, the State Tax Service, and their territorial bodies are defined. It is possible to obtain free-of-charge information in the form of sensitive information on export-import operations, such as the customs value of goods and information on offences. The scope of electronic documents in customs is widened. The implementation of the law will help to achieve the objectives of reducing time and money for good business, further introducing electronic services, as well as more efficient organizational structures, the State Customs and State Tax Services, built according to a functional principle. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u86	Thank you. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have before you a bill that deals with a very important stage of administrative reform related to the division of the State Fiscal Service into the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service. In fact, from that conglomerate of state organs, which today is the State Customs Service of Ukraine, it is already being created, it is proposed to create a single centralized structure within which instructions will be effectively and clearly implemented and will be centralized. The Cabinet of Ministers has introduced a bill that the National Deputies have worked on and submitted their alternative, which is, in fact, proposed to the Supreme Council for adoption as a basis. In addition to changing the name "receipts and assemblies" to "customs authorities", or purely technical regulations, it was also possible to publish the declassified information on the customs value and the transactions that the customs had performed in order to eliminate the corruption risks and each entity could combine its operations with those that had been carried out before. In addition, some customs formalities will be carried out by an automated customs administration system, and some declarations will be able to determine whether certain operations will be able to be made by other customs officers. Forms and volumes of customs control will be able to choose an automated risk management system. Thus, we believe that after considering a committee meeting in the Supreme Council, we have recommended to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian Law 2318-1 to be adopted on a basis and we ask the Supreme Council to support us in this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u89	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Iron.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u90	Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, given our powerful schedule for today, I will not spend much time. I'm going to say that we supported this bill, although it should be noted that only through the fruitful work of the committee members, the tax, financial and customs committee, it has become better and can be accepted as a basis. Of course, there's a lot to work on. But this is the step and the opportunity that will give us the only customs, hopefully, a new one that will give us the best quality, and above all that will bring about the coming of the state budget and the simplification of the business and business conditions in our country. Thank you. We will support this bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u92	Thank you. Vitatrovich Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u93	Please pass the word to Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u94	One more time, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u95	The Southern Nina Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u96	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In fact, a very difficult question is now being considered, and it should be launched in full procedure. Because the reform of the State Fiscal Service started in the previous call. And they really fought for a long time, just the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy of the previous call, for the creation of an independent national customs office. At that time, we were able to prove to the European Commission that these services were to be separated in Ukraine and that the efficiency of the Ukrainian customs was dependent on its independence and ability. What is it now proposed to do with this bill? In addition to much reform, the State Service will soon work as a new structure. There is already a decree, adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, on the creation of 26 territorial customs 16. But no customs function is cleared. That is, the function, the number of payers, external economic operators, remains the same, and we shorten without automating without bringing all customs procedures into line. That's the first huge observation. Let's look at the impact of that reform that you've already introduced because of the reduction in customs duties. The bill is now trying to create one legal person at all for one purpose, one: so that the new leader, Mr. Nepheodov, can appoint the entire management warehouse of all the territorial customs. Do you understand? In order to do so, it is not necessary to modify and amend the Customs Code. All you have to do is change the State Service Act, where you give it as a subject. determine its subject of the appointment of such persons. He says he can't handle what undirected people are in places, because they're not assigned to him, they're assigned.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u98	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u99	In addition, they are not subject to local authority. He also says that a single execution methodology is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u100	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u101	Coltunovich, please pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u102	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Head. I would like to say briefly that today we are undergoing another reform of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. It seems to me that 2011 or 2012 when we were united in the tax service, customs were then called the only State Fiscal Service or the Ministry’s incomes and congregations. And then we were convinced by our international partners that it would be a colossal plus for the national economy, that it would be a colossal plus for the public service as a whole and for the customs service in Ukraine. Today, we have the same arguments that we will again be optimizing, that we will have improvements and that customs policy in the country will be changed. So I'll have a logical question, whether we're going to be doing the same thing here or elsewhere in a few years, but we're going to be discussing again with international partners that we need to redistribute or reunite and reform the Ukrainian State Customs Service. And I insist on the most important. I didn't want to go down 1209 and 1210. But I want to point out that we still need to propose a new tax principle, which is the main, customs policy. When we're talking about cancelling times, when we're talking about completely different tariff rates, we have to understand with you that we have to stimulate economic growth in the country, not engage in empty reforming to just show the simulation of work. Our party will not support this bill. And I would also like to draw attention to the position of the GNEU that this bill needs to be finalized to take into account the comments made and the suggestions made. So our position is to bring it back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u104	Thank you. Dubil Valeriy Alexanderovich. Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I want to remind and correct some of my former colleague. The reform of the Customs Service has been going on for nine years, since 2010, and that was the concept: face to face. Only so far do we continue these reforms, and these two bills, they also show us that reforms are continuing, reforms for reform. And on our committee, where we invited Mr. Nephrodov, he was unable to respond in a clear way, but what prevents him from starting the customs office, and why the old personnel in the previous service are now assigned by him to certain positions. And this bill, unfortunately, is still called for further concentration of power in one place. And today it's actually prescribed under one director, contradicting other bills, including state service bills. And as a result, well, well, if we have a certain service manager with a beard or some socks, and tomorrow there's another one, we'll be doing the bill again? So given some contradictions and these mistakes that we find inappropriate, and further concentration, the "Paternity" faction will refrain from supporting the bill as one that needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u106	Thank you. Are you still willing to make a statement? Wasn't it? And Kachura Alexander Anatoliyovich, the "Slut of the People" faction, after. Wait, please. Then we go to the vote. All of them.? From "The Fatherland" was a performance, no, from "The Fatherland" was a performance, it was just Andrew Ivanovich Nikolayenko. Then we will proceed to the vote, please prepare. Alexander Anatolyevich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u107	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Colleagues certainly need to support this bill, which provides for the liquidation of individual legal persons, such as islands, for tax and customs purposes. We must do everything we can to ensure that the tax and customs services are directed. We're giving every opportunity to new leadership to stop smuggling. European partners estimate smuggling in our country at $9 billion to $10 billion, and experts at $50 billion. We have to do everything we can to do it. Stop smuggling. That's where the pensions are, that's where the high wages are, that's where the roads are, and you're going to be embarrassed to see the citizens when you're dating them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine and some other Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the governance structure in the field of State customs and tax policy (Registration No. 2318-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[17:32:13]] For 272 Decision taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" – 219, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fathership" – 0, "For the Future" – 17, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 16. Thank you, the decision is made. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, on October 3, 2019, the Supreme Council was adopted as a second reading and as a whole as the Ukrainian Act of Renting State and Municipal Property. In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, we need to remove some inconsistencies in certain provisions of the law. The word is given by the committee to the deputy chairman of the committee of the national deputy, Alexi Mucchan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, distinguished national deputies, and Mr. Head. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Law on Renting State and Municipal Property on 3 October 2019. During the preparation of the above - mentioned Ukrainian law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, his text revealed clear disagreements between individual positions. In particular with regard to the taking of effect of this law in part of the electronic trading system and the corresponding provisions of articles 15 and 16 of this Law, as well as with regard to the clarification of the terms of the extension of contracts for State and municipal leases, including legal persons providing social services. In view of the amendments that have been added to the corresponding articles by new parts of the numbering process, it has been necessary to change the links to the relevant parts of the electronic trading system. In view of what was decided by the Committee on Economic Development at its meeting on October 16, 2019, to recommend the elimination of these differences in accordance with article 131 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council. This is: in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of section "Towards and Transitional Positions" throughout the text of the sub-item, replace the words "Parts of Article 15, Part Five, Article 16" with the words "Part Eight, Part Six, Article 16" in all differences. The other one. In paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section “Towards and Transitional Positions”, the words “to the fourth part of the second part of article 18” shall be replaced by “to the fifth part of the second part of article 18”. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, your proposals were, firstly, handed out, secondly, bugged. If there is no objection, we may proceed to the vote for this document. I remind you, he is voting for the 131st Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposals that have been made to you, as well as on the settlement of disagreements in the text of the adopted Law on Renting State and Municipal Property (Registration No. 1055-1). People's deputies, please vote and support. [[17:36:24]] For 259. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice for the Improvement of the Review of Judgments in the Appeals and Continuum Order (Registration No. 2314). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:37:08]] For 229 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Head of State has been introduced and defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice for the Improvement of the Review of Court Decisions in the Appeals and Cocasation Order (Registration No. 2314). The main objective of the bill is to ensure that all courts apply the same speedy application, reduce the workload on the Supreme Court and ensure a uniform distribution of cases between courts. The achievement of the stated objective is proposed in particular by establishing clear grounds for a case-by-case appeal against the decisions of the first instance court and the decision of the appellate court, by preventing a case-by-case complaint if the rules of substantive and procedural law are correctly applied, by harmonising civil, commercial and administrative jurisdiction rules with the preservation of everyone's specificity. In addition, with a view to preventing the abuse by the parties of their procedural rights and optimizing the proceedings procedure, the bill proposes, inter alia, to clarify the exclusive jurisdiction of the Kyiv Master Court in relation to the handling of the relevant disputes, to introduce mechanisms to prevent the abuse of the procedural rights of the parties to the trial for the prosecution of judges and the application of enforcement measures; to exclude the possibility of halting the competition for auctions, trades, tenders and other public proceedings by means of appeal; and to oblige judges to direct the issue of a court order for the prosecution rather than refusing to issue it; and to give the parties to the court the right to challenge of refusing the review of the court's judgment of the newly discovered circumstances, as well as a number of others. Thus, the adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to ensure the continuity and uniformity of judicial practice, promote the rule of law and one element of the principle of legal certainty. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt the bill (registration No. 2314). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u114	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on legal policy, Novikov Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting a draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine on improving the review of court decisions in the appeal and cassation order (Registration No. 2114), submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. The draft law was discussed with representatives of the Courts of Cassation and Appeals in all three jurisdictions. The draft opinion concluded that a number of comments and proposals to the bill should be taken into account in order to remove errors and contradictions in the text of the bill, in particular by supplementing its text, by provisions necessary to preserve the integrity and consistency of the rules of the codified acts that were not considered in the first reading. On the basis of articles 114, 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, the Committee of Legal Policy decided to review its conclusion of 13 November 2019 and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice for the better review of decisions in the appeal and cassation order (regision number 2314), submitted by the President as an urgent result of the first reading, on the basis of the proposed clarifications, by entrusting the committee with the task of deploying the amended text of the bill on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To entrust the Head of the Legal Policy Committee with a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the bill on the basis of the proposed clarifications in exchange for the earlier draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 November 2019 No. 2314/P. Ask the Head of the Supreme Council to announce to the plenary during the consideration of this bill in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need for proposals and amendments to the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u116	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u117	Controversies in the text of the bill of other structural parts of the bill, other legislative acts that were not considered in the first reading and correspond to the subject of legal regulation of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please register two in favor, two in front of the factions. Sussun Inna Romanovna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u119	Please hand over Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u120	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u121	Macaroo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u122	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, we have a very important bill before us. It was so important that it should have been submitted before the adoption of the Law amending judicial administration. Because it is he who is making procedural filters, and I intend to reduce the number of cases that will be brought before the Supreme Court. But what we did. Initially, we passed the Law on Judicial Administration, which reduced the number of members of the Supreme Court without reducing the number of cases. And now, in haste, we are introducing a very important bill. 25.10.2019, a week after the adoption of the bill on judicial administration, a fundamental document was introduced to amend the four procedural codes. The copyright team worked well. But unfortunately, because of the tighter deadlines, it didn't work out. Thanks to the efforts of our committee head Irina Venedictova, thanks to the efforts of the head of the committee of Mikhail Novikov, the team has been able to gather experts, gather experts, and work on this bill. But what are we now proposing? Instead of sending it back for re-reading and 19 pages of the draft bill being drafted, we are invited to adopt a regulation, which is not provided for in any article of the Supreme Council Rules. Our proposal: to now be guided by Rule 114 of the Supreme Council Rules is to return the bill for re-reading, to accept it as a committee version, and to this more perfect version to apply to the people's deputies. I propose, especially to the lawyers, to hold back and vote in favour of reiterating the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u124	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. Mikisha Dmitry Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u125	Please pass the word to Paul Paulish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u126	Pavliš Pavel Vasilovich, faction of "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u127	Thank you. In fact, we have before us a very important bill, and I thank our colleagues who have also participated in its preparation. And during the preparation of the work, not only the national deputies of Ukraine, but also the judges and judges and the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the specialized courts and appeals courts took part in the development and right. A big job was done. This bill improves people's access to it. Access to justice. And this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u128	Thank you. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u129	Please pass the word to Knyazevitch Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u130	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u131	Thank you, Mr. Head. To be honest, respectable colleagues like me are a powerful example of how laws should not be passed in Ukraine. Because in my memory, I don’t remember it yet, but it may have been similar. When the committee’s conclusion on nearly 20 pages exceeds the number of pages of the bill itself. So we are, in fact, now under a serious dilemma that we need to solve somehow. And the solution proposed by the committee is completely wrong. The point is that we want to apply, or not for the first time, 116 in a new edition. Which predicts that if there are errors and inaccuracies, they may be corrected for the second reading and the corresponding corrections must be made. If that is what the committee concluded, and the chairman of the meeting under the transcript repeated all these things. But the thing is, your esteemed colleagues, 116th is about second reading, not first reading. But we want to right now, we're trying to correct the content of this bill, which, unfortunately, is, for me, quite hasty, on my knee written, with a huge number of mistakes, on my first reading. That's not how it's done. It was, indeed, as a colleague of Makarov said, and I suggested it on the committee, to use the corresponding 114 - article article of the Rules, which allows you to return to the committee for the first time. To authorize the committee and in accordance with the requirements of our decision, this is the way to make the appropriate decision for the rereading of the first reading. We could still work with that updated text. Now, think about it, it's a law that's actually being passed in a different way than you have on your hands. And I don't know what kind of editorial we're going to do. That's absurd. It can't be like that at all. This violates the right of legal entities to take the initiative. In fact, we're going to do the sisyphic work when we do the adjustments that aren't even automatically considered. Friends, let's go back to the first reading, without discussion, there's a press line for this, a committee fast in the new edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u132	Thank you. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u133	We're going to support this kind of approach on the committee, and this will allow us to immediately consider, at this week's time, a normal first reading, a fundamental law such as myself, amending the procedural codes. Otherwise, we will definitely deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u134	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u135	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. There's something so shy that everyone doesn't want to say, what the President put there in 2314. The president in 2314 introduced a completely politicized bill, which had little to do with his name, which was completely oriented towards solving a number of political issues and which, as the committee concluded, contained inaccuracies, inaccuracies, inconsistencies and so on and so forth. For some reason, the bill is called "to improve the review of court decisions in appeal and cassation" and the left part is provided for by the security measure, that is, what happens in the courts of the first instance. Plus, the President's bill itself does not solve the problem that this Supreme Council has created by reducing the number of Supreme Court judges by half. There is no way to determine how these 77 cases will be resolved, even more than the thousands of cases that have now accumulated in the Supreme Court. Instead, the committee’s professional subcommittee actually did a good job and greatly improved the text that is there. But the devil in nuances, and today the sessional hall offered a totally wrong, wrong procedure for adopting this law, questioning the legitimacy of this law at the end of its adoption. I really agree with those colleagues who insisted and I also insisted on a committee that we should go in the only possible regulatory way: now bring this bill back to the committee for a second reading, use the work of the subcommittee in the first reading and then bring it back into the room in a more or less normal form and procedurally correct manner. Not as we are now offered a special decree that is not provided for by any norm of the Rules. This cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u136	A word of motive to the committee's head. All those who wish to speak? Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u137	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon. In fact, as already noted, Bill 2314 is an important bill. We've just heard three representatives who, in different degrees of disagreement, have been asked to return to their first reading. This is the last time we've heard about political motives, but it's a completely procedural, procedural bill. He is very well assisted by the committee and the judges of the court of cassation and appeal, for which we are very grateful to the judges. Moreover, there have already been cases where the decrees were thus passed, and on October 2, 2018, a decree was passed in the same way, a bill, and October 10, 2018. Thus, examples of the adoption of such regulations in the Supreme Council are, and this is a normal practice, which was not disputed in any way. So let's adopt a bill that will unload the Supreme Court and really solve the problems of legal process law and application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal of the committee for adoption on the basis of proposals by the committee to take account of the proposed clarifications in preparation for the second reading, in accordance with article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of the draft Act amending the master procedural code of Ukraine, the Civil Procedural Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine for the improvement of the review of judicial decisions in the appeal and cassation order (Registration No. 2314). Please support and vote. [[17:53:17]] For 233 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 225, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "For the Future" – 3, "The Voice" – 0, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, the committee requested that the preparation of proposals and allowances be cut by half and that the second reading be prepared in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I'll bet you a vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill (register No. 2314). Please support and vote. [[17:54:24]] For 232 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to extend the possibility of representing the authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the authorities of local self-government, other legal persons irrespective of the order in which they were created in court. It is suggested that we consider it. Bill registration number 2261. It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:55:17]] For 248 Decision taken. The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Kostin Andriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill is to settle what should have been settled in 2016 during the previous judicial reform. Then it turned out that legal persons were deprived of representation rights from their own interests in the court by the forces of their staff, that is, legal persons had to hire lawyers in order to be represented in a court of law. This is the norm. This law on compulsory participation of lawyers has been in effect since January 1, 2020. And the problem is that this whole story is spread not only to legal persons of private law but also to legal persons of state, local self-government, and it can create great problems for all of us. As an example. Only the organs of the Ministry of Justice, both the central apparatus and the district office, have 10,000 lawsuits this year and, if we don't pass this law with you, they're going to have to hire lawyers from next year, and we're going to spend too much budget to have our state authorities represented in court. Moreover, this law also deals with the question of what a legal person can represent himself on his own. The procedural codes now state that only the head of such a legal person or a member of the governing body can represent a person legally in the order of representation. And if a legal person has dozens of cases in different courts, for example, such a right becomes a fiction because it cannot be implemented. It could be a bank, it could be a big company that has dozens or hundreds of things to do. The right, which is fiction, cannot exist in our country. Thus, the law is proposed in procedural codes, the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u140	Give me two minutes, because Kostin Andriy Evgenovich is both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u141	Thus, it is a technical bill that we allow legal persons, both private law and public authorities and local self - government, to present themselves on their own in the order of representation by the forces of their employees, that is, persons bound by a contract of employment, a contract. We all know that our organs are state, local governments have many high-quality specialists who can represent their interests. And spending too much budget to hire lawyers on all matters, we don't think that's appropriate. In the meantime, if we adopt this law, legal entities and local authorities will still be able to use the services of lawyers. But it will be their choice, not the compulsory hiring of lawyers, as provided for in the article. "Transitional positions" to the Constitution of Ukraine, which have been in force since 1 January 2020. I will tell you right away that self-representation, unlike representation, is not limited to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely article 131-2, which stipulates that only lawyers represent other persons in court. I mean, article 131-2 of the Constitution, it speaks of the representation of another person, but for a legal person, his legal personality is no different. He does so, not under a civil contract, but in carrying out his service duties. The Committee recommended that the Committee on Legal Policy at the meeting recommend that the draft law be adopted on the basis of the first reading and shorten the deadline for submitting comments and proposals to the draft bill for its consideration on the second reading. Because we have to adopt this law and sign it by January 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up: two for, two for, two for, one for, two for, one for, two for factions. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u143	Please pass the word to Oleg Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u144	Makarov Oleg Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, this law is actually a compromise between the desire to change the Constitution and the desire to limit the so-called legal monopoly before the validity of the changes to the Constitution, which we have not even voted by 226 votes for the first time. This law provides that legal persons may represent themselves by giving confidence to a fellow worker who can visit courts and represent the interests of his business. I think this bill needs to be adopted in the first reading. But I want to say again that I don't agree with the argument that was made by the reporter. The reporter said that this law should be adopted by the New Year. Because after the New Year, it will not be possible to represent the interests of its business as a result of changes to the Constitution, one hundred and thirty-first part with the mark two. I want to deny it. It is from the New Year that this bill, if it is voted this year, published and become effective, will start to contradict the Constitution of Ukraine, the article that I have just named and quoted. I therefore believe that all state-owned enterprises, state-owned bodies should prepare for the fact that, as of 1 January, Article 131, item 2, will have to work to involve quality representatives from the legal corps, to represent the interests of their enterprises, to conduct cases at a high level in court, through the involvement of lawyers from the legal community who will go to court according to the agreements that lawyers will make with such enterprises. This law can act temporarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u146	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Fedor Volodymyrovich Venislavski, the faction of the political party "Serve of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u147	Please pass the word to Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u148	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u149	Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u150	Please pass the word to Roman Babi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u151	Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, a very important bill. Yes, it is to some extent technical, but it does not need to be overemphasized. This bill reveals the concept of "self-representation", which is mentioned and used in the Constitution of Ukraine. And this bill allows us to represent the interests of legal persons, including public authorities, and local self-government, not by lawyers, but by hired lawyers, let's say, on the basis of trust. Because it is obvious that the leader himself will not be able to reach out after the new year, he will not be able to cover a large number of trials involving a legal person, a government authority, or a local government. I'm going to point out that this bill on constitutional changes is not about revealing the notion of self-representation. And the importance of the bill is that we solve the problem of financing public authorities and local self-government of lawyers, instead of allowing them to make employment contracts for skilled lawyers to represent their interests in the courts. My colleagues would like to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u153	Fedina Sofia Romanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u154	Fedina Sofia, European Solidarity. Please hand over Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u155	Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u156	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, well, it's not so clear. If that were the case, it would be obvious that the drafters would even write about it in an explanatory note. But they clearly write, realizing that this bill may conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. We're talking about what he might be up against, really right now. At this point in time, if it becomes effective by 1 January, it will not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. This problem is, indeed, it exists, it worries not only the leaders of legal persons of private law but also public law, authorities, self - government. There is a problem. But there is more to the problem than the legislative scale, the question of constitutionality. Indeed, we are now trying, there is already the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, as far as I understand, perhaps even this or next week will consider the prior approval of changes to the Constitution. But when will these changes to the Constitution become part of the Constitution if they are even voted? I assure you, this is not going to happen until January 1. Moreover, we're going to have a serious problem because from January 1st and until the moment that these changes are adopted, if they are accepted, another standard of the Constitution will work. And there's still big questions about how to be able to interpret what's going on in this case, how constitutional it is to implement the mechanism after it's become effective. Imagine what this will mean in terms of budget spending, organizational problems, and a series of serious fundamental things that no one thinks about. So this bill will probably be contrary to this part of the Constitution as of January 1. What do you want to do? Those questions that raise the question that the involvement of a lawyer will conflict with the Anti-Corruption Act, will require a certain correlation of budgetary nature, all the technical issues that we will have to consider and resolve. But the fundamental question is we're at this level and at this point we can't solve it. That is why this bill is hasty. Let's wait for changes to be made to the Constitution, and only then will we make changes to those changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I now give the floor to Bondar Victor Vasilovich. All those who wish to speak? Is there a reason why no one wants to speak? From the "Serial of the People" faction? How's the committee head? In the end, ladies are motivated. And, dear colleagues, now Bondar Viktor Vasilovich, Venedictova Irina Valentinovna, and then we go to the vote. Please. Invite the national MPs. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u158	Thank you, dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich. We're proposing and calling on everyone to support this bill, it's really going to allow our local self-government authorities to participate in the courts through the representation of state-level lawyers working in a system that works in government bodies. We don't have the funds today, and no one's budgeted them to hire extra lawyers, and it's too embarrassing to present their interests in different courts in different cases. So we still propose to support this bill. And if some public authorities need more qualified legal aid, they can additionally anticipate in the budget the cost of making agreements with legal firms to further represent their interests. That's why we're going to the hall. Let's support this bill. He has the right to life, and he will help solve the problems that exist and can arise in the implementation of past laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u159	Thank you. Vendict's Irina Valentinovna is a motive. And then we go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u160	Colleagues, I'm very fast. I want to respond to the rumor that it's a premeditated law and let's wait. No, it's not. This law should really be adopted and adopted quickly. It does not refer to changes to the Constitution because it refers to changes in procedural codes, and it is about expanding the concept of self-representation for legal persons. Indeed, it will be very necessary for both state authorities and local governments, and generally for legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to extend the possibility of representation of the authorities of the State, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local self-government authorities, other legal persons irrespective of the order in which they are established in court (Registration No. 2661). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:10:13]] For 314 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, have put to the vote the proposal to cut back on the proposal and the right and prepare for the second reading of the bill (registration No. 2261). Please support and vote. [[18:10:48]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel, on the liberalisation of ethyl alcohol (second reading) activities (registration No. 2300). Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Development, Nataluh Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u162	Mr. Head, dear colleagues, thank you very much. A few weeks ago, I stood there and asked you to support the bill in the first reading, not considering its imbalance under our own promise that as a committee we would bring it to the point where we would make it impossible not only a state monopoly but also a private monopoly, a monopoly of so-called private cartels. Today, I am pleased to inform you that in a few weeks of work, the committee has done this task, we believe, has done even more. We've made some very important details, and we've made a number of rights, which are mostly for the transparent production of alcohol. It's about correcting the 24-hour video surveillance of the production process. We filed an application for protection of domestic manufacturers. This is about import restrictions until the age of 24. And the point is that in the coming months, the privatization of companies in the alcohol industry will be with the highest revenue for the state, while preserving jobs and people working in these businesses. I want to pay particular attention to the fact that the committee was philosophically the only one that was extremely important when it was working on this bill. I would like to thank the committee and all its members without exception for almost one-person support of this bill in the second reading and all the amendments to it. Therefore, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine and to adopt, on second reading and in general, as a law with further technical and legal drafting, draft Law 2300. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u163	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. No. 9, Jujanina. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, there's not much right here. The request is not to be dispersed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u164	Dear Mr. Head, I am truly grateful that your committee has taken a very constructive approach to the revisions and even considered those amendments that have never been taken into account by the Committee on Finances on Normative Technology, and this is very important in the plan of understanding the law. But at 9th Amendment, I also wanted to draw your attention to the fact that there is already a structure in the current law that, first of all, we have Minfin already called "the body that provides for the state's financial policy." So not counting in one place of my correction means you just haven't seen it. Because Minfin is already in the design of the law, just as an authority that does not implement state tax and customs policies does, but ensures the formation of state financial policies. If possible, take into account technical legal procedures to prepare for signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u165	Do you insist on voting? I can't hear you. You insist. Edit number nine? Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u166	Yeah. Mrs. Jujanina, thank you very much. We're really going to take this into account in technical law. The edit is technically technical and actually alters a few words, no more, no less. Thank you. The committee's position was to reject this amendment. But if we're ready to support the room, we don't deny it, we're ready. It's very technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u167	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number nine of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee didn't count it. Please identify and vote. [[18:15:29]] For-179 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 10 of the People's Deputy of Jujanina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u168	This is about what I was just talking about. But, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, you asked again such a question that your colleagues in the "Serve of the People" faction would not vote. And we have to vote. This will resolve the committee’s hands. Then Minfin will also be referred to as the abbreviation that it should be, the name of that organ for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u169	Committee position. I'm sorry. Nina Petrovna, I feel as was suggested by the committee. The committee didn't support her. It was said that they would be accounted for in technical law. So I'm going to take it as the committee's decision was. 10 lashes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u170	If you don't mind. It's a little bit different. I don't think we're really talking about the same thing. Because the public tax authority and the public and financial policy body can be seen as the Ministry of Finance and the authority that implements public tax policy as the DPA. He'll be given these powers anyway. We don't think there's any point in being burdened with additional functions by an authority involved in the development of state policy. And in fact, you're proposing to translate the operating functions into it. That's why this was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u171	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 11th row, Owl. Don't insist. 12th, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u172	This amendment is the root and content of this whole bill. Dear colleagues, for today’s current norm, only ethyl alcohol producers can import ethyl alcohol. In your report, Mr. Chairman of the Committee, you said that if enterprises were exposed to privatization, they would be very attractive. How attractive would it be if the production of Ukrainian alcohol along with the people since 2024 was now thrown on the sidelines? Because if they can import all alcohol, not just in the missing part that Ukrainian producers can't produce, whether private or public, it means that a nice liquor producer, our Ukrainian, will import foreign alcohol twice or three times as cheap, because that's what it looks like right now, and it's going to produce its products from imported alcohol. We were protected for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u173	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u174	I'm connecting with other amendments and I'm not going to put them on, so let's literally deal with this one and that's it. So, I think that's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u175	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u176	It was in 2006 that the interests of this particular sector and of Ukrainian alcohol, which is to be produced in Ukraine, and at the entry into the WTO, and so far we have no comments from WTO members on this protectionist norm, we need to preserve it, whatever happens, whether it will be privatized or not privatized, or whether some of it will be privatized, but imports should only be made in a part that is not sufficient and could not be produced by our own manufacturers. Please explain why you did not consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u177	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u178	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that I don't understand how this amendment has thrown people out of the street since 2024. I'll remind you that at the right hand of 34, there are restrictions on the import of foreign alcohol until 2024. We expect that by 2024 the state of Ukraine will be able to privatise its own production to the state and thus provide a normal civilised market that will be implemented on competitive terms, regardless of which prices are cheaper or more expensive. It's about regulating this market, it's about the attractiveness of Ukraine as a producer state. This time. Two. You realize that the full technological cycle of production that it takes to obtain a license, it has to be tested. In order to obtain a license for the production of ethyl alcohol, ethyl fertilizing, ethyl-ratified grapes, one license is required to obtain a license for the production of beverages, another license. Where am I going? When you get any of these licenses, you still have to testify and give the appropriate authority proof that you have the right production, which is able to do alcohol.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u179	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u180	Then it is reasonable to assume that if you have this production that is tested and has a contract with the appropriate laboratory, you will be able to produce this alcohol anyway. So I don't understand why we have to ban the actual internal trade from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u181	Thank you, Dmitri Anatolyovich. Nina Petrovna, are you insisting on your right? Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote number 12 of the national deputy of Jujanina. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:21:21]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Nina Petrovna, I understand you're not insisting on any of the following, are you? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u182	Mr. Danilo, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u183	I'm not Danilo, well, nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u184	No, no, I'm in charge of the committee. Dmitri, if you don't mind, if you don't agree that we have to leave this sector, we've killed the fermentation branch, I've explained.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u185	Nina Petrovna, I apologize. We don't speak if we agree on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u186	Wait, it doesn't really matter, Mr. Dmitri. Then continue the term, not until 24, but until the 28th, if only for 10 years, in order to protect the homeland. Please take such a step. Because in the WTO, you will never be able to agree, and now you have the standard that everything has worked on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u187	Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry, are you not insisting on the paperwork? Thank you. Amendment number 18, Taruta. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u188	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to thank the committee for the professional discussion and the fact that you've started to hear the MPs who are filing the papers. Some of our adjustments are taken into account, some are not. First. Just a little bit of a deadline for not issuing new licenses, like a new construction, to sell what we have more than what we have. What does that mean? You did by July 1, 2022. It's small. Why? Because the law comes into force only six months later, in fact, a year later. That's pretty little you've done, let's say, that date. Next. This law doesn't make sense if we don't introduce the Bioethanol Act. Why? Because most factories can be sold under bioethanol. Mr. Head, I want you to give me three minutes, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u189	Give me another minute, please, Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u190	Thank you. Why do I say that? Because, colleagues, we already have 83 businesses today. 41 enterprises in the DP, others in the DPA, 39. 29 factories are equipped with electronic counters, 22 in unsatisfactory condition. I mean, what are we talking about? We're saying 31 can produce alcohol, and 10 can be sold under bioethanol. 10 bioethanol factories are new jobs or saving those that work. If we don't introduce the Law, I think, 2471, which will directly introduce the quota of bioethanol in our oil products, this law can actually allow us to sell a small number of enterprises, and another we will sell as industrial sites. My colleagues, last time I asked for systemicity, there's unfortunately no accounting for my bioethanol and our faction. So we will not vote in favour of this law because it is not systematic. He won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u191	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u192	I just have a lot of rights. He won't allow it, Mr. Head, just to fill the budget. Understand, we're here to preserve our productive potential to save people and fill the budget from privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u193	Thank you. 21st Amendment, Mama. Thank you. Are you going to insist on someone, Gregory Mikolaiovich? You won't? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare, we will soon proceed to the vote. Thirty-three, Batenko. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u194	Dear friends, how do we see the ideology of the privatization of the alcohol industry? First of all, we see this in line with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to produce an ideology for the division of businesses, existing industries in the alcohol industry, into certain stages, based on their liquidity. And that's three steps, that's the first stage that. which eliminates non-working companies in the liquor and liquor industry. The second step is to privatize enterprises that have prospects for development and recovery of manufacturing and re-profiling, as already said on bioethanol, technical alcohol and so on. And only the third stage, the later stage, is when the privatization of the first and second group objects is completed and provides for the privatization of high-cost alcohol industries. This will allow us not to cut down, friends, to cut down existing businesses that are small. And we insist on establishing a moratorium on the construction of new businesses by 2024. Please put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u195	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u196	The committee recommends that this amendment be rejected. And I can explain why you're suggesting that in three years, you go through about eight stages, which are essentially the next. The first step is the transfer to the State Property Fund of decisions to privatise the relevant documents. The second step is that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has a decision to approve the privatisation stages, and this is also a time. The third step is to eliminate the unemployed, who have no prospects, who determine the criteria for how to conduct audits. The fourth stage is an investment contest, terms of an investment competition, a process. So over the course of three years, all of these questions can't actually be suppressed. This time. Two. You still have alcohol production to do with the country. You're not running a free market, so by idea and in fact, this is probably the right thing to do, if we decide to leave the monopoly, but as if we're making a decision that we're creating a competitive market, unfortunately this is not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u197	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 33 of the Batenka People's Deputies to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[18:27:50]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Nataluha, 43 lines. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Ivchenko, what's the readout? You insisted. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u198	Colleagues, I ask you once again to understand the situation. It is necessary to demonolyse, of course, the production of alcohol. But in doing so, you have to take into account that the electronic bill should be in every factory, considering that the budget should get the maximum from privatization, whether or not the DP, or the IPA, or every enterprise. Next. If we see an opportunity today to launch bitanol, colleagues, it's corn, it's a process of salt production, it's going to go straight to bitanol, and it's going to go straight to the ecological supplements in the oil products. And it's impossible to vote for the law, and I already said that when we don't implement the bioethanol system directly together, let's say. That's why I'm here for us to be systematic. Without systems, this law doesn't make sense, we're just going to fill the pockets with those who want to move out, build two powerful factories, and nothing gets the budget from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u199	Thank you. Committee position. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u200	Yeah, I think the reverend Vadim Evgenovich is talking about the 45. She's absolutely fair. The only problem is that this is not the subject of regulation. You've already mentioned just as correctly that there's bill 2471 amending some legislation on the development of the field of liquid biofuels. And that's the law that you should add to. Regarding the previous 19th, the 18th, the other rights, they are taken into account editorially in other regulations that the committee has supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u201	Dear colleagues, we've gone through every step of the way, we're going to vote. No, for reasons, no. Thank you. Vadim Eugeniovich, not for reasons. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and fruit alcohol. About what? What, continue or not continue? I don't quite understand the question. 30 seconds, Nataluha.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u202	Do I understand my colleague correctly? I ask the Supreme Council to accept in the second reading and in general as the Law with further technical and legal processing. But I said that during the report. including colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u203	I'll put it to the vote, I'll put it to the vote. I just said I'd accept it, I'd like to take it from the other. No, until the 28th year, no. This, no, wait, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There will be no rights and no voice suggestions, dear colleagues. I'm willing to vote the way I do. Yes, in the committee's editorial, your honor. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and spirit drinks, tobacco and fuel, on the liberalisation of ethyl alcohol production activities (registration No. 2300). Ready to vote? Ready? Please support and vote. [[18:32:48]] For 284 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I have a request: When we put to the vote, we certainly don’t have to ask for the word anymore. Please show me the factions. "Serve of the People" – 229, "Resistance Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 3, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 19, "non-factional" – 19. Thanks again. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (for the co-consultation of National Deputy Assistants) (registration No. 2313, 2313-1, 2313-2, 2313-3). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[18:34:04]] For 262 Decision taken. The report is given by Ionushas Sergey Kostinovich, a national deputy of Ukraine. Is there a room in Ionushas?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u204	The Honourable Head, the Honourable Presidencies, fellow members of the National Deputies, together with colleagues, was drafted by Bill 2313 and 2313-2, amending certain legislative acts on the question of the co-existence of members of the patronage service of the Supreme Council. The drafting of this bill is due to the need for a clear legal definition of the status of assistant advisors to the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Secretaries of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, the Deputys and the Secretaries of the Deputies. So today, according to the requirements of the law, articles 3, 25, 36 of the Anti-Corruption Act, there are generally anti-corruption restrictions on the prohibition of paying or entrepreneurship, as well as the prohibition of having corporate rights. Instead, the special rule of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", namely, article 34, the National Parliament's assistants may work under a fixed-term contract of employment on a permanent basis or on a co-existence basis. In order to comply with the principle of legal certainty and avoid arbitrary interpretations of Ukrainian legislation, we are proposing to amend the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, where it is clear that non-counselling requirements do not extend to Ukrainian patrons. Moreover, at the present time, the employees of the patronage service of the Supreme Council comply with the requirements of article 40, "On preventing corruption" "are obliged to exercise their official powers to maintain political neutrality, to avoid any demonstration in any form of their own political convictions." For failure to comply with this anticorruption standard, a certain type of legal responsibility is foreseen. However, such a duty is not in the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. Moreover, its existence in anticorruption legislation can lead to a conflict of interests between them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u205	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u206	The interests of the people's MP. The bill should remove the existing differences. So, Your Honor, I ask you to support the bill, which is supported by the Anti-Corruption Committee, 2313-2 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u207	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenka Alexander Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u208	Honorable Presidium, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on Assistant Consultants of Ukrainian National Deputies (registration No. 2313-1). The bill was designed to ensure the right of Ukrainian National Deputy Assistant Consultants to work in conjunction with the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. Along with these members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy, including me as co-author, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was brought to the attention of 2313-2 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the issue of the compatibility of the patronage services of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which raised the issue of the removal of coalitions in legislation, not only of the assistant consultants of the Ukrainian national deputies, but also of all the employees of the patronage service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So Bill 2313-2 will be useful. Thank you for your attention. And please support Bill 2313-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Zablockicki Marjan Bogdanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. For the sake of time, we all understand the problem that needs to be solved. I also passed an alternative bill, but I agree with the committee's decision to support track 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u211	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Anticorruption Policy of the Krasnosil Anastasia Olegni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u212	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Anti-Corruption Policy considered Bill 2313 and Alternative Bill 2313-1, 2313-2 and 2313-3 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Bill 2313-2 as a whole be approved. This is a very simple technical bill, which aims to regulate the right of people's deputies to co-exist, as expressly provided for in the Law on the Status of People's Deputies. And the same opportunity to give, in particular, to members of the MP factions in the Supreme Council. The purpose of the bill is simply to stop the movement of security personnel from serving as part of the people's deputies that we now have. Bill 2313-2 is technically more perfect. He takes into account, in particular, the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, colleagues, the committee stresses that Bill 2313-3, it is essentially not an alternative under article 100 of the Rules, goes far beyond the subject of regulation of the main bill. A similar bill with number 2305 is before the committee and will be processed. And now, colleagues, the committee recommends and also very much asks for the basis and generally to adopt Bill 2313-2 in order to quickly address the question of the compatibility of the national MPs. I think it's in the common interest of all factions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u213	Thank you, Anastasia Olegna. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two for, two against factions. Have a seat. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u214	Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u215	Kabachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u216	Vladimir Kabachenko, Fatherland faction. A little bit of history. On October 2, 2019, that is, two months ago, during the second reading of the NAZC Bill 1029, which took effect on October 18, 2001, some positions were adopted that were not consistent with the logic of the law itself. And that's why "Fatherland" during the vote pointed out the imperfections of this bill and abstained from voting. It's only been a month since the bill came into force, and we're already bringing the law into force. Despite the fact that the main purpose of the bill was to reform the NAMC, it contained such unsustainable standards. One of the provisions of the bill was the inclusion of a patron service in the list of persons on whom the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act was applied. An example of a protective service is our assistant advisors to the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Next. The bill contained the following responsibilities and limitations for our helpers. First. Restrictions on compatibility and compatibility with other activities. Restrictions on entrepreneurship and corporate rights. Declaration obligations. I suggest you consider the following situation. The payroll fund for assistant advisors of national MPs is 48,000 dollars. Each MP has the right to employ four assistant consultants. So each assistant gets a salary of up to 10,000 dollars. In your opinion, if you are banned from doing business, will a competent professional agree to work for 10,000 dollars? I've registered Bill 2305, which deals comprehensively with our consulting assistants. But the "Fatherland" faction supports Bill 2313-2 in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u217	Thank you. Bondar Victor Vasilovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u218	Dear friends, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich, of those bills of alternatives that we have examined, our MPs will support 2313-3, because we understand the situation in which the members of the Supreme Council are today. Dear colleagues, we work for the third month, in fact, in the turbine or in the semi-turbour. And today is the day of this confirmation, when we are working towards the exhaustion of the order of the day. At the same time, we have received today a number of drafts, some of which are over 40. Most of which we got, of course, somewhere at the end of last week, maybe last night. It is evident that the deputies are not alone in analyzing them, but are being analyzed by the assistants. And the status of assistants is not the status of assistants who have ministers who have big states. And Parliament's responsibility is no less than, let's say, the President of Ukraine, because the proportion of people who think that Parliament should be the subject that has to bear the full responsibility in the state is growing next to some people who think that the President's responsibility should be greater than that of Parliament. So I point out that we should keep in mind our helpers, their status, the status of the protective service that we have compared since October 18, this year to their having to fill out electronic declarations. This made their work even more difficult. Dozens of helpers, I don't think I'm gonna let them lie, they're getting fired today. These are the good people who are preparing drafts for us. So in this situation, I think it's appropriate to support this particular bill 2313-3, which proposes to completely repeal the rules on the extension of the law adopted on 18 October of this year, and which actually stood for all these advantages of the public service that have been removed from our protective service in the past. Let's support our quality people, the helpers that help us create quality legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u219	Thank you. Irina Volodymyrna's character.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u220	Please, Mrs. Sumar, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u221	Sumar Victoria Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u222	Thank you. Well, you know, the devil is hiding in the details, as you know. And when we look at these few bills, I understand the desire of some colleagues to get out of the anti-corruption law of the whole patronage service. But a protective service to the patronage of the divisions. And let's be honest about this. Because one thing is the National Deputies, and the other is the President’s Office. And this is also a protective service. And so comparing these two categories today is meaningless. I urge my colleagues not to dissipate their voices right now, but to support that bill that supports the profiling committee, that's 2313-2. And, indeed, we are now forced to correct the mistakes that we made with the turbines. I am deeply convinced that the assistants of the national deputies are indeed not authorized to perform the functions of the State, since they do not actually sign anywhere. They help a national MP, who is already directly responsible. This bill, 2313-2, provides, inter alia, for exceptions to the Law on the Compatibility of Standards for Assistant National Deputies and Advisers to the Secretaries of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and does not extend to such institutions as the Office of the President. This is an absolutely adequate action, let's now make a quick decision on this issue on the basis and in general in order to prevent the flow of intelligence from the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have our last speech and then we're going to the vote. Is there no one with motive? None. Then I'd like you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. The word is given to Slavic Antonini Kerimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u224	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'm actually very short. I support previous speakers, because the bill that we are considering today is the result of the adoption of Bill 1029 in the pipeline. But I think this bill is one that unites the hall and our opposition faction "Platform for Life" will support it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u225	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. It's an important bill, because tomorrow you're going to be out of help. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out immediately that the committee recommends that this bill be adopted as a basis and as a whole. I'll put it on the ground now. Then I hope there will be no one to deny it and we will be able to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a bill amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act (registration No. 2313-2). Please take your seats, national deputies. Ready to vote? Ready. Please support and vote. [[6:49:56]] For 318 Decision taken. In general. Okay. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal remedies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act on the Compatibility of Assistant Consultants to Ukrainian National Deputies (registration No. 2313-2). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:50:43]] For 321 Against zero, hold on to one. And please show me the factions. Please, by the factions. "Serve of the People" – 216, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 21, "European Solidarity" – 16, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 14, "Voice" – 17, "non-factional" – 23. Dear colleagues, I think everyone sees who held on. I don't know how the assistants of this national MP will react. Let's see. Thank you all. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have a project to consider. I'm sorry. Your consideration of the election of a member of the High Council of Justice. According to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine elects members of the Supreme Council of Justice. In accordance with Rule 208 of the Rules, the next order of consideration is proposed. A report by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the legal policy of Venedict Irina Valentinovna – within 3 minutes, a statement by the candidate of the Supreme Justice Council of Sukman Olena Valerijovni – in up to 2 minutes, the candidate for questions by Ukrainian national deputies – in 6 minutes, statements by factions and groups, up to 18 minutes. After that, the decision was made. Are there any objections to the rules? She didn't come. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now give the floor to the head of the committee, but the candidate is not here. I'll give the floor then to the head of the committee, let's go to the vote. Irina Valentine's Day, not long, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u226	Comrades, good afternoon! It's a very short personnel question. It was quite right by the Head of the Supreme Council that the Supreme Council, according to the Constitution, elects two members of the Supreme Council of Justice. The competition was announced in November 2018 and there were three candidates for two vacancies. When the committee met on this subject in November 2019, two GWP candidates withdrew their documents and only Mrs. Sukmanova remained. However, the committee, after considering both the documents and all the necessary conclusions on the candidate's special examination, concluded that since there is no "National Front" faction any longer from this faction, from the "National Front" was put forward by the candidate to the MPP, the committee almost unanimously, I think it came to the conclusion that, since the subject already does not exist, but existed in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, it is entirely logical for the Supreme Council of the Ninth Call to recommend not to choose a candidate from the "National Front" subject but to open a new competition. That is how the conclusion was drawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u227	Dear colleagues, regarding the committee head’s report, considering that there is no candidate and that there is a call by national deputies from many factions, I suggest we proceed to the vote. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to elect Sukman’s Helen Valeriyov as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself and vote. [[18:54:51]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 208 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to publish on the official website of the Supreme Council of Ukraine information on the new acceptance of proposals by the deputy factions, the parliamentary groups concerning candidates for the posts of members of the Supreme Council of Justice. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You are invited to consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise duties) (registration No. 2317). Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:55:55]] For 238. Decision taken. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. Danilo Alexandrovich, are you both from the committee and from the authors? Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u228	Dear colleagues, on July 1, this year, a new system of electronic fuel and ethyl alcohol management was launched. The idea of this system is very appropriate: to ensure full accounting of fuel flows throughout Ukraine in such a way as to make it impossible for the shadow to run. However, the system was adopted with errors, with mistakes that in some cases made it impossible for businesses to operate in this system at all, and somewhere created additional burdens for businesses that made their work impossible and very difficult. Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich, for your support. On October 1, fines came in. You and I have made a decision that they were delayed for two months. But on December 1st, they regained their power, and today, businesses — thousands of businesses in Ukraine — have to pay fines automatically for failing to meet the demanding requirements of the electronic administration system. We set up a working group on the committee that worked pretty productively for a month and worked out all the shortcomings of this system, and we developed a bill, Bill 2317. I'm telling you the story of this system so you can understand how important it is to adopt this bill today. I'm not going to count the revisions that we've done, I'm sure in the text of the bill you can find them for yourself. But we've improved both the form of the excise note and the term of the excise note, and the order in which it's folded and the way it's folded. In addition, we offered a bill of lading for aviation gasoline. Information about excise warehouses The State Tax Service will have on its website, and this can be verified. Actually, consumption. We compared contracts to our own consumption in the bill in a row when companies use subcontractors to provide transport services. The committee considered the bill at its meeting and proposed, recommended to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. On the basis and in general, colleagues, and I ask you to pay attention to this. You and I need to relieve entrepreneurs of the fine, improve their work, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, ensure the functioning of this clearly necessary country of the system. The bill agrees with the Ministry of Finance, with the Chief Executive. Therefore, I recommend that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u229	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up. No discussion? No discussion. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and invite the national deputies to the hall. Now let's put it on the ground, and then the second vote. I understand you're supportive, don't you? For reasons like that, Nina Petrovna Jujanina. And let's go to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u230	Dear colleagues, the electronic administration system for fuel and ethyl alcohol is one of the steps that we have been able to take in order to allow the same electronic systems to more effectively administer the payment of taxes and control all flows. But just now, the committee head said that you've introduced a fixed-wing system in the production or use of fuel for airplanes. So you're canceling it right now, and it's just the oval bill that's being removed for one single manufacturer in Ukraine. And you're doing this now under the cover of kind of kind of an improvement that's being done by this bill. In fact, the bill needs to be adopted, but there are two lobbyist norms in this bill. So we need to tell the truth. And let us continue to be honest with one another to the end, not to hide our corrupt schemes, which have just been adopted under the spirit law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise duties) (registration No. 2317). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:02:01]] For 307 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some other legislative acts of Ukraine (to improve the administration of excise duties) (registration No. 2317). In general, are we ready to vote? Well, the whole hall does! [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone's ready to vote, dear colleagues, well, have a conscience. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the Gethmans Danilo Alexanderovich. Turn it on. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u232	Thank you. Dear Nina Petrovno, I urge you to read the text of the law before you say anything and accuse someone of corrupting all schemes. This will greatly help you to get to the bottom of the matter. As for the position of some deputies who do not support the adoption of this law as a whole, I would offer them at their own expense to compensate entrepreneurs who are forced to pay your fine, and then to postpone it for a year, we do not deny it. But do not translate your mistakes into business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u233	There will be no discussion. I'll give it to I know who they mentioned. You weren't mentioned, Irina Volodymyrna. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u234	I speak for the voters of Ukraine, and especially our voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u235	They'll pay fines. Right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u236	But it's not my speech, it's not my fault, it's a committee head who hasn't read any text and is making these statements now. So let him read this text and tell me at the committee meeting that there is no such standard. The two standards that you've set against what's been adopted are all very good. But two standards are corrupt, so don't hide it. If the room is ready to accept, let it accept with two corrupt standards, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u237	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u238	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, it will take a second reading to remove the accusations that are currently being made in the hall. Let's shorten the terms to second reading, but today we're just going to take the first reading and take off the tension in the room. You don't have to make that accusation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u239	Okay, I heard, Ivan Grigorovich, thank you. And then you can raise the hands of people's deputies who think you can't pass this law right now, and let people continue to pay these fines. Raise your hand, please. I'm just trying to make a sound under the transcript. A lot. Tsymbaluk. Cymbaluk? Yeah? A lot. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, then we don't generally vote. No, there won't be any motive. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and preparation for second reading, according to part two of article 116 of the Rules. Bill 2317 registration number. Please support and vote. [[19:05:58]] For 287 Against two, hold on to thirty-one. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 216, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 12, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fatherhood" – 111, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 17, "non-factional" – 18. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been invited to consider the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act "Transitional Provisions" of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Simplification of Pretrial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences" of November 22, 2018, No. 2617-VII (for the limitation of the time of entry into force) (registration No. 2155). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[19:07:07]] For 242 Decision taken. Igor Petrovich, a national deputy of Ukraine, is given the word for the report. Pavlovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u240	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! We had a tough day today, and you've all seen how many complicated drafts we've adopted with you today. I want to make it clear to you that this bill, which is being put forward for your consideration, is very simple. On November 22, 18th, the Supreme Council passed the Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the Simplification of Judicial Investigation of Certain Categories of Criminal Offences. This bill has established a criminal delinquency institute. However, today, unfortunately, it becomes effective, starting to work with it on January 1, 2020. Sadly, today many of our criminal justice agencies have proved unprepared to work with this law. To some extent, there are no appropriate units, unprepared executives, for the implementation of this law. Our bill had the vision of suspending entry into force, that is to make changes to the Transitional Positions, and that this law would become effective one year later, that is, from 2021. However, the committee rightly decided to postpone the bill, to take effect, and to start its work for six months, from July 1, 2020. In view of this, as the author of this bill, I agree with the committee's point of view, and I ask you to support that we postpone it until 1 January. by July 1, 2020. That'll be absolutely right. And this law will then take effect for all the criminal offenses that we are instituting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u241	Thank you. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection of the Monastery’s Denis Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u242	Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, a technical bill that is proposed to defer the validity of the so-called Criminal Offences Act. There was a lot of discussion about him. I think they should continue to improve this law. But now it's very important that by January 1st we cancel this law. And we had a committee hearing. All the law enforcement agencies involved were involved. And we're going to propose a six-month extension, which is until July 1, 2020. I'd like your support, colleagues. The committee asks for support on the basis of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u243	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Would you please tell your esteemed colleagues or do you need a discussion? Yeah? Two in, two in, two in, two in factions. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u244	Please give Irina Heratchenko the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u245	Dear colleagues! Of course, our political power is going to vote in favour of this technical law on the one hand, and on the other hand it requires our support, because there are not adequate systems in law enforcement. But, you know, what's going on in the session room today is a huge disgrace for which it should be primarily embarrassing for the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We just got back from France, from the Monet Dialogues, where European grants. For European grants, they taught the leadership of the Supreme Council to hear opposition, to forget that they represent a certain political power. And when today is so disrespectful of the highest parliament's rostrum, it's like, "Well, everybody's in favor. Who's in the gallery against?" This says, in fact, that the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine still positions himself solely as a representative of one political power. I want to remind you that you are currently representing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if one MP asks him to make amendments, there's no such thing in the Rules -- raise your hand, who's in favour or who's in favour. Enough with the building of pioneer stars and cosmomol cells. There's a regulation that requires that there be amendments here, not these pros and cons, to vote with pens. We're not buttons, we're not pens, we're not fingertips, we're Ukrainian national deputies! That's the first one. The other one. You know, Your Honor, the fact that you're voting today on the laws that we're protecting our esteemed consultants and experts is your mistakes that you've stressed in your neighborhood, putting your consultants at risk, their salaries. And now we're fixing them heroically. And today you are doing the same thing without amendment by voting on the laws, humiliating Nina Petrovna Jujanina, who, you know, is head of the committee. But you'd learn from it because it's a professional obstacle to the lobbying you're trying to make. You listen, she's talking to the "servants" who want the truth. You know what's going on. I want to speak to the Head of the Supreme Council. Stop being the speaker of the greens, stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u246	Thank you. First of all, Irina Volodymyrna, I think you're like an experienced MP. Well, I was definitely not in the pioneer camps, nor in the comsomol, nor in the Company. I think so. I think once again, I think it's worth it under the Rules to speak on the subject of the bill. I don't remember there being any talk in Bill 2155 about a speaker or any other political force. So let's respect each other. Thank you. Krzemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u247	Dear Dmitri Alexanderovich, dear colleagues! Yes, indeed, this bill, the law was passed in November 18th, almost. Not nearly a year ago, more than a year ago. There were representatives of the committee here, they said it was just a technical bill, someone didn't prepare, someone didn't understand, they didn't apologize, they didn't come along. So in Ukraine, we have law enforcement agencies and all the other government laws that we're adopting with you. They didn't understand, you know, a year ago, that we were with you or that the Supreme Council accepted. They did not understand and could not organize the matter. Who didn't do it. The first is the Attorney General's Office, which did not require it. The second is the D.B.I., which is not understood at all and what it is. Because there was a head sitting there, you remember, yes, he doesn't know where to run and what to do and where to write it, where it's designed. And the third is, unfortunately, Kabmin only woke up two weeks ago and realized that it was necessary to make statements or send documents. But between you and me, this is a disgrace to those who have to follow the decisions of our Parliament, because we have a parliamentary-presidential republic. I'll tell you what, there's a bill, it's an example of creating an anti-doping centre in Ukraine for the Olympics. Today, there is a law, and there is no center. Our Olympics all go to Poland, spend money, and make dopings to register with the Olympic teams. Right now, people here don't understand what we're doing and what we're doing. It's wrong, I think we need to make some conclusions. So, Dennis Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u248	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u249	We should, of course, vote in favour, but because of criminal misconduct. You remember that we worked on this bill for three years, and we want to dismantle the investigators. But as our law enforcement officers do, well, it's just embarrassing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u250	Mother Grigory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u251	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very simple things about the fact that this, indeed, bill "The Opposition Platform for Life" will be supported because there is no other way out. Why not? All of the TV screens say the investigators, the law enforcement authorities say the investigation is loaded, but the law enforcement authorities have done absolutely nothing to dismantle it. How should distraction take place? It should take place by creating a new unit of knowledge, a new institution that will take at least 50 percent of the workload of investigators. But when time approached January 1, 2020, no one found another way out and the real reason did not say anything, and they quietly submitted a bill to the Committee on Determining Law, the drafters of the bill forgot to say, first of all, for one year. After that, committee hearings were held, and the decision was taken for six months, but they also clarified the date from 1 / 07 the following year. The real reason is very simple things. In those who have not changed so far, and lack of funding, only in matters of information, or technical, into a single register in pre-trial investigations. But when the law enforcement system didn't work, in order to run this mechanism, this institution, in order to unload the workload of the investigators, no one was responsible for this position in such a violation of the shameful failure to comply with the laws, and no one would answer. We're only going to support this decision to run this institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u252	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? The motives were already your representatives. No, thank you. No, it's not. This is probably not a question of motive, but of your representatives. I'm sorry. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. From the "Serial of the People" faction, is there anyone who will speak? Oh, no? Okay. Please prepare for the vote. And immediately the committee's proposal as a basis and as a whole. Will you be willing to vote in general? Yeah. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, we just spoke. You're going to vote, aren't you? Let's put it as a base. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending Chapter II of the Transitional Regulations of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify the pre-trial investigation of individual categories of criminal offences" of November 22, 2018, No 2617-VIII (to delay the time of entry into force). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:20:11]] For 328 Decision taken. Are you ready to vote in general? Ruslan Petrovich? I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the proposals made by the committee headed by the committee and the necessary technical and legal rights of the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Transitional Regulations of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to simplify the prior investigation of individual categories of criminal offences" of 22 November 2018 No2617-VIII (to delay the time of entry into force) (registration No. 2155). Please support and vote. [[19:21:06]] For 328 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 228, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" – 19, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 14, "The Voice" – 17, "the non-factional – 17. Thanks again. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The next issue is the bill amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts, so-called FATCA (Registration No. 2102). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Mr. But please don't break up, there's only two things that don't count.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u253	Dear colleagues, two related bills are brought before the Supreme Council. These are bills for the ratification of the FATCA Agreement. They provide for automatic exchange of tax information both under the FATCA Agreement and changes to relevant laws of Ukraine relating to the exchange of information under other agreements, such as MCA, CRR. What is it? The point is that Ukraine, as a state, will know everything its residents have abroad, is being buried abroad. And we can make the right decisions about this property and about paying or not paying taxes to residents of Ukraine. On the committee, we have considered this bill and we invite the Supreme Council to accept it in a second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u254	Thank you, Danilo Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I'm sorry. We've got a warrant. Is there a need to pass them now? Is this Bilkovi's paper? Yes, you insist, Olga Valentina? Edit number one, Bilkova. And Amendment 2 is also Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Yeah, well, then let's get together and I'll act together on these two lines. Well, we're actually looking at two very important bills right now. And I point out that the opposition on the first reading insisted that we apply and fulfill our promise. Moreover, my rights were carefully considered, initiated by me on the committee and by the tone of the discussion, I can say that most of my colleagues supported me in my warnings. These warnings apply precisely to the regime that will be used by the government, the government in force by our Ukrainian government, to those accounts, to the information that is today in the so-called intergovernmental agreements. In fact, we went to the point where we agreed that my amendments were not accepted. But I remain in my opinion that the committee should very clearly control, who, how, what contracts will now establish those contracts.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u256	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u257	Those contracts that would actually reveal a curtain over a commercial secret and a bank secret. I don't have accounts in banks abroad. If I do, I will declare them. At the same time, we haven't solved the question of what's going to happen today, what's going to be the use of information for those citizens who already have accounts. We've agreed, in good company with the government, that there will be no severe punishments yet, and everything will go according to the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u258	Thank you, Olga Valentine's Day. Dear colleagues. You don't insist on editing. Right? I'll put it to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting for a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules for the application of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (Registration No. 2102). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:26:20]] For 303 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. Please, by the factions. "Serve of the People" – 226, "Response Platform for Life" – 4, "European Solidarity" – 16, "Fatherhood" – 14, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 17, "non-fractional" – 14. Dear colleagues, the next question is, there aren't many rights here either, please don't break up. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Tax Law on Foreign Accounts (Registration No. 2103). Reported to the Hetmans, Danilo Aleksandrovich, head of the Committee on Financial, Tax, and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u259	Thank you. This bill is related to the previous bill, so I ask that it be supported in a second reading and in general. And the amendments are included in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u260	Dear colleagues, this is where all the paperwork was taken into account. That is why I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts. Ready to vote? Registration number 2103. Ready? Please support and vote. [[19:28:16]] For 302 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" – 224, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 1, "The European Solidarity" – 18, "The Fatherland" – 13, "For the Future" – 15, "The Voice" – 17, "the Non-Factional" – 14. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 07.11.2019 (registration number 1231). A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u261	Dear Mr. Golovo, Honorary Colleagues, on October 17, 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments (registration No. 1231). The President of Ukraine considers the prescribed law to be extremely important and supports the need to carry out the verification of government payments made at the expense of government and local budgets, and the need for mandatory government social and pension insurance funds. At the same time, he cannot sign the bill in view of the differences in existing laws. Yes, this law in particular states in the new edition the second part of article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Burdens, and part seven of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons, Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs and Public Forms. However, these changes have been made without taking into account the changes made to Ukraine Act No. 1409 of 02.10.2019 on amending certain legislative acts to ensure the effectiveness of the institutional mechanism for the prevention of corruption, which has been supplemented by new paragraphs. If the proposed amendments to Law 1231 were to be made, the National Anti-Corruption Agency would be deprived of the right of automatic access to the State Register of Real Property Rights and the Only State Register of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms granted by Law No. 1409. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes in paragraph 1 of paragraph 11 and in paragraph 1 of paragraph 12 of paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section "Towards and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments, the words "absac 2" should be replaced by the words "absac 3". Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u262	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u263	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Committee considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments. The committee examined the validity of the President’s proposals and supported the need for rights. Taking these proposals into account gives the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption of Automated Access to the State Register of Real Estate Rights and the Single State Register of Legal Persons, Business Persons and Public Forms. In keeping with the suggestions supported, the committee approved a comparative table for the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office proposes to take into account the above-mentioned proposals by the President of Ukraine in reviewing the Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments. Taking into account the outcome of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposals of the President of Ukraine and to enact legislation in general, including them. People's deputies would like to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u264	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. The committee heads, please invite the national deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law on the Verification and Monitoring of State Payments, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 07.12. Sorry, 07.11.2019 (registration number 1231). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:33:45]] For 248 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 221, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 0, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 17, "non-fractional" – 8. Thank you. Decision taken. The next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2020 (Registration No. 2364). No discussion. Are you going to report it? First Deputy Head of the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, Irina Miroslavovna. Short, I get it, don't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u265	Honorable National Deputies, the Committee on Humanities and Information Policy, discussed the October 29th draft of the Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilees, and today asks you to vote on the basis as a whole. But what I want to do is, I want to do a voice-stenogram, and I want to dictate more complements to the decision. So we ask in chapter I to add positions: 935 years since the first written reference to the city of Lutsk; 95 years since the establishment of the magazine of foreign literature "The Universe"; 75 years since the founding of the Odessa National Academy of Technical Regulation and Quality; 50 years since the establishment of the State Institute of Technical Problems of Magneticism of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine; 50 years since the founding of the National Academy of Management, Culture and Arts. In chapter II: 230 years since Fedor Simyrenko was born; 7 January – 90 years since Vladimir Denisenko's birth (a film director, a screenwriter, a teacher); 13 January – 120 years from Alexander Kovínka's birth; 5 March – 140 years from the birth of Sergey Bernstein (a scientist, a mathematician, an academic); 8 March – 80 years from the birth of Leonid Osika (a film director, a screenwriter); 22 March – 160 years from the birth of Porfiria Demutsky (a composer, a musician); 24 March – 120 years from the birth of Ivan Kozlovski (an opera singer, a folk artist); 3 May – 120 years from the birth of Milo Jakovchenka (a theatre and a national artist); 6 June – 110 years from the birth of George Karpenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u266	Irina Miroslavna, I'm sorry to interrupt. But please tell me, are you adding a voice right now? Out of voice, sorry, no. We're not going to make any changes out of the voice, with all due respect. We can make one more decision, but I will not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u267	Okay. Then I ask you to vote in favour and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u268	It's in the committee's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u269	In the Committee's editorial work on the basis, complemented and subject to technical law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u270	No, it's not. On the basis and in general. It'll be extra, you'll have to make another decision, we'll vote her in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u271	The point is that we discussed these additions in the working group, and they were approved by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u272	They're not on the committee's decision, unfortunately. There is a determination that is now given to colleagues. We'll vote her. No, I can take it off the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u273	No, we vote in favour, because she's waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u274	Thank you. Let's not discuss this, dear colleagues, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Huh? Then we must now vote in favour of the shortened procedure, because it has been said that no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] If I'm motivated. Dear colleagues, then I ask you to consider this motion for a summary ruling. That's why I'm betting on the vote. It takes 150 votes. Please support and vote. [[19:37:56]] For 276 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then write down those who wish to speak out of factions. I'll be grateful. But you've all signed up. Mayditch Oleg Leonidovich. Is there a Maedic? Don't insist. Okay. Klimpush-Cincadze Ivanna Orestovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u275	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u276	Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u277	Mr. Head, please! Mr. Head, I'm asking your permission. Look, I'm asking you very much, the committee has discussed these amendments, which have now been read by a distinguished first deputy. They're committee, there's a committee head. Let's vote so that we don't waste time on what the committee discussed, all the more, there's no contradiction in committee members between what the honourable report read. And that's not a complicated political issue. These are famous figures.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u278	It's a procedural question, Mikola Leonidovich. And tomorrow, colleagues from both your political power and others will come and say that we can, because we have done so. It's not a rule, you know that's best for me. With all due respect, I'm not going to put any changes to this law out of my voice. That's what I'm talking about. Let's take another decision, vote, quickly fill it in with the questions that are. Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Please turn on the German microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u279	Dear colleagues, as I understand it, there is one point, like the great Jubilee of the Warsaw Treaty of April, next year will be 100 years. So I'd like to know that it's for the Jubilee, that it was for the Pellura treaty with Pilsudsky, which was occupied by the Coast Guard of Ukraine. And then in the Goldenfoot region was occupied, and part of the Left Bank Ukraine was occupied all the way to Irkliyev. What is a Jubilee, what is a holiday date? And for others who don't know the history, I'll remind you: see where the chain bridge is one of the best bridges in Europe, where the left bank and the right bank of Kiev were joined. And it was the Poles who blew it up as they retreated and fled to Warsaw. And so I would like this date not to sound, not to sound like a festival, like a Jubilee. This question is subject to both historical and legal and political assessment. But to carry it as a holiday. We saw this morning when we were greeted, and the people with the flaws that they were. And so I would like this particular Warsaw Treaty, this date, not to be here as a Jubilee as a holiday date. I'd like to delete this data on the Warsaw Treaty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u280	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Yeah. Please turn on the microphone. And, heads of factions, invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u281	The parliamentary group "For the Future" supports the position of the committee and urges everyone to vote in favour. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u282	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole project. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, the rulings are voted on as a basis and as a whole. There'll be a new decree, it's a decree, it's not a law. Order, Nestor Ivanovich, you are a multi-year national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] See, in the Rules, if I am not mistaken, the following is written: yes, the ruling is taken as a basis and in general if no other decision is taken by the Supreme Council. So you're proposing to put another decision to the vote right now. No, look, decisions are taken as a whole. If you insist now, I must put the vote to vote on the basis only in the first reading. Right? How? It's so prescribed that there, I understand what you're doing, Ruslan Petrovich, but no. And the committee is making a proposal to vote in general. And they're going to make a new decision, and they're going to complete these dates, which is the right decision. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole in the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2020 (Registration No. 2364). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[19:44:22]] For 305 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. People's Party - 225, Opposition Platform - Life - 2, European Solidarity - 21, Parenthood - 13, Future - 13, Voice - 16, non-factional - 15. Thank you. Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, preschool and extra-school educational institutions (registration number). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. What's the motive? We'll come right in, I'll give you my word. She, this draft decree requires a vote on inclusion in the agenda. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[19:46:00]] For 306 Decision taken. Nestor Ivanovich, there will be a discussion, you will speak. It is suggested that the ad hoc procedure be followed for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[19:46:29]] For 305 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this decree be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:46:52]] For 285 Nestor Ivanovich is motivated. Wait a minute. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u283	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the question is clear, simple. I offer to consider it without a report or discussion. Put to the vote on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u284	Colleagues, is there a desire to support Nestor Ivanovich Shufrich’s proposal? Yeah. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt an entire draft Decision on the award of the annual Supreme Council Award to teachers of general education, vocational engineering, pre-school and extra-school institutions (registration number 2495). Please support and vote. [[19:48:08]] For 318 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, the final question of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the first steps towards ensuring the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine - the acquisition of full membership of Ukraine in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization" (registration No. 2327). We need to include this draft decree in the agenda of the plenary. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[19:49:01]] For 285 Decision taken. We need to apply the ad hoc procedure to address this issue at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[19:49:28]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[19:49:50]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, perhaps without discussion in general, no? Okay. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy Petra Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u285	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for considering this statement at the proper time when there is only a few hours left before the London meeting. Our statement is an extremely important signal, a signal to Ukrainian society, a signal to our NATO partners and a signal to the Russian Federation. A signal that, both after the parliamentary elections and after the formation of the new Supreme Council, the new government, after the President's election, Ukraine's NATO membership course remains unchanged, is based on the public opinion that most Ukrainian people share these principles, are based on the Constitution of Ukraine, is based on the political will of Parliament, is based on the political will of the President, who has recently stressed the importance of the NATO Membership Action Plan, etc. The question of NATO membership is to unite our hall with you. I'm counting on representatives of all political colors to vote in favour, except in Colorado. The truth is very easy and pleasant. And it is that it is Ukraine’s membership in the Alliance that guarantees security for the Ukrainians and that peace is secure and stable. Because NATO is the most powerful military-political alliance and is the guarantor of peace and security, because in 70 years, the Alliance has not been attacked by any member country. And I am convinced that if we had decided earlier on the issue of Ukrainian membership in the Alliance, Russia would certainly not have attacked Ukraine. The action plan is to be a road map of our reforms. We have to make sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u286	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u287	And this is a pass to this most powerful organization. I am convinced that we will now support the application, and this decision will be fully nationalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u288	Thank you. Heroic glory! The word for the report is given to Ukraine’s national deputy, Montenegro, Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u289	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! As head of the permanent delegation of Ukraine to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to stress first of all that this statement has been adopted taking into account the proposal from the ICC. It was supported by all the members of the committee, and it's focused primarily on reminding our Euro-Atlantic partners of their intentions for PPPs for Ukraine. This statement is intended, first of all, for the parliaments of NATO member states to remind their governments of what has already been announced at the highest level in April 2008, when Ukraine's application for VAT was accepted in NATO and when the ministers of foreign affairs of NATO member states were authorised for further movements. To move towards Euro-Atlantic integration is our common goal and our common goal. First of all, that's what a valid Constitution requires. Secondly, the NATO-led movement will allow us to reform our Armed Forces and make them stronger. And thirdly, this movement is a guarantee that the country's dream of an aggressor who now dreams that Ukraine will be shattered, it will not come true. For this reason, we already have a consensus in society. I would like to stress separately that this statement should not be politicized or used for any of the political actions of its own. I also stress that this is a collective statement to support our government at the London summit. This is a statement-calling our fellow NATO Parliamentarians not to delay considering the issue of VAT for Ukraine. And this is also an application for the continuity of our course towards NATO, which was announced by President Zelenski. The Supreme Council, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u290	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u291	I ask the Supreme Council to demonstrate and support the unity of this issue and the national interests of Ukraine. Ukraine must be in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u292	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues — Is It Needed? It's necessary. Write down who wants to discuss the factions, write down two in favor, two in favor. Then we go to the vote. Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u293	Please give Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u294	I'll start with a very serious subject. So I'd like some attention right now. You know, this morning, me and some of our colleagues started out saying good-bye. Good-bye to a guy who died a few days ago in Donbas. His name is Dennis. He died and we'll take him there. Actually, it's an elite. The elite, not only of the Ukrainian army, but of the elite of Europe, to which the European continent should be proud. And it seems to me that NATO is not yet fully aware of the high price that Ukraine and Ukrainian soldiers pay every day for independence, for the safety of the European continent. And it's very important that we, as Ukraine, as Ukrainian authorities and opposition in one voice, be reminded of that. We're actually looking at the Peter Dustenk initiative and the European Solidarity initiative today. But we are very grateful to all colleagues in the session room that we are voting on this statement today, when there is a summit in London, a high-level event, NATO, where there is a foreign minister present, and it is good that he has gone there, and where the position of Ukraine should sound loud. We're not making another application. We have really been waiting so long for 11 years to grant Ukraine the VAT that we are doing with you and in the security sphere, in the sphere of ecology, in the sphere of approaching our standards in the fight against corruption, many of the laws that we have already voted on today's parliament are also the implementation of the VAT. We deserve it. It is therefore very important that we, in one voice, demand that Ukraine obtain a plan of action for NATO membership as well as Georgia. And that will be the guarantee of our security, as will the Ukrainian army. Praise be to every Ukrainian soldier! Praise the women soldiers! And we think that we should get the CDF, and today we should vote in favour of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u295	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk, "Golos".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u296	Dear colleagues, first of all, it's a shame that we don't start our day today at a time when the Foreign Minister is in London and he's the person representing the Ukrainian position today, the previous encounters, during the NATO meeting in London. We should have started our day with this. But it's a good thing we made such an important statement today. And I hope that all of us, regardless of political preferences, will clearly support what the majority of the population of Ukraine today say and what we want to join NATO. What is NATO? NATO is not just a military union. As has been rightly said here, NATO is a military-political union that was first created to protect common values -- values of dignity, values of freedom, what we call Western, including European and North American values. And today, Ukraine has protected these values by its own strength for the fifth year. Not by word, but by deed. We are now, not yet joining NATO, a leading NATO battalion that actually defends those values that unite NATO with arms. And we feel that today we are showing everyone that those values of freedom, dignity and security are not empty words for us. We deserve to be a full member of Euro-Atlantic security. And we deserve to make our position clear today. I'm hoping for the support of the entire room. Thank you. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u297	Thank you. Comer Natalia Igorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u298	Pass the hair, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u299	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u300	The truth was just mentioned in this rostrum, and it was easy and pleasant to speak. And the truth is, five years ago, the previous government, just by covering up an endless discussion about NATO, was actually moving Ukraine away from the same standards of the Alliance. Through the Svinarchuks, looting the Defenseprom through the Svinarchuks, looting the army, spreading corruption in Ukraine, oppressing independent media, suppressing opposition. And the same people today continue to draw the same story for one purpose: to break the peace talks and break the peace process. At first, less than 17 percent of the parties come out here together and talk about some red lines to the President, who received more than 73 percent, from which society today demands one: peace. This is the only signal the Ukrainians are waiting for today. Not the continuation of war, not the involvement of our other partners in the war. And by the way, this signal, you know, is waiting for our European partners. That when Vladimir Zelensky arrived in Paris on December 9, he would talk about peace and talk about ways to achieve peace. And you can apply for anything you want to get the right to a settlement in Mars. This is as realistic today as it is getting NATO membership. Moreover, one of the world’s leaders, Mrs. Merkel, who in 2018 clearly refused a much more important appeal given jointly by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is still chancellor. And since then, the position of Germany has not changed. And the representatives of a particular faction that initiates this, which is very well understood in modern diplomacy, can't help but know that. It's empty populism. The only goal of this is to prevent President Zelenski from achieving peace in Paris on December 9th. And if the President's party is actually a party of the current president, not the previous one, I strongly urge you not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u301	Thank you. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. Batenko Taras Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u302	Dear friends, when we discipline the previous Parliament on the eighth call, we would like to remind you that it is the parliamentarians of the various factions of the previous, eighth parliamentary assembly that have made one of the first decisions to change Ukraine's non-block status in the Constitution and to define the Euro-Atlantic course as an integral part of their international course. At the same time, we are now in solidarity with all the factions who today support this statement, which is important before the London meetings. And I think, my friends, that this statement should have been a month ago when we received a large delegation in this room headed by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg and with all the representatives of NATO countries. It would be more important than ever to emphasize our desire, unaltering desire to go to NATO by getting the Membership Action Plan (FDP). I believe that such a statement is important not only before the London meeting, but it is no less important, but perhaps even more important in the Nordic format in Paris, in order to emphasize to NATO members -- and France, and Germany -- who should protect potential participants in the VAT and NATO members about how we defend our national interests today and how they want to protect our national interests and support our President in these Euro-Atlantic aspirations that we have today. So today's statement is better, you know, now than ever. We vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u303	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, a minute of motivation. Then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Then we go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u304	Dear colleagues, if anyone else does not understand in the world that peace is NATO, look to history. This was understood by all the countries in the Baltic region, by the smallest countries in Europe. Yes, peace today is NATO. And that is why, unfortunately, the only prime minister who signed the statement that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko remains in Ukraine’s NATO Plan of Action. I would like this tradition to continue with this composition of Parliament. And the 3 million signatures that Fatherland has collected to hold a referendum for joining NATO, which was blocked by the previous authorities, that's also the answer. Therefore, the Fatherland will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-03-m1.u305	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the first steps towards ensuring the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine: obtaining full membership of Ukraine in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization" (Registration No. 2327). Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[20:06:02]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have exhausted the order of the afternoon meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you all. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
