ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Are you ready for your registration? So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:02:30.]] 357 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues: Alexander Ivanovich Dubinin, welcome, and Victor Mikolaiovich Ostapchuk. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I would like to inform you that, as stated in public, yesterday the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, signed the Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. And in today's newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" on my orders, the text of the law was published, making it irreversibly valid, my colleague. [[Applause]] The law is published. And it's very symbolic that we passed the law on the Pure Thursday, and it's published on Embroidery Day, and it's also a big symbol, because today, on the third Thursday of May, around the world, they're celebrating Ukrainian embroidery Day. Our Ukrainian embroidery is not just ancient and stylish clothes, it's our national symbol, in which the ancient images and the protections of all Ukrainians are encoded. I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the Ukrainian national deputies, all the Aparata workers, all the Ukrainians and those in Ukraine and abroad, in the various countries that wore embroidery today. The embroidery unites us, we are different, and in this variety we are the only ones. The only ones are strong. With a feast of embroidery, colleagues, you! Hello! Welcome to all Ukrainians all over the world! And I ask for copies of the Voice of Ukraine to be distributed to the people's deputies. It's a historic specialty. And who intends to remember it, you can now get it from the employees of the Apparatus. Colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. As I reported yesterday, we have to finish our consideration of the D.B.I. Act. And then we're going straight to the draft decrees for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to celebrate and to make an oath to the newly elected President of Ukraine. I'm presuming that about 30 minutes on the D.B.I. 20, 25, 30, and then we're going to look at the regulations when there's the highest level of mobilization. I also want to remind you that yesterday we finished the 35th. And I now ask the committee representative to come to the rostrum, we continue to consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (5395-d). So I invite you to the report by Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. And I would like to give you the floor to read the amendment of the 35th author of the Oleni Sotnik Amendment. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Thirty-five axles. We're making changes to the State Bureau of Investigation Act right now, I'm reminding everyone. And we're talking about financial security. In this case, this is an amendment that relates to supplements, particularly premium payments. I'll remind you that as long as we've been discussing the National Police issue, this story has already been violated, and this discussion has been about the fact that the prizes have always been in law enforcement format, not by people's encouragement, but by people's restraint: who work well, who are loyal, who give the prize; who disobeys the orders of the superior commanders and is not loyal, so don't give the bonus. So I think high premium rates are a corrupt component. We have to pay people a decent salary. And in the D.B.I., they're more than worthy. Look, they exceed the average wage several times. So I don't think there should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u3	Please, Mr. Mikola. So the author insists on voting. I'm putting 35 votes on the vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please. [[10:07:48]] For-60 The decision is not taken. 36th, Najem. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we talked about this yesterday, about the scientific payout, but we still have a contradiction in this article. Because part three of article 20 does not provide for the payment of an honorary title. And the supplement for the scientific level, as we said, and my colleague said, and I told the employees of the investigative bodies, especially what is involved in this article, namely the workers involved in the investigative investigation, we find it inappropriate. So I ask you to vote it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u5	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u6	The committee rejected the bill because the payments corresponded to the generally accepted standards of supplementation for all employees of the public authorities. The proper level of pay and social protection for DBD workers is a guarantee of their independence and impartiality in order to reduce corruption risks in their activities. So the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u7	Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. I'll bet you a vote of 36 people's deputies, Najem. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:09:33]] For-52 The decision is not taken. The next one is 37 revisions. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I propose this amendment to exclude from the bill the payment of honorary title and scientific degree. I already explained that logic yesterday, I repeat. There is no relation to the quality of the investigation, the professional functions of investigators, and the operational staff at the State Bureau of Investigation, or the scientific level, or the honorable title. What's more, it's a coalition that you're making with this amendment, because the Cabinet of Ministers does not provide for a question of honor in general. So for anyone else in the other government, the central government will not be in this format, and for the State Bureau of Investigation you do it. What's more, I remind you, today, wages at the State Bureau of Investigation are guaranteed by law far higher than average wages throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u9	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u10	The amendment was rejected by the Committee because the corresponding supplements correspond to the generally accepted standards of supplementation for all employees of the public authorities. Thus, the committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u11	Thank you. I'm betting on the 37th vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote, please. [[10:11:30.]] For-53 The decision is not taken. Next up, 38th. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. Forty lacquers. The author does not insist. 42 axles. The author does not insist. 43rd. Don't insist. 44th. Don't insist. 45th, Mustafa Najem. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, this is about the Disciplinary Commission and the position of the Disciplinary Commission. We suggest, as do other positions, such as the position on the NABA WG, that it be determined on the basis of the standard position of the government. Because right now the norm that's predicted is that the DBR determines exactly the position of the Disciplinary Commission. So we suggest that this also be determined by the standard position already developed by the government. And according to this position, to develop both the Disciplinary Commission and the position on the Disciplinary Commission of the State Bureau of Investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u13	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u14	Dear colleague, I want to tell you that we have studied carefully, the committee has studied the proposal that you have made. But the offer was rejected, as was not justified. Because we just wrote down the subject of the Disciplinary Commission, we wrote it this way. In the second part of article 25, paragraph 2, the words "on the basis of the Default Position on the Disciplinary Commission of the Central Executive Authority approved by the Cabinet of Ministers." So the Cabinet of Ministers approved the default, so we're going back to the norms and standards that the Cabinet of Ministers approved. So I'm counting on the committee to reject this amendment on a reasonable basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u15	So I'm betting on a vote of 45, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:14:02]] For-45 The decision is not taken. So, dear colleagues, I want you to know that there are only two amendments left, and in five or seven minutes, there will be a vote. After considering the rights, I will give the floor to the committee representative of Palamarczuk Mikoli, as well as to the director of the office of Truby Roman Mikhailovich. There will be a vote in five or seven minutes, so I'm asking everyone to come to the decision room in five or seven minutes. It's 46 o'clock, Captain. Please turn on the microphone. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u16	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. This is my last amendment to this bill. Look, history is very interesting, it's actually a phenomenal logic. Disciplinary responsibility, in principle, is nothing more than responsibility for certain misconduct of the same employees of the State Bureau of Investigation. We've already seen some formats, let's say, of the impact of different law enforcement agencies on each other, so I think this is a very relevant issue. How can the head of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, determine the format and order of such disciplinary responsibility? There's the Cabinet of Ministers, there's a typical position, the Cabinet of Ministers has the Central Authority of Executives to approve this position, and it's absolutely objective and uninvolved, and the role of the Head of the State Bureau of Investigation is nothing more than engagement. So I strongly oppose and I think this should be the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u17	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u18	Well, I agree with Elena, Captain, you could have done that, but the committee carefully considered this amendment, as I said, and considered it groundless and rejected it, as it believes that besides the Disciplinary Commission, there is still the Disciplinary Statute. And this proposal was rejected. So please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u19	So I'm putting 46 people's deputies to the vote, Stonik, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:16:40]] For-61 The decision is not taken. 47th. Author Does Not Urge 48th. The author does not insist. 49th. The author does not insist. 50th. The author does not insist. And, colleagues, 51st. The author does not insist. So I want to let you know that we've been looking at all of the rights that have been submitted to this bill, and there's been a discussion, and I hope this discussion will lead us to a positive solution. And now I'm giving you a closing statement first to Palamarczuk Mikoli Petrovich, then to you, Roman Mikhailovich. In five minutes, colleagues, there will be a vote in five minutes. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies to the decision-making room. I now invite you to the closing statement of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Palamarczuk Mikol Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u20	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, a respected colleague whose bill we have just completed, is extremely relevant and necessary not only for the State Bureau of Investigation, but for the entire Ukrainian law enforcement system. The State Bureau of Investigation is a new law enforcement body entrusted with the important task of investigating crimes committed by senior officials of the State and law enforcement officials. The creation of this body was an important step in reforming the old law enforcement system, in discharging obligations to the Council of Europe to depriv the prosecutor’s office of the functions of pretrial investigation, and in establishing a single body to investigate torture. Despite all the talk about the fact that there are no people in the D.B.I., or that it's being destroyed by politicians, I can tell you that the Bureau is working, it's happening. There's been a criminal investigation. With the adoption of this law, it is becoming more effective and stronger. The bill with registration number 5395 is the first step toward this path. Once again, I remind you that the bill deals with a set of legal, organizational and personnel issues that will allow the State Bureau of Investigation to work fully, including the proper position of the project. Establishing a qualification requirement for directors of territorial offices, directors of central apparatus units, and managers of the internal control unit of the DBR. It complements the list of DBR units that have the right to carry out the search and search activities, establishes and approves the text of the oath of the members of the FDR, establishes the special titles of the members of the military and the head of the State Bureau of Investigation. Of course, the bill does not solve all problems. This is why the Committee on Law Enforcement will hold committee hearings this month, May 29th, on the theme "Activities of the State Bureau of Investigation: Status of the State Bureau of Investigation and Compliance with Legislation, Rights and Freedoms of Citizens". As a result of the hearings, we will make recommendations, including legislative proposals for improving the work of this body. Now, honourable colleagues, I ask you all to support the adoption of this bill in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u21	So, colleagues, it's a closing statement, and it's three minutes before the vote. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I see that not all factions are in place. I'm counting on everyone to do the closing act. To conclude now, the director of the State Bureau of Investigation, Truba Roman Mihajlovich, is invited. Three minutes, please. And after that, the decision is made. Please, Mr. Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Speaker, distinguished national MPs, present! symbolically another year, May 17, this session hall voted Bill 5395 in its first reading. It is this bill that improves the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation. This bill did not create any contradictions a year ago. Moreover, all the heads of factions supported the creation of conditions for the formation of the State Bureau of Investigation in the strictest terms. Since then, several attempts have been made during the year to vote and approve the bill in second reading and in general. I hope that today will be the final effective and positive vote. Why is this important? Six months ago, the State Bureau of Investigation, 11,000 criminal investigations, 650 employees of the State Bureau of Investigation, 350 of them investigative officers, but no operatives. Because because of the technical error in the State Bureau of Investigation Act, we can't assign a competition and conduct appropriate competitions. All criminal investigations are carried out by other law enforcement officials, with most of the criminal conduct being investigated by the DBD touching these operatives of other law enforcement agencies. I mean, de jure we have operational units because this is provided for in the law, we can't actually announce the competition and assign these employees to positions. Bill 5395-d corrects this error. And if you vote for this bill today, you will solve the legal node. Within a few months, there will be competitions, but most importantly, we will have our own operatives. That's why I'm asking to vote in favour of Bill 5395. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome everyone with the embroidery day. I ask not only to support Ukraine's cultural heritage, but also our future, the formation of a modern, independent law enforcement body, the State Bureau of Investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Roman. I'm sure the entire Supreme Council Hall will support the D.B.I. and support this legislative initiative. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, it's a holiday, but we have to work. Please return to your workplace and take up your jobs. We're moving on to making a decision. We finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone who's in the towers right now who's leading the debate to come back to work, prepare for the vote. Boys, get back out of bed, you can't make it. So, can we vote? Attention! Colleagues, we've been going over this bill for a long time, I'm sure we're now going to support it unanimously, we're going to vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (No. 5395-d) on second reading and in general with technical law. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We support the D.B.I., we support the bill, we vote in general. Please support, please vote, vote. [[10:25:37]] For 277 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Congratulations, Mr. Roman, on your way! I welcome all the national deputies who were involved in the drafting of this law, you, Mr. Mikolo Palamarczuk. We walked for a long time, but we were able to accept him today. So the law was passed. My colleagues, I'd like to tell you about the next order of work. The first is a decree to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the taking of an oath by the Ukrainian people to the newly elected President of Ukraine. There are seven decrees together, but two of them have one author. That's why the discussion will be as follows: first the speech of all the authors of the rulings, then the speech of the committee, then the discussion of "two in favour, two in opposition," and then the vote. I'm going to suggest that we consider a reduced procedure. I'll recommend it in a nutshell. I want to remind you that we have something else. So, colleagues, after that, I want to remind you, we have two bills for reforming Parliament. I'm counting on the general support of all those who participated in the Monet Dialogues. Then we'll put the daily bills in order, and hopefully we'll be able to do it in 12 hours. So, colleagues, we're going to look at the regulations: 10270, as well as 10270-1, -2, -3, -5, -6, -7. And I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[10:28:11]] For 214 Decision taken. And now I'm going to give the authors orders in the order that the decrees have been registered. Thus, the National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich is the first to be invited to speak. Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainians, today in Parliament, a draft decree that supported the whole of Ukraine from east to west, from north to south, a decree on the appointment of the inauguration of the newly elected President. Today, the whole world is looking at how Ukraine is implementing this result of these elections -- elections recognized throughout the civilized world. This is our maturity test. There are hundreds of reasons why it is vital for us to adopt this decision today. The first item is that millions of people are waiting for it. The second item is that our international partners are waiting for it too. Thirdly, we need unity, not strife. But what unity can be discussed when this parliament begins to oppose even the inauguration date? Is such a parliament needed then? And it's not yet that the President has passed a package of laws that millions of Ukrainians are waiting for. Everyone's already had that bite. The fourth is the law and the Rules, article 165 of the Rules: "The date and time of the ceremony of the Supreme Council agrees with the newly elected President of Ukraine." Parliament has always followed this standard. The newly elected president agreed on the date – May 19 at 11 p.m. So please change the time in my decision from 10 to 11. There are now various reasons why not vote. The 19th is the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Political Repression, and it is on this day that it symbolically leads to the oath of the President of an independent Ukraine, the President who united the country, because it is for the right to live on his land and freely choose Ukrainian power that millions of heroes fought for. And I am convinced that the newly elected President will bow his head on this day before the memorial of the victims of the repression in Bykown. And he will remember for life this day, as well as the responsibility that lies before the past, present, and future. Now it's a choice for every deputy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u25	The country’s national deputy, Baloga Viktor Ivanovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u26	Dear friends, well, I think there'll be a consensus in this room today, because those draft decrees that are registered here, they all take into account the position of the newly elected President to vote in favour of 19.05. So I have nothing to add. And I hope that one of the decrees will win the required number of votes for us to conduct the inauguration of the newly elected President on Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u27	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kupriy Vitaly Mikolayovich, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u28	Vitaly Cupray, non-fractional, unparty. Dear colleagues, a respected Ukrainian society, now we have a decisive day, we can quickly help our newly elected President Greene change our system. Let's face it, we all realize that every day our country is completely robbed. My estimate is that more than one billion dollars are owned by the authorities, including those in this hall sitting in the rostrum. And these are all the corrupt customs equipment, offshore fraud, state-owned enterprises, out on the tender, we see it all. Every day is very important for our country to give us the opportunity to breathe in a new way, but not everyone likes it, because behind me is a man, an honest liar who promised the newly elected President of Greens that the 14th will be voted and set the date of inauguration. At nine o’clock in the morning, the regulatory committee could meet, and we could vote at lunchtime. Why all the stalling? Why this whole circus? And we understand that. They steal godlessly, they want to remain in office and, God forbid, give the President the opportunity to suspend this Supreme Council for the term. Let's be honest: what have we done for the country, apart from certain directions that don't apply to human life, to improving the fight against corruption? We didn't do anything. I think if we don't vote now for what President Zelensky requires -- 19 -- we're all going to have a really bad time. The third Majdan may come, and we will be very uncomfortable. We'll all be responsible for what we're doing now. We vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u29	The National Deputy of Ukraine, Kaplin Sergey Mikolayovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u30	Dear compatriots, my determination is that the inauguration of the President, the new President, will take place in 19 numbers. Considering that foreign government officials, diplomats are willing to be present for the opening of a new political era in Ukraine, we have to take the second stage in the Palace of Ukraine or at the Olympic Stadium. After that, as soon as Zelensky enters his constitutional rights, he has to dissolve Parliament, which is primarily a requirement of the Ukrainian people. Releasing because trust in the Ukrainian Parliament is no more than 2 percent. Dissolve, for 79 percent of Ukrainians have found themselves outside the poverty line as a result of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. To dissolve, because the results of the work of the Ukrainian Parliament and the governments that the Ukrainian Parliament has chosen, we have the lowest pension in Europe, we have the lowest salary in Europe. We've cut practically two times the number of people who have the right to receive subsidies. Dissolve because it was because of the criminal, unprofessional activity of the Ukrainian Parliament that 12 million Ukrainians went abroad to work. To dissolve because it was the Ukrainian Parliament and the government that elected the Ukrainian Parliament that increased the tariffs by almost 500 percent for ordinary Ukrainians. Dissolve because it's one of the worst Ukrainian parliaments. And the last. It is said that it is virtually impossible to do so. Three years ago, Alexander Sugonako and I filed an application for an exit from the BBC faction and the European Ukraine coalition. We were in the courts, played the courts, but the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine didn't do it. I'm saying we don't have a coalition today. And in support of this, I will resubmit to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once again, an application for withdrawal from the coalition and the BPT. You, Zelenski, have the right to dissolve the Ukrainian Parliament immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u31	The National Deputy of the Ukraine of Kurenje Vodimir Kostinović is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u32	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm presenting a project that's being proposed to hold a special meeting to bring the newly elected President to work on May 17th. We've all heard many times from the newly elected president's team that we need to give Bulava to the President as soon as possible in order to start his historic mission. So I'm proposing a parliamentary meeting on May 17th, because in fact, on May 17th, no one from serious international delegations. Well, it'll be hard to get to the inauguration. So it's likely that the current president's team isn't going through a lot about that. So I think we can do an inauguration in accordance with the demands of the newly elected President, who wants to take office more quickly on May 17th. And that'll be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u33	Done? Thank you. And a closing statement from the authors. National Deputy Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the day of the Ukrainian embroidery. This is, compared to Ukrainian, the same genetic code that we're proud of, and you look lovely today. Keep this mood, we're gonna need it. As for the determination and the inauguration, I want to point out the following. Our principle position was not to combine incompatible things -- to inaugurate on the day that we took a decision in this Parliament when we recognized the date of May 18 as the date of the genocide of the Crimean Tatar people who suffered from the Soviet regime. So the next day, May 19, is the third week of May in which we have the Day of Respect for the Memory of Victims of Political Repression. Again, the totalitarian Soviet regime destroyed hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. We cannot associate in the days when we honor the memory of hundreds of thousands of hardworking Ukrainians with the celebrations dedicated to the inauguration of the President. Parliament is a place for discussion. And as a result of the discussion, a compromise decision was found that it would be the next day on May 20 when national MPs were ready to cast their votes on the day of the inauguration. This is a compromise for the People's Front. And we agree that the 20th is the right date to make the inauguration possible. And that's why the 28th is losing its position, the date. So I recall my decision and I propose to vote in favour of the 20th in order to vote and move on. We've got a big agenda to work out. Our Parliament has been working for five years, and we have to prove that we are the most effective Parliament of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u35	So I invite you to address the first deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues, I need to report very concisely on the Committee's 7 rulings. I don't think I'll be able to do that in two minutes, so please give me some time, if necessary. So on May 15, our committee considered the appropriate formulation and registration of the requirements of the law, the Rules and the draft regulations adopted by them by the Supreme Council No. 10270, No. 10270-1. The first is the authorship of the Mishchenka People's Deputy. The second is under the authority of the national deputy Baloga Viktor Ivanovich. Bills introduced by the people’s deputy Kupriy: 10270-2 and 10270-5. Bill 10270-3, introduced by the People's Deputy Kaplan. Bill 10270-6 was introduced by the people's deputy Kurenn; and 10270-7 was introduced by the people's deputy Teteruk. They all have one subject and relate to the dates, places, times, arrangements for the holding of the ceremony to swear to the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President of Ukraine, Zelenski Volodymyr Alexanderovich. The Committee noted that the question of holding a meeting of the Supreme Council on the taking of an oath by the Ukrainian people to the newly elected President does not belong to the subject of our committee, although, contrary to the objects of dedication, for reasons unknown to us, our committee was recognized as the main in the preparation and preliminary consideration of these draft regulations. In previous calls, particularly in 99th year, in 2004, these issues were referred to the subject of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government. Starting with the eighth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they are part of the commission on legal policy and justice. At the same time, taking into account the importance of the issue, as well as the letters of the newly elected President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u37	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u38	Taking into account the importance of the matter and the letters of the newly elected President of Ukraine to the Head of the Supreme Council of Paris and to our committee, with the proposal to hold a solemn meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 May, the Committee considered draft regulations and, in accordance with the provisions of part four of article 93 of the Rules, assessed them as appropriate to register them with the requirements of the law, regulations and legal acts adopted in accordance with them. In his conclusions, the Committee noted that all draft regulations were signed by those who had the right to legislative initiative and the place for holding a solemn meeting in those decrees, as proposed under articles 164-165 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Next. The committee also drew attention to what was proposed in the draft decree No. 10270-3, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Kaplin Sergey, to a solemn meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u39	He's still asking the committee for a minute. I think we'll give it to you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u40	in two stages (19 May) in the Supreme Council session hall, and the second, on 3 June 19th at the National Olympic Sports Complex, in different places, are not in line with the provisions of articles 164, 165 and 166 of the Supreme Council Rules, which provide for a place, a date, an order for the Supreme Council to hold a solemn meeting on the basis of the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian people to the newly elected President. The committee also noted that two draft regulations (registrations 10270-6 and 10270-7) were scheduled for a special meeting on May 17 and May 28 of this year. And according to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of 20.12.18, these days are reserved for plenary sessions. Then, another additional decision on a one - time shift in the work of the Supreme Council is needed to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council on such days. The committee's also attracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u41	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u42	Also draws the attention of the deputies to the fact that, according to the provisions of part three of article 138 of the Rules, the regulations and other acts of the Supreme Council shall be adopted in compliance with the procedure envisaged for the consideration of draft laws in the first reading, with the adoption of them as a whole, unless otherwise decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee also believes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be determined by vote and by the adoption or rejection of the aforementioned draft regulations, each individually. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Now please record from the factions. I'm going to give the factions a word to all factions, not even anyone. Please, two for, two for. Please. From Peter Poshenko Block to Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Passes it to Kishkar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, in fact, choosing between form and content, the Ukrainian people are still looking for meaning. And the content of reforming the country, the continuation of the reforms that have begun, is specific bills or initiatives. We have heard many times and will hear more about the change in electoral legislation, the creation, at last, of full legislation that would define the institution of parliamentary control, the prohibition of political advertising, the Ukrainian Law on the impeachment of the President. I think all of these initiatives, which are the content of the work of any executive branch and the presidential branch of this executive branch, including, are awaiting consideration by the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian Parliament. In fact, we have not seen any such initiatives. So today's vote is just a vote for form, and by content, we expect those initiatives, particularly those of the staff that will be generated by the new president's team. The success of the state is the success of the President of Ukraine. I think we all have to join the successful, correct, useful initiatives of the newly elected President. If there is such a power, if there is a desire to make draft laws, I am ready to sign them tomorrow. Let's take them into consideration, let's sound and make decisions about the personnel assignments. I think this Parliament is ready to deal with this task.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u45	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u46	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. This action, which is now taking place in Parliament, it looks so humiliating. On April 21, 73 percent of Ukrainians came, voted against Dustenk. What would normal authorities do if they respected the will of millions of Ukrainians? First of all, an organizational committee should be set up to hold an inauguration ceremony at the highest level. Instead, 20 rulings are registered in Parliament. It's as if it's not an inauguration, which is once every five years, but a passing bill or a passing yard. This action humiliates us, Ukrainians, in front of the whole country. And so I think, first of all, if I were to talk about the day of the inauguration, I think today would be a great day for the inauguration: A day of embroidery, a beautiful country, beautiful people in embroidery. And so that the whole country can see our beauty, our love and our best country, so that the whole world can see. If it has already happened that the President insists, the newly elected, on May 19th, we don't understand where this insistence is coming from? May 19 is the Day of Repression. There's a candle in the corner of every TV, a black mural tape, and it's a very bad symbol. Before Yanukovic, the crowns fell, before the dusty, soldiers fell, and when Zelensky wanted to take the inauguration with the tape. It doesn't really matter what date of inauguration we're going to vote for any date so that the President-elect can get his license as soon as possible and be able to implement his program. It's important what the new president will do. Restoring peace, restoring the economy, overcoming poverty -- that's what Ukrainians expect from Greensky and his work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u47	A letter came to me from the Opposition Block asking me to give the word to Novinsky Vadim. Please, Mr. Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u48	Dear people of Ukraine, dear colleagues! Our voters expect us to finally start working, not on former President's ratings, who lost the election, not on the preferences of so-called strategic partners, but on the interests of Ukrainian citizens. Political reconciliation and the beginning of work are awaited by the disillusioned politicians and authorities, who have said 73 percent of their "no" for five years of poverty, war and injustice. That's why the Opposition Block calls on all the political forces of Parliament to find compromise, to set an inauguration date, and to lead to the oath of the newly elected President. I urge the newly elected President to be more respectful of state institutions and to choose more closely the formulation of references to the highest legislative body. The first person of the State is worthy to give up trying to create an enemy from the Supreme Council. I call on Parliament to mention the essence of the representative mandate. We are only representatives of the people, and his will is already expressed in direct elections, so we are obliged to do so. We all have to demonstrate our willingness to work together, determine the date of the oath and unlock the work of all the institutions of the state. The Opole faction will vote in favour of all the decrees starting on May 19th, calling on everyone to be wise, considerate and responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u49	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party to the word, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, it is very interesting to listen to the speeches of all colleagues. We can thank you for having done the work, made the decision, and registered. I want everyone back to the law. There's the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law, article 165, states the most important thing that everyone does not want to talk about here and someone does not want to hear. I want to say that article 165, which speaks of the date and time of the High Council’s meeting, says that it is necessary to agree with the date and time of the newly elected President. A letter came to the Supreme Council from the newly elected President that he agreed on the date of May 19 at 11 in the morning of the meeting of the Supreme Council. All the other dates, all the other time, disagree with the candidate with the new president. This means that if the Supreme Council approves a different time, you place a mine at the beginning of the work of the newly elected President, chosen by 73 percent of the population. Why does the Supreme Council want to lose face permanently, I don't understand. Think about what you are about to do. And you don't have to talk about whether it's a holiday or a mourning, it's our job to act by law and do your job. If anyone doesn't like the President, go to the election next time, vote for someone else. But now the Supreme Council must act under the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Now, which of the factions hasn't performed yet? Self-help, Oleg Barresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u52	Ladies and gentlemen! People elected a new president, and they voted against fraud, lies, fraud, and they did it knowingly. Today the President-elect says that I want to take responsibility, I want to take responsibility and bear it before my electorate and the Ukrainian people. The Supreme Council should simply perform a mechanical function if the Supreme Council supports honesty and responsibility. When we vote in favour of the President-elect on May 19th, we say take responsibility, take responsibility. When it comes to a scary date, it's to remember the victims of totalitarian regimes. If the newly elected President swears to God and to the people to be faithful on the day of the memory of those who died for the will of the Ukrainian people, it is not simply karma, it is actually a matrix that bears even greater responsibility, and he, as the newly elected President, assumes this responsibility. With God! The Self-Help Unit will vote in May 19th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u53	From the "Fatherland" faction to the word, John Krulko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Today, Parliament is considering, it would seem, not such a difficult question, to determine the day of the commemorative session, when the newly elected President, who voted in favour of more than 73 per cent in the second round, would swear allegiance to Ukraine. Seven decrees are made regarding the determination of one day when the inauguration day will take place! Please tell me, does this grace Parliament that even in such a simple matter as the day of the inauguration, it has not been possible to determine one date that is agreed, as stated in the Supreme Council Rules, with the newly elected President, and to hold a solemn meeting here to witness to the entire country and the world that, after the election of the President, Ukrainian politicians are able to unite? Is it enough to play disunity? The new president has not yet started his work, but they are already trying to put sticks in the wheels, including by determining the day of the inauguration. Tell me, does this unite the country? Does that make us stronger? Let us yet, perhaps, not broadcast this day as some want to humiliate Ukraine even more! The Fatherland faction insists, and our leader, Yulia Timoshenko, made this clear: the sooner the inauguration takes place, the better for the country, the less there will be incomprehensible assignments, the less there will be incomprehensible rewards. We now need to make changes as quickly as possible. The time for change has come, they need to be put into practice, they need to be changed. A new law should be passed on the election of national deputies, no matter when the election of national deputies is held. You have to cancel the corruption component, which is major. A law on proportional choices, open lists, should be adopted so that everyone can clearly understand who he is voting for, and then the country will be treated differently. And finally, we need to increase trust in institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u55	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u56	And trust in the institutions of power is not based on subterfuge games for the oligarchs. Trust in the country is based on when each MP, understanding his responsibility to the people, makes the decisions that make our country stronger. That's why Fatherland is going to vote for 19 numbers. If that date doesn't pass, we're going to vote on that date that will be the closest date to begin the inauguration of the President of Ukraine as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Yes, from the People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I want us here to satisfy our passions and finally listen to each other. The People's Front, on the other hand, claims that the decision on the inauguration of May 19 is wrong. It is difficult for us to understand why some deputies wanted to hold an event on the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression, on the day of mourning. On this day, we mention all the Ukrainians who died at the hands of the occupying Bolshevik regime, each year on this day we all show them our respect. The People's Front will not vote for the inauguration of the newly elected President on May 19th. At the same time, I want to state that the People's Front faction will support the inauguration decree on May 20th. We are in favour of having Vladimir Zelensky take up his duties as soon as possible, but against his inauguration starting on the day of national mourning. So we vote in May 20th, the People's Front supports this date. Ukraine’s new pages of history need to start with bright dates, not with mourning days, hear this! I also want to support my colleague from the People's Front, Andria Teteruka, who called off the draft of his decision to hold a solemn meeting to take an oath by the newly elected President on May 28. Let's vote for May 20, let's unify the hall! And now the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine must continue to move the country forward, they must continue the reforms that we have started since the 14th year and for all five years here we are all implementing them. Therefore, dear colleagues, let us unite around May 20 and vote. Hear me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u59	Thank you. So, colleagues, in a few minutes, five votes will take place. Ever since the BP of Oxana, Bilozer. And please invite all the deputies to the hall. The vote will take place in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians all over the world! Today Parliament will make its decision, today Parliament will determine the date, but what question? May 19 is the Day of Remembrance of Victims of Political Repression. My father is a prisoner of the Stalin camps. And when I asked him, "Dad, why are you different than all the people who live, why am I the daughter of an enemy of the people?".. He said to me, "Oxano, Dona, you'll grow up, you'll understand. But I'll tell you one thing, if we didn't die then we'd be dead like Ukraine." If those people had not died if they had not raised a high and proud flag in the name of Ukraine and our national flag, we would not have Ukraine today, and there would be no Ukrainian people today! In Bykown, May 19 of Ukraine, our Ukrainians will gather mass to honor the memory of the oppressed and the shot. For the Great Terror of Purgatory did great things for the Ukrainians. And in Bullock, the whole world of Ukrainian flowers, intelligence, this day more than six hundred people were shot. On May 19, of the 11th hour, they will be holding a solemn march from all over Ukraine. They'll be holding a rally, they'll be honoring, they'll light candles. Friends, Ukrainians, I don't believe I don't want to believe that this patriotic Ukrainian Parliament can press a 19-number button! Have God in Your Heart! To Ukrainians all over the world, pray for this moment today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u61	Thank you. So, colleagues, in two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking you all to come to the hall. I ask all the heads of factions to assemble the national deputies. I now give my word at the request of Yuri Suhevich. Two minutes to vote. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues. Careful who's in the couches, who's in the beds, I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. Two minutes to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council, I appeal to you. I know that some people can't wait, can't wait to have an inauguration. And they don't think that one day or two days won't change anything to spend with them. But you think that the 18th Day of the deportation of Crimean Tatars is the 19th Day of the memory of the victims of Bolshevik terror. And such an insistence on this date that, at the assumed national yellow and blue flag with the black tape, do the inaugural? Is it not symbolical to dance, to mock the memory and bones of those martyrs lying in the bullocks and hundreds and thousands of graves? Isn't that a rematch, an ideological rematch? Yes. Is that what you want? You want to embarrass yourself? Shame on you, but bear in mind, you won't forget that. The Ukrainian people will not forget that either. Glory to Ukraine! The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u63	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. Please listen to me carefully, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Yuri. [[Applause]] We will honor Mr. Yuri, who is both a political prisoner and who has proved in his life that he has a mandate of trust, not a xiva, as some say, but a mandate of popular trust in his life, his struggle for many years. Thank you, Mr. Yuri, for your position. So, colleagues, I'm going to emphasize how I'm going to put this to a vote. Attention! Colleagues, there's going to be a vote now, so it's important that you know what you're voting for. I'm going to make every decision as it was made, but I'm going to add an appendix to every regulation that the Regulatory Committee has pointed out. So after each decision, I'm going to give the words "taking into account the corresponding changes to the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" so that we can simultaneously change the calendar plan immediately. I'll call each decision separately, its author and the date so that no one makes a mistake. So, colleagues. Date and time. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. The first draft of the decree is 10270. 10270 predicts May 19th. Whoever supports this decision at 10 a.m., please vote with due regard for the relevant changes to the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 11 years! 11th! 11 o'clock, as the author said. So on May 19, 11, Sergey Mishchenko is the author. Taking into account the relevant changes to the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:08:09]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The following project: Decision 10270-1, author of Baloga, also May 19th. And I also stress that taking into account the corresponding changes to the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Who supports the decree. 10th. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Ten years. 10270-1, Baloga Viktor Ivanovich, May 19th. I was just saying, May 19th. You listen carefully! Please vote who supports it. [[11:08:54]] For 158. Taking into account the relevant changes to the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It didn't. Next up, 10270-2. This is the draft of the decree: May 20th, the author of Kupri Vitaly Mikolaiovich is the head of the Interfractional Association for Zelenski. And here's the date: 10 a.m. May 20th. It's May 20th, 10 a.m. Please vote on who supports this decision. [[11:09:37]] For 315 Constitutional majority. So we've adopted Project Rule 10270-2. This is May 20, 10 a.m., taking into account the corresponding changes to the calendar work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I stressed that we will vote all the decisions, taking into account the corresponding changes to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we made the right changes, and we made the decision to hold a ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation of an oath to the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President of Ukraine, Zelenski, on May 20, at 10 a.m. And I ask the apparatus to prepare an appropriate decision taking into account the relevant changes to the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And according to the following rulings, I can no longer put to the vote, since this decision was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask you, colleagues, to point out that we now have two laws on parliamentary reform. And, colleagues, I want to point out that we've all been consulting. I ask everyone to unite and support them now – this is our commitment to the European Parliament. And all the factions' heads are co-authors of those decrees. That's why I'm asking my colleagues to be in the hall. Our work continues. And we're moving on to draft Law 6256. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u64	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On April 5, 18th, the Supreme Council adopted a draft law (registration 6256) amending the laws of Ukraine on committees and on central executive authorities. The committee was tasked with drafting a bill taking into account comments and suggestions and submitting it to the Supreme Council’s second reading. In preparation for the second reading, 58 suggestions and amendments were made. Of these, 46 are included in the comparative table. 12 proposals are not included in the comparative table, since they were made without complying with the requirements of Article 116 of the Rules and proposed amendments to other laws. The committee dealt with all legislative proposals, amendments, and according to the project’s content, the aim of the project was to optimize the work of the Parliamentary Committees of the Supreme Council. Instead, if 20 committees are formed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee believes that the effectiveness of their work can be questioned, since more than 30 national deputies can be elected as individual committees, and thus questions will be raised about the organization of committee work, their responsibilities in holding meetings, and so on. The Committee also considers it unreasonable to define the list and the names of the committees by the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, including their names, objects of knowledge and the number to be consistent with the spheres of activity of ministries. At the same time, the committee notes. noted that article 113 of the Constitution provides that Kabmin is accountable to the President and the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council under control and accountable. In addition, in accordance with article 16 of the Rules, committees are formed at the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council and, in turn, the Kabin forms a mandate for the newly elected Supreme Council, and the formation is not at the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, and the fact that most of the proposals are aimed at preserving us and the subjects of the Committees' knowledge, which are created by the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council of Ukraine, separate proposals provide for the exclusion of provisions on the relationship between us and the subjects of the Committees with the spheres of activity of ministries. At the same time, other proposals suggest that the relationship between the spheres of activity be broadened not only by ministries but also by other central executive or state bodies with constitutional status, most of the proposals being mutually exclusive. In view of this, the Committee decided to reject all proposals and amendments to draft Law 6256 and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 5 of the first part of Article 123 of the Rules, that it should be returned to the Main Committee for further consideration in the second reading of the draft. The Committee points out that, according to the second part of article 120 and part of article 121 of the Rules, under the insistence of the subject of the legislative initiative, the motion or amendment rejected by the committee may be discussed and voted upon if such deputies of amendments insist. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u65	Thank you, Mr. Paul. And I have a request, colleagues, to keep my distance. I ask everyone, especially those who participated in the program, to ask the deputies not to part. Now we're going to the right-hand side, and I'm going to read the negatives. 1st. Don't insist. 2nd. Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. So, colleagues, I have a question, is there anyone who insists on law enforcement? Is that right? Turn on the Oleni Sotnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm surprised the deputies aren't listening to what we're talking about right now. It will depend on this direction in the next call to Parliament, if you plan, of course, how the committees will work, how many of them will be, and what objects of knowledge will be. You all fight for participation in committees, especially where there is a budget, and where there are financial flows. Please, colleagues, this is a very serious question! Now you're going to disobey, and then either you support or you won't back up, and you're going to grab your head. I want to say that in the working group we discussed a lot of this, but my position is unchanged. We cannot attach ourselves to the names of ministries and to specific existing ministries today. We can only determine the maximum number of committees and write that this maximum number of committees should correspond to the areas of those ministries that are in the government of Ukraine. So it can change, it's a fleeting story, it could be new ministries or it could disappear. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u67	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u68	Thank you. We're a parliamentary-presidential republic. This means that Parliament is the highest authority. This means that it is not for Parliament to be attached to someone, but, in principle, it is for Parliament to continue to build a hierarchical system of government. So in my amendment, I was just suggesting that no more than 20 committees should be identified and that we attach to those directions that would be in the ministries according to what was already happening there, according to the time when these committees would be formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Helen, I ask you to listen carefully right now, because this is this position that we agreed upon at the time of our first reading. So I'm going to propose that we vote in just 20 committees, without any connection to the government at all. So this position is maximized. It foresees only a limitation on the number of committees without any attachment to any other body. And I'm going to read this before the vote, this is a little amendment, which is going to read 5 articles. In addition, you should have been given these proposals, the apparatus, as my proposals. Please look at the vote, but we have a common total position on this point. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Fellows, when you scream out of place, I just don't hear anything. It doesn't matter what the edit is. I said I'd be on this. I'll give it to you, I'll give it to you. Now I'm going to give Lewchenk first, he's raised the next hand, two minutes, he's got two adjustments. Then I'll give it to you. And then I'm going to give Evtushka. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Turn on the microphone. Two minutes, he's got two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u70	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I insist on my two amendments, 25 and 37, they apply to the same question. It concerns that under no circumstances should the subject of committees be attached to executive power, first. Secondly, I also think that, in fact, limiting the number, hypothetically, of the committees, is illogical. I explain, we have a parliamentary republic. The euphemism of the 'Parliamentary President' exists only because the President is elected in the national elections. And in fact, throughout the entire function, we now have a parliamentary republic -- real power is found in most of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The efforts to blindly copy the Westminster system, even without understanding it, are absurd. In the Westminster system, particularly in Britain, the committees are not regular in law enforcement at all, they exercise control over executive power and are therefore bound directly to ministries. And under every bill in the Westminster system, a separate committee is set up to consider a specific bill. So when there are different smart people trying to monkey on the Westminster system, without even understanding how it works, well, it just causes, excuse me, laughter through tears, actually. So once again, the parliamentary republic. The Supreme Council decides which ministries. Committees in the Supreme Council are engaged in legislative activities. And please tell me, how can a regulatory committee be linked to a ministry, for example? How can the Anti - Corruption Committee be linked to the Ministry? Or the Committee on Information and Communications? These are completely absurd proposals. As for what has now been said, it seems that something else is going to be read on paper. Well, Mr. Head, don't you think it's fantasmagorium that in the bill of amendments to the Rules on Parliament Reform, you're proposing to violate the Rules, the Law of Ukraine on the Rules? You have no right to read anything from the paper right now. These proposals should go to the amendment, these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u71	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u72	These amendments should have been handled by the committee, and that would have been the case. And that's how we get absurd again. So in a bill called "reforming parliament," it's proposed to be adopted in a non-regulatory, illegal way. That's ridiculous! I have a very simple proposal for reform of Parliament. Finally, give the command to enter the sensor button that you can enter into action so that MPs do not click. That would be a good reform of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u73	Once again, I would like to point out that I propose that we vote in general, taking into account only 20 committees, without any government ties. It is a myth that has been spread, and not all have heard it, except without attachment to government. So now. Put it to a vote, right? Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 25. She's been rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:21:37]] For-61 The decision is not taken. And also 37 revisions, because Levchenko was two-way forward. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. The committee turned it down. The committee turned it down. [[11:21:57]] For-50 The decision is not taken. It's 15 to the left. 15th and 17th. So I can figure out who else is. Okay, 15th and 17th, Danchenko, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, Parliamentary-President Republic. First, according to a developed economic strategy for the development of each state, the development of the state is beginning. According to this, committees are formed in parliaments at first, and only then are ministries formed, as is done in all the developed world, that is, everything is done in reverse. What's going on with us? I want to remind you of the NATO requirement. Andrew Volodymyrovich, they're demanding the establishment of a intelligence committee. Where's the intelligence department? What, will there be a ministry like this? The same goes for, you see, the IT and communication sector -- the largest sector that's now growing more and more, and you want to leave the sector without anything, now in this edition without anything. Since your proposal has not yet been voted on, it has not yet been voted on. I want to point out that first we need to get out of the development of the state by creating an economic model, then we have committees in Parliament, and then the executive power, and then we do everything the other way around. That's why we demand that all sectors that are actually developing, that need the support of the Ukrainian Parliament, little, we consider what we need, and we now, with colleagues with all the faction, register the decision to create a ministry of the future, digitisation and innovation. We need to support the development of the State, not some examples of misunderstood brothers. So I'm asking 15 and 17 to support and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u75	Thank you. I'm betting on the 15th vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[11:24:19]] For-54 Decision taken. And 17 revisions, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[11:24:38]] For-48 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I would like to reiterate that the bill does not have a list of committees, there is only a 20. The direction that I'm going to propose is given to you: no attachment to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm going to propose with this right to remove any insinuation on this issue. My colleagues, I'd like to emphasize, now there are two right-wing authors left, two. That means we'll be on the move in three or four minutes. So I'm asking the heads of factions, those on the Monet Dialogues who promised to support the reform of parliament, those who signed their signatures, with whom we've had a huge amount in the working group of debates, invite MPs into the room, and in five minutes we'll move on to the decision-making process. And I, my colleagues, have a request. If we go down now, we'll have to go first. I ask everyone who has been involved in the development of the multi-hour debate to invite the deputies into the hall, and in five minutes we will move on to the decision - making process. Sergey Eutuszek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u76	Eutusek, Fatherland, Plaintish. I immediately want to say that this is not about the names of the committees, and it is not about attachment as a government, about what the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has just been talking about. I want to say that this is just about the number of committees that have to be on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I don't understand, if we are now adopting the law for the next summoning, why were the amendments that I made, such as removing the words "new calling" or the word "person" rejected by the committee? I understand you've turned down, Mr. Reporter, the amendments that have to do with decommissioning, the linkage to the Ministry, or any other process. But what I don't understand is why you rejected the amendments that apply to, for example, article 5, paragraph 1, to rule out the word "new calling" because it is envisaged that this law will take effect from the date of the acquisition of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth vocation, that is, the next vocation. In addition, the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not be related to any ministry, since this is an internal committee that regulates the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its first session, has no more than 20 committees of the Supreme Council, the names and subjects of committee knowledge are usually to be related, do not, more faithfully, relate to the activities of ministries. We will talk about this later, now we are just talking about the number of committees, not tying them to the ministries or to the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u77	You don't insist on voting, do you? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u78	Thank you. I think the 20 committee position is acceptable, and we can vote for it. And the second position is that the attachment to the Cabinet of Ministers is -- I think it's unacceptable. And my amendment number 18 just reinforces this position, because we can't bind the National Bank and the whole area of macroregulation to the Ministry of Finance. Both the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers are just one of the market participants, and the National Bank is actually a mega regulator. So I think we need a position that 20 committees can be in Parliament is acceptable, but without connection to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Colleagues, you don't insist on voting, do you? I'll announce again, I specifically, colleagues, I've made my offer, it's on everyone's desk who's had the opportunity to pick it up, where it's marked out, how the first part of the paper should be displayed, and the second part excluded, without any link to the ministries. That was the arrangement when we accepted the first reading. And according to this position, the proposal is now being made. All I have now is a request, colleagues, to return to the hall. I'm asking everyone who's involved to help me, help me get the deputies to the hall right now, and in a few minutes, we're going to the vote. So I ask everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u80	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, look here, in fact, in this bill, there's a logic that comes from the fact that we live in a parliamentary republic. First, the Supreme Council committees are formed, then the government is formed and the Prime Minister is elected. So let the government agree with the ministries according to how Parliament has defined committees and the direction of their activities. This is the direction that we are building a parliamentary republic. And if committees 20 are not all related to ministries, let the ministries be smaller, let them be 15, 14. I think the Ukrainian people will support fewer ministries and states, let the government work more effectively, and we need to optimize the cost of the state budget to maintain officials. This will be supported by the Ukrainian people, and this will be in line with European practice. So the bill is correct, it needs to be voted on, and it completely fits into the logic that we live in a parliamentary republic. The government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds. Add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u82	Let the government reconcile committees with Parliament, not Parliament, and match their committees according to the direction of the ministries. That's where the correct logic is. That's why "Paternity" is going to support that logic and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u83	Thank you, colleagues. You don't insist on writing. We've discussed all the revisions. So, colleagues. Don't leave the hall, please! My colleagues, I would like to highlight an important detail: this is a bill, both first and second, which envisions and protects the opposition that envisions the structure of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm surprised some opposition representatives are just coming out of the hall. Under it are and are the authors of most of the heads of factions and groups. I'm going to the co-authors right now -- to Wallery, to Jaroslav, to Self-Help, to the Fatherland, to the Radical Party, to the People's Front: invite whoever's not here, to the Hall. To "Peter Dust Block": colleagues, this is our joint effort! Guys, I'm begging you! I can see how few people are. I'm asking everyone to step into the hall and take up jobs. I would like to point out that I will put to the vote in the edition that is given, without any link to the ministries. Well, I see there's not enough people! Colleagues, may we vote? Yeah, I'll read it. Guys, I'm on it. Attention! I'm going to read under the stenogram of the proposal, and they're going to say, "Proposals to draft Law No.6256 (from 28.03. 2017). The title of the law is "The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" on the optimization of the work of committees. Item 2. The text of the law is as follows: "In article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council, the first part of this edition is to be put in the first part." Listen! ".. The Supreme Council of Ukraine creates no more than 20 committees, their names, objects of knowledge, the minimum and maximum number of people's deputies who can form a single committee is determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree, that is, no attachment to government. "(b) exclude part two." That's what I'm saying under the transcript. Thus, this law takes effect from the day the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes office in its ninth vocation. Got it, got it, got it, got it, Is it accepted? Colleagues, there is no link to committees. I'm going to put it to a vote with a proposal that I've heard under the transcript. Helen, I'm going to put to the vote with a proposal that I've made under the transcript. Do not commit fornication, do not commit fornication. I'll put up with this right here. So, can we vote, colleagues? Is it clear that there is no link to committees? Did everyone take it? I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, we're moving on to making decisions, colleagues. For five years, the European Parliament has helped the Ukrainian Supreme Council, and this is one of ours and the work of the commons, but most importantly, it is our common desire, because most of the heads of factions are determined to sign. So, colleagues, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, let's, I'm voting on a bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on optimisation of the work of committees (No.6256) with those rights that I read under the transcript that we've all been handed out and which I've just read under the transcript. I mean, with no connection to the Cabinet of Ministers, but only 20 committees, only 20 committees -- that's what I read under the transcript. On the second reading and in general, please vote, please support me, colleagues. We support, friends, we support, we vote. Every voice matters, colleagues, we support, we support. We support, colleagues, we vote on technical law. Second reading and generally with technical legal remedies. Vote, support! [[11:35:49]] For 178. I'll be back. The factions, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 73, "National Front" – 52, "Resistance Block" – 0, although in the last dialogues you promised support, "self-help" – 7, Radical Party – 15, "Fatherhood" – 10, "will of the people" – 7, Jaroslav. "Rebirth" is 3. You're the co-author of the decision. Postfaction is 11. Colleagues, that's not fair, that's just unfair. We're done here, Alexander, you know. So, colleagues, I'll put you back. If there are no votes, it will be rejected and will no longer stand a chance. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back on now. I want to remind everyone who's been involved in dialogues, our commitments and our agreement in this position. Once again, there is no link to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm voting with those rights. Therefore, do not fool yourself when you say that there is a attachment to Kabmin. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm asking you to come back to work. And I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 6256. Please vote and please support the return. Please vote for the return. Please be supportive. [[11:37:44]] For 193 So, colleagues, I'm going to make the next proposal, but I'm going to read by factions. I'll put the next one on the re-reading committee. Next thing you know, the committee's going to have a second. But I'll read by factions, include by factions. I'll read it. 79 – "Clock of Petra Poshenko", 55 – "National Front", "The Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 12, "Radical Party" – 15, "Fathership" – 11, "Will of the people" – 7, "Rebirth" – 2, "non-fractional" – 12. So I'm going to put to the vote the next sentence -- return to the second reading again. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs so we don't lose the bill as a whole. I am asking you to prepare for the vote and I am putting to the vote a motion to return draft Law 6256 to the committee for a second reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. This is a compromise decision, please support everyone. To the others again. Please vote, please support. [[11:39:01]] For 211 What, though, prevents you from passing the second one on again, why do you object to further work? Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Colleagues, I'll put it back together. Please, I'm asking you to take up your jobs. It's for the second time again. Why would you do that? Colleagues, please come into the hall and take part in the vote. That's what you're doing right now. You're just doing a demonstration on your partners. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to support the committee's proposal. The committee offered to return the second reading. I ask everyone to take part in the vote, please support everyone. First the vote for the return and then the re-vote. So I'm asking everyone to support and I'm asking you to vote for the return to 6256, for the vote again. Please vote, please support. Please be supportive. [[11:40:12]] For 212 I'm going to make the final point, the third time, and all of this is going to be a rejected law. I'll put in a final, third time. I would like to emphasize what they are shouting, according to the Rules, when a person declares that "I have not been able to vote", the chairman has no right but is obliged to put it back. So read the Rules, not shout in the hall. So I'll put the closing, the third time. This is the third time I've voted. Palamarczuk said he couldn't vote, he gave me a signal, I have to put it. I put the motion to return to the vote, return to the vote again (6256). Please support the return. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Vote. People's Front, we vote. Please support the return. Please support everyone. [[11:41:17]] For 214 Colleagues, stop. I thank you all for your support. Thank you all for your many years of work. Don't make me comedian, please! We all agreed a little differently. Everyone for their cooperation. By factions, please include the last vote. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 11, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth is 1, not 3 co-authors. Postfaction is 16. Colleagues, I will, I will personally support Parliament’s reforms, and I will always remember who voted that day after many consultations, I will always remember. All right, I'll put it in closing. I'll make it a final one. Don't leave. Why are you leaving the hall now? Eurointegrators! So I'm closing my proposal to go back to voting for bill 6256. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. [[11:42:59]] For 226 We're back. Now I'm making a proposal to the committee. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everyone please be in the workplace. I'm asking the committee to return the second reading. So I'm putting a motion to the vote -- draft Law 6256 to the committee again, colleagues. It's a compromise. To read 6256 again. Please support everyone, please vote. To the others again. Vote. Every voice. Very carefully, please support me, colleagues. Please back up! Vote! Please back up! Again. [[11:43:49]] For 229 Decision taken. By factions, please, the last vote. It's very sad. Block of Peter Poshenko - 97, National Front - 65, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 14, Radical Party - 17, Fatherland - 9, Will of the People - 8, Rebirth - 3, non-fractional - 16. So, colleagues, with your permission, I'm going to put the next D'Ondt vote. Next is a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the distribution of posts on the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, based on the principle of d’Ondt. Bill discussed a hundred times, 7550. I'm betting on a rating vote. Whoever supports this bill, please support the rating vote. Vote. Ratings. This is a law to protect the opposition. This is a direct defense of the opposition. [[11:44:46]] For-191 Are we coming in or not? It'll be the same story, they say. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, pay attention! I think it's really going to be the same story, we're just going to waste half an hour. And now we can go "inclusion in the agenda of the day session." Thank you very much. We can go now, so I planned, "inclusion in the agenda of the session." So, are the colleagues ready for this chapter? You're ready, aren't you? I'm starting the inclusion section in the agenda of the day session. But before that, colleagues, pay attention! Attention, colleagues! I'm asking everyone to pay attention right now. We have one draft of the Law (1770) on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, prepared by Yuri Suhevich. They have one request: that we simply return him to the committee for further work. He is in the second reading. It's very important for the committee to just get it back. Can we support this right now? Colleagues, this is one vote, there's nothing to consider, right. The committee has only one request to return. Today, everyone applauded Yuri Suhevich. Let's support the committee so they can come back. Agreed, colleagues? Agreed, right? Then I'm betting on a rating vote. It's in our living room. Who's in charge of supporting the proposal: Bill 1170 just go back to the committee? This is true of victims of political repression. This is actually the final law that regulates this sphere, colleagues. It's just the support of people who spent decades in prisons. Let's support it. So I'm betting on a rating vote, a rating vote, a proposal for us to put 1170 back on the committee to work on. And I ask you to return to the hall and support the victims of political repression. Please vote rating. Ratings, please support. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support the rating vote. [[11:47:19]] For 207 What's the matter? Give it to me. Colleagues, pay attention! Come on, I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall who's not here. I ask the government to enter the hall while voting for such bills. Because I'm about to tell you who's standing there. So I'm inviting you. We're going to consider Bill 1170. I invite you to report to Nemira Grigori Mikhailovich. And I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace for this moment. Please, Mr. Gregory. I'd like everyone to be in the workplace in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, a very simple situation, relates to the adoption of a law that conflicts with the law that prepares for the second reading. Both apply to victims of political repression in Ukraine. Two years ago, the Supreme Council adopted, in its first reading, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression. It was about arranging payments to such victims of political repression. This is Law 1170. Then another law, Law 6574, was passed last March. And that's why there's a contradiction right now. In order to eliminate this contradiction, it is proposed that Law No. 1170 be re-readed. This is also supported by the author of this law. On behalf of the committee, please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u85	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Please enter the hall, colleagues, and be in the workplace during such a responsible vote. Please get everyone mobilized, be in the workplace. So I'm voting on the proposal that the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine (No. 1170) should be returned to read again so that the committee can work on it and support the victims of political repression. So, please support, please vote, colleagues, every vote matters, carefully and responsibly I ask everyone to vote. Every voice. Voting and supporting. Vote, colleagues, support. [[11:50:07]] For 223 We didn't make it. Krivenko didn't make it, he gave me a signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u86	I'm home!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u87	You're here, aren't you? So I'm betting on the return, and then again. So, colleagues, take up jobs. You saw three votes. Because I'm going to be focusing on factions. For some reason, when it came to inauguration, there was a full hall, and when it came to victims of political repression, somehow everyone disappeared. So, colleagues, I'm going to make the first offer -- to come back, and the second time I'm going to make this proposal. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 1170. Please vote, please support. Vote. Every voice. Vote. [[11:51:06]] For 234 We're back. Now I'm putting draft Law 1170, a committee proposal, back to second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing up the second. Patriots, we vote. [[11:51:31]] For 229 Decision taken. Hello, Mr. Yuri. And now we're moving on to the law of inclusion in the agenda of the day session. They were all published. You have every one of them on your hands. And I, my colleagues, will pass, I'll call it the name and then the vote. The first is 10279: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on the settlement of chaplain activities in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other legislation-based military formations. So these are the chaplains, they didn't get a few votes last time. Please include the agenda of the day session for the decision-making process. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Vote. [[11:52:40]] For-174 174. The following is 10181: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation (for military service and military service). It's a request from the Ministry of Defense, from soldiers, a colleague. 10181 is just an order of names. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to support 10181 -- getting into the agenda for the decision-making session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:53:25]] For 213 Colleagues, you weren't getting your bearings, it's Nazi law. This is the coordination of names with NATO countries. Why, yeah? Okay. Colleagues, take your seats, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I'm re-voting Law 10181 -- it's an order of military titles. I ask you to support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support. Vote. We will support the reform of the Ukrainian army. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:54:23]] For 217 I'll set up a closing session, colleagues. And I want to stress that this is a bill that envisions reform of the army -- bringing it to NATO standards. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, not to have a vote, but to be in jobs, colleagues. So prepare for the vote. We don't have enough votes. I ask everyone to be in the workplace and vote. And I'm putting a motion to vote: draft Law 10181 include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I ask everyone very carefully and responsibly to support the Ukrainian soldiers and the Ukrainian army. Please vote. Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote. Vote. We're backing it up. [[11:55:39]] For 229 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the implementation of transparency and publicity principles in the area of the formation and implementation of State military and industrial policy (10248). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:56:17]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law on Fundamental Principles of State Agrarian Policy and State Policy for Rural Development (9162). It's just getting into the agenda of the day session. It's just a turn-on. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:56:50]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the extension of the simplified procedure for the reorganization of public and municipal health institutions (9075). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. [[11:57:24]] For-179 Next. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues in the area of housing and utility services (10228). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. [[11:57:52]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The next is 10237 and 10237-1: amendments to the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I ask you to vote, please support, vote. [[11:58:20]] For-182 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting to improve the competition procedure (10268). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, vote. [[11:58:54]] For-189 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the National Budget for Ukraine 2019 on Improving the Status of Roads of the Odessa Region (10226). Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For-167 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law 10231. Who supports the inclusion of the day session, I ask you to vote. [[11:59:54]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Next. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Electricity Market Act (10227 and 10227-1). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I ask you to vote. And I will continue until the conclusion of this section of the meeting. [[12:00:20]] For 199 The decision is not taken. And the final one is the draft of Law 10096. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the demonopolization and development of space activities. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. And making a decision. Please vote. [[12:00:51]] For 209 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, don't shout! Attention! I'm going to put in yesterday's draft decision, Litwin. Overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Community in certain areas of the Hmielna and Žitomir regions (10162). Then I'll put up the chaplains. Then gather the voices, then the chaplains. So I'm putting in a draft decision that was emphasized by Litwin, 10162, to put the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote, please support, please vote. [[12:01:40]] For 213 And, colleagues, there's a call for us to go back to the Chaplains Act, literally a few votes missing, literally a few votes. And I'm asking colleagues to take up jobs now, and I'm going to make another proposal: putting the day-to-day session in order to decide on the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of chaplain activities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine (10279). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Voting, supporting. [[12:02:29]] For-198 And, colleagues, there was still a request for us to put forward the Sumar Bill, 10268: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. Who's in charge of putting it into the agenda for the decision-making session, please vote. [[12:03:02]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, there's still a draft of the Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, 9039 and 9039. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. 9039 is "The Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security" for the general designer of a nuclear installation and a facility designed to deal with radioactive waste, 9039. And, colleagues, they're asking again. Colleagues, 9039 put the day session in order. 9039 please vote, please support. Please vote. And I'm going to re-set Lithuania's decision. Please vote for radioactive waste, except for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[12:04:06]] For-189 And, colleagues, last, final vote. After the decree of Lithuania, I was approached by an unorientated man. It refers to overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the West. And I ask everyone to support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session, 10162. Please vote, please support. I just said what. And you vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. So that's what you were talking about. Yes, please. I went on. I went on, I told you. [[12:04:48]] For 223 Colleagues, once again, three votes. So I'm putting a draft Decree 10162 on the environmental situation in the Gomorrah Rivers and the World -- getting into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. We missed three votes. Please vote, please support. Vote. We're backing it up. For ecology, under Decree 10162. Let's vote, colleagues, getting into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[12:05:26]] For 240 Decision taken. And we'll be able to put her to the vote soon, maybe even at 12:30. Maybe even 12:30. Now, colleagues, I have to announce a break of 30 minutes, until 12:35. But who's in charge of taking the picture, please come to the rostrum. So at 12:35, I ask everyone to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u88	So the colleagues, the time spent for the break, is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the continuation of our work. I'm asking you to invite all the deputies into the hall. Please, everyone, come into the hall. I would like to point out that the next day is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Promotion of Procedural Justice and on Improving the Effectiveness of Conduct in Violations of Economic Competition Legislation, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 21.03.2019 (No.6746). This question was raised by Victoria the Birdman on the Conciliation Board. And I would like to emphasise, there is a special consideration of the procedure for considering this bill. So, colleagues, I would also like to point out to you that we have included in the agenda of the day session to decide the draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Community in specific areas of the Hmielnicka and Žitomir region. We can look at the next one in the daytime, and we can look at what we put into the agenda. So what I want to ask is, is Dirov in the audience, the reporter? Is Anatoly Borisovich in the hall? I'll tell you what. Mr. Vladimir, there is an offer to consider your determination now. This will bring people together during the discussion. All factions supported, there was general support. So, colleagues, we've included in the agenda of the day's session for decision a draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Community in specific areas of the Hmielnicki and Žitomirsk oblasts (10162). He was supported by all the factions, and so we move on to his consideration, and then the law of the day will be followed. It's a deal. Colleagues, the first vote is to consider this order in a summary procedure. Please vote and please support. [[12:42:52]] For-73 I'm going to go to all my colleagues again: this is a very simple decision. Maybe for short? Let me put it again, colleagues. So I'm putting the motion to a vote: Decree 10162, by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Otherwise, we will not be able to consider the following questions. [[12:43:23]] For-75 Okay. I invite you to report to the author of the decree, Vladimir Litvina. From the committee, determine who will speak from the committee. Please, Vladimir Litwin, author of the decree. Please, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u89	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, you know that there has been an epepoch for 3 years that has been associated with the pollution of the rivers of Gomorrah and the West and the environment as a result of the activities of the Ponkin Paper and Paper Union. This is due to the fact that he does not have any clean - up facilities and that harmful wastes from this production get into the water. Despite all the efforts of the public, authorities, local authorities, this problem has not been resolved for three years. The meetings were held on numerous occasions, and appropriate plans were taken, but they were not implemented again. Meanwhile, the situation continues to deteriorate. The investigation is carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, unfortunately, there are no decisions. The appeal to the court about the cessation of water supply activities in connection with this enterprise has virtually failed to reach a decision. The case is now before the Supreme Court of Ukraine. At the same time, people cannot tolerate an atmosphere that is excruciating, since they live on an area of 15,000 square miles [15,000 sq km]. I'm not saying that the city of Novograd Wallinsky draws water from the Case, which is 57,000 inhabitants. By the way, there are a lot of military units there, I can only point out that 7.5,000 people in Novograd-Wolinski have the status of a participant in combat. This figure is eloquently indicative of the mission carried out by the military and in general by the people of Novograd Volinstein in protecting the country. Discharges occur periodically, especially at nighttime. The factory’s management has made some progress, in the paws that used to be over the water, is now buried in the ground, and the dirt, the wastes are just to prevent people from seeing and reacting so quickly. A decision has recently been taken in Novograd-Wolinski, including a call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to the law enforcement authorities, with a proposal, including to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt a draft decision that is proposed for your consideration and decision. People were going to cover up the Kiev-Chop route, but they understand that this is no way out of the situation, because other citizens are suffering, the economy of Ukraine is suffering. They hope, believe, that the Supreme Council will always demonstrate its position and make a responsible decision. I express my deep appreciation to the leaders of all the MP factions and groups that were concerned about this issue, who were concerned and who were actually a collective participant in the draft decision. What is involved in this decree, fellow believers. It is said that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is addressing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a recommendation to make a submission to the President of Ukraine on the identification of the Homomor and Conte River Basin in the territory of the Polonian region of the Hmelnicke Region and the Baranov and Novograd-Voline regions of the Žitomir region as a zone of extreme ecological situation. That's the first point. And the other one. The recommendation of the President of Ukraine to announce the Homomor and Conte River Basin in the territory of the Polonian region of the Hmelnitsk Region and the Barani and Novograd-Wallin regions of the Žitomir region as a zone of extreme ecological situation, well, with the corresponding consequences and actions that would lead to the adoption of this decision. The committee, the committee of profile, reviewed the relevant draft regulation and unanimously voted, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the document be accepted on the basis and in general, for which the inhabitants of these areas and those areas also offer sincere thanks to the people's deputies for understanding the importance of the problem. We should think about how to live, not only for those who are present in this world but also for those who are to be born. Because we are talking about Ukraine’s need to grow people so that people do not leave our homeland. And that's what we're seeing, including in the Gitomir region. This concludes my report. More than that, I'm sure there's no need to argue, I feel there's unanimity support, and I thank you all very much for that. The report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u90	Thank you very much. Please remain at the rostrum. People's deputies would like to sign up for an interview. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u91	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin, Peter Dusty Block. Of course, it's pretty important, and there's no questions, because we understand the reporter and his concern that river pollution is. Everyone here is suffering. For three years, we hear that the issue is not solved and so on. But I have this question: How many people work in this company? And, well, it's trouble that the pipe and these impurities, it's buried, and they don't see this truth, that it's really these impurities that fall. But once again, if it's an emergency zone, won't the company shut down? It's just a simple question for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. The thing is, there are thousands of people working in the company. And it's clear that the district government, they think that the enterprise should work. And I have to tell you that people who care about this problem, activists who, by the way, have been here for days, in the Supreme Council, have also met with members of the committee, with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions and expressed their views, their positions, they are unanimous in that, of course, people have to work. The business should work for the economy, but on one condition: that they meet their obligations to build cleaners. And there's a problem, in Polonsky, that there's no clean-up facilities at all. And this business is big and powerful, it could also support the city. They signed the corresponding commitment, and they met the respective commissions of the two districts. Appropriate protocols were accepted and accepted. But it's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u93	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u94	And to those who have felt that the court is not making a proper decision on the prohibition of water use, and this case is moving from one court to another, and is now in the last highest office -- in the Supreme Court -- they're all waiting for a verdict. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u96	Thank you for the quality of your decision. We will definitely support the idea of recognizing the zone as an exceptional environmental situation. Instead, I would like to ask you to explain what to do with other extraordinary environmental situations in Ukraine. In particular, there is a whole burial of radiation - dangerous things under the Kropivnitsky city. Everyone has known about this since Soviet times. There's even a decision, the Prime Minister's order, but it's not being implemented. So, what do we do, including Parliament, when we know these things, we communicate directly with people, we know that this burial is, we even go there with a dosimeter, we show the head of the government, the mayor, that there is radiation-threatening territory within the city, what to do with the Supreme Council in such a situation? Maybe all of these areas will be generalized and recognized by the President's decree or by an appropriate decree as an extraordinary zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you for asking. You have absolute logic. The point is, if we were to look at the situation in the country of the Kingdom, we would have to declare much of the territory of Ukraine an ecological emergency. Especially considering what. Among other things, there are many pesticides and various chemicals left after collective farming collapsed. At best, they're just buried somewhere. I'm not saying that today the territory of Ukraine has turned into total garbage. And those powers that are being implemented today for the purpose of processing, the disposal of these hazardous wastes, they're completely uncoordinated, they don't have a scale that meets government needs and questions. And to a greater extent, they apply to these people, who can be called movers. The way out. Obviously, we need to study this problem, listen to it in the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u98	Thank you. I don't see how much time we have left. Well, let's ask one more question. The last question is the national deputy Sverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u99	Please pass the word to John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u100	Please, National MP Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u101	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, that's really important enough questions, and we see that. And I wanted there to be more national MPs, so we would still support it, because, as far as nature is concerned, pollution, we have to fight anyway, so that we have a clean environment. But I have a question. Of course, I don't know how it's gonna be. Without the Supreme Council, does the President have the right to declare himself, on his own, without that determination to declare an emergency?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u102	I thank you again for asking. Understanding the situation that the ruling had been made two months ago, but because of the different circumstances it was not the subject of consideration in the Supreme Council's session hall, I repeatedly asked the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit a document to the President of Ukraine after apparently the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence, if necessary, that the President of Ukraine should adopt an appropriate document. He also addressed the President of Ukraine directly. But I would like to say that all of this has to do with a complex political election campaign, and this has not been reached. Apparently, the Supreme Council is going to push the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. And I'd like another valid president to sign the corresponding document, otherwise it'll delay the final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u103	We have time for one more question. Please, the national deputy of Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u104	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Why are there these, I'll say, isolated incidents in Ukraine? The answer is very simple, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It seems to me that in the absence of environmental control, we're giving these poor investors the opportunity because I can't call them normal investors, to make their capitals, in spite of the legislation, to set up dangerous polluting enterprises and, without paying, without setting up the filters properly, to continue to make money. I guess that's the main reason. I want to say that the Motherland faction will support this decision. And we've seen, in fact, the activists -- the inhabitants of Zitomirsk -- who were also on the briefing at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, raise that question. And we will now support this decision. We just want to ask you. Do you have any understanding that by adopting this decision it will be implemented and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u105	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u106	And the owners will be able to meet all the conditions, install the filters for normal work and ensure that there are no discards in the River Svet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u107	Thank you for asking. Well, I'm not naive, like all of us, that we're going to make a decision right now, and things are going to get better. But I think this will testify to the adoption of this document, which is the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to ignore the decision and opinion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is absolutely unacceptable. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, I agree with you that we now have a broken management system, a broken state administration vertical. In connection with the creation of united territorial communities, we have found that the district government, and above all, the district government, has nothing to do with it. And all of these problems are actually automatically passed on to the O.T.G., and you know very well that they have neither the resources nor the ability to even deal with these problems. This is just one of the problems that there are so many in Ukraine that we have a healthy future as a minimum for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u108	Thank you, reporter. Please, you may return to your seat. And I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster by National MP Paul Djublik to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u109	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! The problem discussed by the previous reporter is not new. Unfortunately, over the past three years, committee members have made, let's say, not one trip directly to the scene, the environmental inspection of the Žitomir region has been conducted repeatedly and monitoring, and a large number of prescriptions have been made. Sadly, though, according to our legislation today, there are, again, no effective methods. If you take the latest events that took place two months ago, there are currently nearly 21 million dollars worth of damage. In addition, documents have been submitted under the responsibility of direct representatives of the observatories, who have responded and signed the relevant acts. In addition, a criminal case has been committed. And now in the courts, environmental inspection is trying to stop the enterprise itself. Clearly, the first question asked is how many people work in this company, how much money does this company pay in the budget. But believe me, the damage that this enterprise has done to the environment over the last four years is nothing compared to what they're doing directly to the budget. And the question is only one: That an enterprise must meet its obligations and build a clean house, which unfortunately is not happening at the moment. In addition, we have a huge number of problems in the legislation itself. This is also a moratorium on environmental checks, about which the committee has repeatedly raised questions and registered legislative initiatives. In addition, we have a problem with the fact that when an enterprise directly influences the environment, environmental inspection cannot stop the enterprise itself. Because, once again, there is a court procedure, and our courts tend to delay and make decisions that are not directly necessary for ecology. So in addressing all of you, I would like to support this decision directly. I hope that in this way we will all, together with you, pay attention directly to the problem that is, and recognize this area directly as a disaster zone. The Committee also notes that, in accordance with article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on a Zone of Extreme Environmental Situation, one of the reasons for the declaration of a particular location as a zone of exceptional environmental situation is the significant exceedance of the limit values for the quality of the environment determined by legislation, which is in this case directly in this area. Therefore, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Community in specific areas of the Hmielnické region, the Žitomir region, as a whole. Thank you. And I ask you not to be indifferent and to support this decision directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Stay in the rostrum, please. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur who represents the position of a profile committee. Please, Yuri Pavlenko, your question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u111	The honourable reporter, indeed, found the situation to be critical in this area. I have a question for you as a representative of the profile committee. In your opinion, has the Ministry of Profiles performed all its functions, done enough to stop these damages and protect people, and nature in this area? Because this situation has not been created today, not this year, but it has continued, for about three years, there have been numerous complaints to us, to the national MPs, and the ministry has even held a number of committees there, and meetings on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u112	Unfortunately, I have to. Thank you for the questions, but unfortunately, I have to find out the fact that, really, in any case. whether it's the Ministry of Professional Affairs that you're talking about, or directly in environmental inspection, according to those legislative acts that have been adopted, and those moratoriums that have been introduced are actually very limited today. If the brothers are on the legislative level, and we've been helping them do that, we've now adopted the basin principle of river management. And if we've moved on to this principle, in further situations like this, let's say the number of permits that were issued before can't be issued right now. And this is, again, as if there's a positive moment. But you and I need to help the profile ministry again, and we need to end this shameful moratorium on environmental checks. And we should also allow environmental inspectors to stop the enterprise if it actually does damage and pollutes the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u113	Please, the next question. The national deputy of Evtushok.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u114	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. It is a good thing that the committee takes care of such problems. I want to say that in addition to the lack of proper control in our country for today of businesses that are harmful and that have a level that is appropriate for people who are citizens of Ukraine, activists are also failing to find the truth in the courts. Because here, of course, when an investor is rich and judged, of course it is unrealistic for humans and activists to win those trials. I have such a simple question for you. We have a number of such cases in Ukraine. Was the matter discussed at the environmental committee meeting to pick up and leave, for example, the outgoing meeting in the Gitomirsk region, to see how the uncleanness really appears in the River Svet? If you do this with a committee, believe me, it will further strengthen the position of public activists and residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u115	Thank you for asking, Mr. Sergei. I can report that the committee's outgoing meeting was happening directly here. I personally went to the Poninkovsky combine, and I wasn't in the van myself, but we were going through and looking at the whole situation. But the situation is a big problem, and I'm stressing again that there's a moratorium on testing. This is the first moment. And the second point is that in environmental inspection, there are direct maneuvers to bring responsibility to an enterprise that violates our legislation and pollutes the environment. This does not apply, for example, only to the Poninkovsky combine if the brothers, in Oleusk recently, again in Žitomyrstina, had had yadchemics, and burned, and, let's say, this, again, was a technological catastrophe of local significance. Also, see what happens when poisons are introduced directly into fields and rivers. Well, we're doing everything we can to destroy our nature and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u116	30 seconds to complete. Oh, you're done. Please, the next question. National MP Sporish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u117	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. First of all, I want to thank the committee for preparing the decision very well and for being, going to places, and watching it. But I have a question, that's all. As I've heard before, these prescriptions and all that sort of stuff don't help. First of all, where does the mayor look? Because these are incomes, these are taxes where they're paid. You said 21 million damages. Is this an enterprise? Or are the damage done to the environment itself and so forth, to these waters? I think it's probably cheaper to build cleaners than the damage that's been done. For these damages, it may have been possible to build these sewage treatment plants by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u118	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. Well, first of all, the damage is caused by an environmental inspection of the pollution of the river. And directly, if you take it by. For example, fish were counted, fish inspections combined with environmental inspection accounted for the damage caused by this technological catastrophe, 21 million dollars. It's just the last thing that happened. Realistically, the Hmielnicka observatories, in which this factory is located directly, and paying taxes directly to the Hmmelnicka district budget, are stubbornly ignoring all the questions that we have been raising over the last three years. And let's say they say it's normal, they don't have anything polluted, because it's the way that Lifetime is right in the stream of these rivers. And after the Poninkovsky combine has polluted them, all these dirts are directly found in the Zitomirsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u120	Are you done? Thank you very much, you can go back to your workplace. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the ruling that we are currently considering. And now there's a chance and there's a possibility, and the Rules provide for this, statements from MPs and factions. Please. And then from the deputies. It's only right that I've just been able to log in. Colleagues. All of it! Please, the People's Deputy of Aresonkov is invited to the floor. He's presenting the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, of course, first of all, I would like to thank Vladimir Mikhailovich Lithuania personally for the fact that it is not the first, perhaps, month and not the first year that raises an extremely important, extremely relevant topic related to environmental pollution, in which case, unfortunately, there is a specific fact that the pollution of the river basin is located in both the area and the area of Hmielnitsky and the area of Žitomir. But clearly, we need to focus and accept this decision, to make sure that all efforts are now directed both by the government and by the government, and by the local government, and by the authorities of local self-government to eliminate this accident. But I would like us to pay attention to the fact that the question is being raised much wider. It was pointed out that the environmental, and more specifically, elimination of the effects of technological accidents, technological situations, such as the use or inability to bury pesticides, jachemics and so on, the number of pesticides currently in the area in this case and in the area of Zitomir is extremely large, what is their fate? Translating only to self - government bodies, to newly created territorial communities, is the wrong position, because they don't have enough funds. The situation that took place in Oleusk, where one of the containers where the jadechemics were stored and where a large number of these poisons were poured onto the ground, and now, among other things, is being carried out in Zitomir on the basis of the district government meeting of the district commission on the technology situation, which is looking for effective solutions to this situation. So today we need to pay attention to the Ministry of Profiles, the government, to the restoration of the State Program. I want to remind you, in 2011-2012, there was a program for the disposal, export outside Ukraine of these wastes and pesticides. But she was only two years old, after which the money ran out, and no one took it seriously. So let's take a look at this problem that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin raised, and let's look at the whole set of environmental issues that are becoming increasingly important in the territory as each day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u122	Thank you for your performance. And Sergey Eutuszek is invited to the floor. He represents the position of the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u123	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I would like very much not to look at such local cases where there is no proper environmental control in one place. I would very much like this process to be systemic in Ukraine, and we have every challenge, every case where an abnormal, innocuous, sort of, investor, without the means of filtration, caused environmental damage. And I would not want Ukraine as a country to be conducive to such investors. And we must say today that our country is, unfortunately, such a country today. We see that a number of different businesses, including and now we see public activists fighting to ensure that our country does not have incentives for fur farms, because they also do a lot of damage to our ecology. And the decree also regulates that it is in the river of the Case that flows through the Plains, the Zitomirst, that it falls down to Dniper, that impurities appear, that causes various diseases in the inhabitants. I don't want it to be so local. I would like the system of control in Ukraine to work at the right level. Can people who have been in the Ukrainian Parliament for days on this issue be allowed to choose their rights in the courts in Zitomirsk? Of course not. They can't for one simple reason that on the one hand an investor who has very much money, and on the other hand citizens who can't find the truth in a court of law and then have to cover the roads, come here to Parliament and express their position so that the executive authorities will pay attention. What do we have in fact? Already the author of the decree, Vladimir Litwin, spoke about this by reporting on this decree. We have the fact that, on the one hand, the state executive power in the person of the head of the district government fully understands that with the closure of such an enterprise, industrial and other councils in the President's administration, once these indicators fall, this head of the district government will have a lot of problems with the leadership of the state. So the district government, the authorities hold the position of not residents, but I'll tell you, that's their health, and that's another story -- that's what we're talking about. That's why Fatherland will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u124	30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u125	The decision is made and we will urge the entire Parliament to give all its votes in order, however, to save people, and to force the investor to provide adequate protection for the River Sąd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u126	Thank you. Please welcome Oleg Lazko. He represents the position of the Radical Party faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u127	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team will support the bill that we've been trying to get it to finally be considered in Parliament to stop poisoning the inhabitants of the beautiful Zitomir region. Sadly, environmental problems are not limited to the U.S. The whole of Ukraine is a huge environmental problem because they think only about stealing and using people, instead of thinking about how to make clean water people drink, live decently in warm homes, and help Ukrainian families. Let me give you a specific example. Yesterday I was in the village of Gorislav, the Kremenchuck district of Poltava. A family of five children Aunt Sagidak. Five children live, five cows are held, milk prices are gone and nothing is fed, and they live in a small room. The house, my mom's house, where four rooms. Five children of the family are not receiving a penny of the grant. Up to 10,000 dollars a month should be paid for gas and electricity, for utilities. And these five children, Tetjana Sagaidak, have to pay 10,000 dollars a month so that Naftogazu Head Kobolev gets 5 million wages a month and one and a half billion dollars a bonus. That's where these cosmic wages and bonuses come from. Of families like Tetjana Sagidak in Poltavščina. And each Ukrainian family has to pay these cosmic prices for a utility station, for gas, so that someone can charge their pockets and set space wages. Man: A teacher, a doctor who has worked hard all his life, receives 2,000 dollars of pension. Prosecutor, judge, 200, 300,000 dollars of pension and salary. Where is justice? And then we wonder why people are leaving Ukraine. Because, as a key, there is no order and no justice. So our policy is to restore the country, to restore respect for man’s work, for peasants, for workers, for many children’s families, for every Ukrainian person. Not only are they embroidered once a year, but Ukrainians need to be in spirit and heart. This means a strong country, a restoration of order and a restoration of justice for many children, such as Tetjana Sagaidak of the village of Gorislavi, and millions of such Ukrainian families, so that they do not suffer from high tariffs, low wages, and low pensions. So restoring the economy, restoring respect for work, supporting peasants, workers is the key to Ukraine's success.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u128	Thank you. Please make the next statement. The position of the People's Front faction is presented by Mr. Sauka, National MP. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u129	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, above all, for the work that Vladimir Lithuania has done, which has not been ignored for some time, but has been paying attention to these problems that are currently present in our country of Ukraine. And each one of us must do so in order to demonstrate and report to the government in order to do everything possible to ensure that they are not in the future. Because ecology is the most important thing we have, what our parents gave us. And that is what we must pass on to our future generation. And these, so-called entrepreneurs who do pollution, environmental pollution, we have to do everything we can to get them to be held accountable. The law is one to all. That's why. Yes, at present, Ukraine is sinking into the trash, so it is. Where you don't look, there must always be certain leaders who have to do everything they can to make order, it's not. And we should as national deputies do what we do. To take responsibility, to adopt laws to bring responsibility to those leaders who do the damage. And as far as the pollution of our rivers is concerned, our lakes are for our own, our home land, as we now know very well, especially farmers, are doing their best and watering the land with these poisons that are currently unbearable. We have to take it all under control and do everything we can to make sure it doesn't happen. To pass our earth on to our future generation, as our ancestors passed on to us. And we need to know one thing that, apart from our land, we have no other but our earth. So we know that we must do so in order to be proud of our land, so that in no way are they polluted, and in no way were certain so - called entrepreneurs doing their utmost to enrich themselves. We must do our utmost to ensure that our earth is clean, free, and nature for our generation and for us. The People's Front supports and will support everything for our people, for our future generation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u130	Please welcome Yuri Pavlovenko. He represents the position of the opposition block faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u131	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, our faction supports and considers this decision, and we will vote in favour of the Supreme Council's decree on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the waters of the Comoros and the Community in certain areas of the Hmielnach and Žitomir regions. This decision has already matured because the inhabitants of the Žitomir region, the Barani region and the Novograd-Volin region have been living with this problem for several years. For several years in a row, they are experiencing an environmental disaster and have repeatedly addressed both the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine, and the National Deputies of Ukraine. As Ukraine’s national deputy, first of all, one of the first addresses a few years ago, I met personally and visited the Poninkian cardboard factory with communities living on these rivers. And I was able to get to know them, and I could see the state of these cleaners. They really didn't work very much. And at that point a few years ago, the factory's management promised and even made it look like they were starting to build and rebuild the appropriate treatment plants. But, as we can see, years have passed, and the situation is repeated every year, and it is becoming even more critical of health and of the lives of the inhabitants of the Gitomir region each year. So it has happened that this factory is located in the area of the Hmielni district, but the damages take place almost on the border with the Žitomirski region. That's why all the negative effects on the work of this company are being absorbed by the inhabitants of Baranów and Novograd Volinsky. All the actions and local authorities, they actually rely on total misunderstandings and opposition from individuals and officials in the hops. In my opinion, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection has not fully used its potential and its authority to protect nature and people. Regrettably, there was almost no functioning of the District State Administration, which was unable to reconcile the actions of its colleagues in the Hmělní region, so to speak, and to raise the alarm and turn directly to the President of Ukraine to announce the state of emergency in those areas. So in this case, the Supreme Council is doing the right thing by addressing both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine to declare the Baranovsky and Novograd-Wollin regions a zone of extraordinary ecological situation. We have a responsibility to protect people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u132	Thank you. And lastly, a closing word from groups and factions. Please, Sergey Shahov, present the "will of the people" position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u133	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". At last, respectable colleagues raised a huge layer of environmental problems. I am grateful to Vladimir Litwin for having registered this decree. Look at what Ukraine is turning into. Literally three days ago, a car of half a ton of amber was arrested in the Gitomir region. Is this simply done by smugglers who rob Ukrainian land? No, it is done under the supervision of the watchful authorities. Next. What is happening in the Luhansk region? For 300 million dollars, pumps were to be installed to pump the water out of the mine. These pumps were not installed. Some pumps have been purchased that don't match the documents today, and no one's checking anything. Be assured that Shahov's appeal to the Attorney General's Office, to all the authorities to fully verify the First-Major Coal, Lysichanskwogil. When miners die there in the mine today, when they do not pay their wages today, 300 million dollars are robbed at every turn. What about the Ukrainian forests? I'm not just going to speak for my district of the Bilovod region, the Novopskovsky region, the continental Lugansk region, where 20,000 hectares of land today under a dry forest eaten by a crocodile can be converted into a green forest, I say, into a forest. The green forest is driven by troops every night, and what's happening is no one's arresting him. We need to focus on this particular direction in the environmental field. You can't cut the air with a knife today. Today, oncology is at every turn. At every turn today is an epidemic. Who will pay attention to ecology today, besides us national MPs? Because it is the national MPs who have to deal not only with themselves in the districts but throughout the country. Dear colleagues, this decision needs to be supported. "The will of the people" will vote for her. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u134	Thank you, colleagues. I'll remind you, the vote is in nine minutes. Now it's nine minutes for the national MPs. And all factions have 9 minutes to ensure the presence of all the national MPs on the scene. So now, nine minutes is from the National MPs. There'll be a vote in nine minutes. I ask all the factions in nine minutes to ensure the presence of the deputies in the hall. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. Litwin Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u135	Dear Head, dear colleagues, today you are viewed as at least 300,000 people entering this zone of environmental distress. Today a young family from the village of Deepkok in the Baranów region is looking at you. A young family from the village of Prvotravensk, in the region of Barani. Today you are being watched by an ATO participant from Novograd Wallinsky. They are looking at you with the hope that this decision will be made. And that they will feel that they are not left alone with their misery. Because they ask with hope in their voice, can they bear children? And where does it guarantee that these children are born healthy in this ecological situation? At the same time, honourable colleagues would like to take into account the situation that the Žitomir region, like other areas of Ukraine, but especially the Žitomirsk and Kyiv region, is impressed by Chernobyl. Take such a region as the Emylchinsky. This is 80 percent of the areas affected by radiation pollution. 25,000 people, think about it, people who are mostly rural people who are busy with agricultural work in their farms, in their cities, they signed a letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's their cry, it's a plea, it's a request and a expectation that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will hear them. Appropriate decisions were made by city, district, village, and rural councils, asking not only to support them, but also to make an appropriate decision that would give hope for a solution to the problem, requiring law enforcement authorities to bring the matter to a logical conclusion, to establish the perpetrators as a rule and to begin with who is the ultimate owner of the enterprise. Because it's impossible. Moreover, even if the district government protects them, the fact is that they are usually registered in other areas and cannot find the truth. And we, among other things, had to make a legislative decision that businesses, their separate units, were registered where they were doing practical manufacturing activities so that they could be controlled by local authorities. I understand there's a problem with the voices right now. Dear Mr. Head, yes, perhaps then make a signal vote or a rating vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Mr. Vladimir, you know there can be no interruption in the ruling. But I think we'll call in six minutes. Everyone will come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm addressing the heads of factions, I'm addressing in public: in six minutes of voting, I'm asking that all the national MPs be at the workplace and I ask the Supreme Council Secretariat to announce it. There is general support for this decision. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. Now I give you my word for the speech. Timis is handing over the Fishman. Please turn on the microphone, Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u137	Fishing, 202 constituency, Cherniewec region, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. "Contaminated water kills more people than wars and all other forms of violence combined," said the United Nations report, published on the occasion of the World Water Day, which takes place on March 22, for more than 20 years. Mankind appreciated the threats posed by water pollution. In Ukraine, every year we get to our water supply -- think about this number -- 300 million cubic meters of dirt. They're industrial sewers, they're sewers. How do we deal with this? In fact, very topical issues are now being raised in this draft decision. And I clearly urge everyone to support and vote in favour of this draft decision. And the real reaction to the things that are happening in the area of Hmielna and Žitomir region, in the pool of the Rivers of Gomorrah and Svet. But why this is happening, we have to answer to ourselves, first of all. Perhaps because the environmental control system is imperfect. Probably because the courts don't work properly. Because today, during the consideration of this draft decision, questions were already being asked, and what the Ministry was doing. And the Ministry has actually been summoned repeatedly to the courts, but unfortunately, the courts refuse the Ministry, and the Ministry cannot be effective in this matter. A positive response would be to vote in favour of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (for the introduction of European Experience on State Environmental Control) under the number 8026, which has been standing for more than a year, we have registered it in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. But we don't have a hand to look at. As yesterday, the Ukrainian Parliament did not manage to adopt the Law on Parliamentary Hearings on the Status and Perspectives of Environmental Policy in Ukraine. So, dear colleagues, let's now support Vladimir Mikhailovich. We will support all the natives, all the people who consume the water from these rivers, who use these waters in the area of Hmielničina and Žitomirščina, and we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u138	Thank you. So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. I address all the factions in Parliament, I address the groups "will of the people" and "rebirth." Look, after three minutes of voting, you obviously have communication with each other. Please find and invite members of the National Assembly. It's a closing act. This is about the fate of ordinary people, and it is about supporting people. I ask everyone to return to the hall, stop any political debate and be in the hall. Now, the closing statement, I ask no one to leave the hall, but everyone to enter the hall. Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich is now invited to the floor. After this vote. Everyone, please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Recently, I was in the Gitomirsk district, and I was driven and shown the Oleshkovsky region. What I saw there was not surprising. It's a lunar landscape, it's an industrial amber production, it's what makes the country completely incomprehensible. If you saw that, you'd realize that the environmental problem in Ukraine is no longer ringing the bell -- it's ringing in the toilet, and you have to do it. It's a question that Mr. Litwin raised, it's really mature. But did it mature only in the Gitomir region? No, it's not. Look at what's happening in Kiev, look at Dnipro, who's in a terrible state right now. Look, though, at the fact that the water that is drunk by the Chinese does not meet any standards. Look at what's going on with Desenka, who's in Troas in a terrible situation. Look at Lake Diamond, which is now polluted and it looks like anything, look at all the other cities. Sadly, the country’s ecology is in a terrible state. What is more, it is not uncommon to raise such questions. And now I see that it's going to collapse here because the inauguration has already been voted on, and I can't see the votes. If voted, it would be a miracle, a miracle that can help individual Ukrainians. What about other Ukrainians? What can we do about those who are now in a terrible state who do not understand how to move on? What should be done about the need for virtually complete renovations in Kiev? What do you do with the waste disposal plant, sorry, the energy processing plant at the Kharkiv Mass in Kiev, where you have to change filters almost 15-20 years ago and they don't change? What do you want to do? And in the background of all of this, I hear a story that in Troas they want to build a new garbage disposal plant that will pollute the environment of the Trinity. What we're talking about. Build a place for people to die. That's not gonna happen. We can see how people are now suffering in Lifetime. And in the Trinity should they suffer, too? Yes, perhaps we will resolve this issue throughout Ukraine, not just to save Zitomirsk? Maybe everyone will realize that the issue of ecology is a question of the future of the country, it's a question of where our children, grandchildren, descendants will live with you. The question is, Will we live or survive? That's why I want to point out that we have to vote, but not only for this decision, but in general for restoring the environment in Ukraine, because we have to live here, not survive, and we have to save the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u140	Thank you. So, colleagues, once again, I see visually that there aren't enough deputies in the room. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall right now, and we're actually moving on to making a decision. We just didn't have Self-Help. One more minute, Oleg Berezuk, turn on the microphone. And I'm asking everyone to come to the hall, colleagues, to be in the hall. Please come into the hall. Now, Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u141	The absence of the rule of law in the state, the absence of a monitoring function of ministries, law enforcement agencies, not that there is no such thing as a lack of control, but a dependence on oligarchic clans that are engaged in purely vulgar businesses, exploiting the resources of the country and people, leads to an ecological situation in a country that is catastrophic. And today I just want to mention two cities in Western Ukraine: a pillar that, within the limits of an environmental disaster, for decades no one is paying attention or gathering; and Borislav, who is in black gold and could, in large account, provide energy resources to half the country, today survives at the edge of an environmental catastrophe. Today, the State is not involved in resource conservation and in the quality of its use. She's helping the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u142	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, from government beds, from guest beds to return to the hall so that you don't have to vote a few times. I also ask everyone to come to their places of work and prepare for the vote. It's the support of the common people who are waiting for our decision today, hundreds of thousands of ordinary people. So I'm asking responsibly, every voice will have a weight, prepare for making a decision. Go back to work. So we're moving on to making a decision. Ready? Yes. Please. And I'm voting on the draft decree on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Union in specific areas of the Hmielna and Žitomir Region (No.10162). The committee is invited to vote as a basis and as a whole. Please vote and support 10162 as a whole. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We support our fellow citizens, our colleagues, it's not politics. Vote. [[13:45:22]] For 216 We didn't make it. We'll be right back. Look who's out there. Don't leave the hall at this time! This will be a personal responsibility. Whoever comes out of this room at this point is going to be personally responsible. I'll read the factions. Please come into the hall. Don't leave the hall, please! In fact, I'm going to read, "Clock of Petra Poshenko" -- 64, "National Front" -- 60, "Opposition Block" -- 20, "self-help" -- 13, Radical Party 18, "Fatherhood" -- 10, "Will of the People" -- 2, "Rebirth" -- 1, "non-fractional" -- 28. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. Please take your seats, get ready to vote and be in the workplace, because you just can't make it when you're not in the workplace. Please be prepared. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Ordinance on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation (No.10162). Please return to the vote for this ruling. And I ask, responsibly, every voice, to support people today who are at risk of environmental distress. Please vote and please support the return. Vote, colleagues, support! Vote! Please return to vote. Please be supportive. [[13:47:06]] For 218. I saw I couldn't make it. I didn't make it to Condratiuk. I'm going to do it again. My colleagues, please, have a few deputies in the hall. I'm asking you to stay in the workplace during the vote. Stay in the workplace! So now I'm going to put it back. Come into the hall, don't leave the hall. We are. A few votes missing. Come on, be responsible, don't leave the hall, colleagues. So I'm proposing for the second time that the draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah and Svetna (10162) River Basin should come back to the consideration of this decision. And I would like you to point out that every voice has a weight, and that's why I'm asking you to be in the workplace and vote. Please support the return. Please vote in favour of the return to consideration of this decision. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we carefully, responsibly vote, we support people, we support our citizens. Vote, colleagues, please support, vote. [[13:48:29]] For 215 It's gotten smaller, not bigger. Is this some sort of plot in the hall? Is someone playing with those voices? Well, it got smaller than it was, and the MPs came up with a minimum of five. If you are opposed to this decision, simply declare it. I'm asking you to take up jobs. Please take up jobs. I don't understand if there's any intrigue, please report publicly. It is the support of citizens who suffer from environmental distress. There can be no politics, no coalition, no opposition. Please take your jobs, come into the hall, take your jobs. I'll put it back again. And please don't mess with those questions. You're ready, aren't you? I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft regulation 10162. Please support everyone, please vote for the return, please take part in the vote. Please support the return, please vote for the return. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[13:49:58]] For 218. I'll be right there, okay. I don't have it. I'm gonna put it in. By factions, show by factions. Now I'm going to put the closing act together. The factions. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 63, "National Front" – 58, "Opposition Block" – 22, "self-help" – 13, "Radical Party – 18, "Batakščina" – 10, "Will of the People" – 4, "Rebirth" – 2, but there were several other deputies, non-fractional – 28. So please mobilize now. A few deputies have arrived, and we can do this now. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, stay out of the hall. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm the first to vote on the proposal to go back to the draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Union in certain areas of the Hmelnicka and Žitomir region (No. 10162), the first vote for the return. I'm asking everyone who's held back. It's going to be the right thing to do. I ask you to support the return, and I ask you to vote. We're voting for our return, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. Please vote, please support. We vote, we vote, we vote. I'd like everyone in this room to support you. There are voices in the hall. [[13:51:37]] For 226 We're back, we're back. Now, everyone, please stay out of the hall. Those who do not vote will be personally accountable to those people. Please mobilize, please take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Decision on overcoming the negative effects of the environmental situation in the Gomorrah River Basin and the Union in the specific areas of the Hmeljna and Žitomir Region (No. 10162), for the proposal of the committee, on the basis and in general. Please support everyone, vote everyone. Please vote, vote, support, colleagues. We support the ruling, let us vote in agreement, responsibly. We're backing it up. Please vote, we support. Every voice, colleagues. I'm not coming back. Be careful. [[13:52:38]] For 228 It's been decided. Congratulations, fellows! Colleagues, now I want to hold (be seated, colleagues), and I want to conduct a rating vote on the next order. Attention, stand by! I am voting on the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the UN, the Parliamentary Assembly, the national parliaments of the nations of the world to condemn violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation. This is the decree of Chubarov. I'm putting her on a rating vote. Please vote, please support. These are ratings. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. The rating vote. [[13:53:30.]] For 180. And the next one, which is in order of the day. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on promoting space activities and investing in the space sector of Ukraine (9219). Ratings, only ratings. Please vote, please support. Vote. It's just a rating vote. [[13:54:02]] For-166 These were the ratings for us to see what the situation was in the hall. And now I want to say that we have a few announcements that we have to read during the session. And I now invite you to read out the announcements of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, several announcements have come to the fore. Let me read them. First of all, the IFF "Equal Opportunities" now invites women to join the IFF "Equal Opportunities" to take a traditional photograph in the embroidery on the stairs. Yeah, that's Equal Opportunities. The second announcement is very important. There's a verdict. Men can take pictures. Women meet on the stairs. Guys, seriously. A few announcements came to the fore. First. From the National Deputy Yuri Derevyanka, whose card did not work during the voting for the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, and he asks to be considered "for". From the National Deputy Bandurov, who asks to count his vote in favour of the draft Decree on the date, time and venue of the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation of an oath to the Ukrainian people by the newly elected President (No. 10270-2) as a basis and as a whole as a "for". He didn't have a card. Also, a statement came to the fore from the national deputy Stanislaw Berezkin. According to these statements and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am reporting the withdrawal of the National Deputy Bereskin from the MP's "will of the people" group and his membership in the MP's Rebirth Party. And the final announcement. There will be a 15-minute meeting of the informal group "Minish Platform" at the time of the President-designate of the peace settlement of Irina Herashchenko, where she will report for her work over the years. I'd like to invite all the participants and deputies of the People's Platform. There's still a lot of announcements, respectable colleagues. And, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine stresses, honourable colleagues, there are exhibitions of folklore on embroidery until the Day of Embroidery, and we invite all our colleagues. From Volina, as indicated by the national deputies representing Volin. And we ask all the national MPs to join us in seeing these beautiful works of folk art. And the women of the national MPs are invited to a collective photo of the IFO "Equal Opportunities". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-16-m0.u144	So I join and invite everyone to the exhibition, which is in the towers until Embroidery Day. This is indeed a symbolic day for Ukrainians around the world. And I would like to point out that at 4:00 we will continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. And at 4:00 p.m., I'm inviting everyone into the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
