ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Good morning again, dear colleagues, guests of the Supreme Council, members of the media! Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:15:10]] There are 383 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, statements, messages. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Anton Ivanovich Kisse, MP for the Future. Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u2	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear friends! Among the risks that society is looking forward to today is our readiness to start the heating season. We see that the government is dealing with this issue, and there are only two cities left in the line of risk: Smila, which is in Cherkaszczina, the city of New Division and Novoyavorysk in the Lviv region. In fact, Smyla is also on that list. Thank you to the Ministry of Regional Construction, Mrs. Aloni Babak, who has taken care of this issue and has found additional funds to unlock accounts for gas consumed. But we want to draw attention to a problem that has worsened today in the city of the New Division in the Lviv region, where the ARMA National Agency for the Search for Illegal Assets has identified by way of a competition by the manager of the Garant M, who can't handle his duties: he can't close his salary to the employees, he can't overcome the difficulties with the breakthroughs, he can't get into the operation of TEC. And actually today, thanks only for the positive temperature, but the gardens and the schools and the hospitals are freezing, and we can have a situation with people going out on the streets and the breakthroughs, and Alcevsk, reminders of Alcevsk and reminders of Smil, as it was in previous years. We call on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine to help the regional authorities recognize this situation as a technological situation at a regional level, to help them find funds to pay their salaries to the workers, otherwise today-to-morrow the citizens of the city of New Division and Novoyavorysk will go out on the street, to cover the roads of interstate connection, because we all need to resolve this situation together and not allow the break of the heated season in these small towns of the Lviv region. We look forward to understanding and supporting the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u3	Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u4	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My fellow Members, today after Parliament's meeting, there will be a day of truth -- a day when the agrarian committee will make decisions: and how will the earth's circulation in Ukraine work? I would like to remind you of the pre-election promises made by the People's Servant and the President specifically that he will be conducting in Ukraine of the peoples of the country. After all, the first law to be passed in the Supreme Council Hall should be the law on the U.S. referendum. And it's the outcome of the U.K. referendum that the President would have to make proposals on how to deal with Ukrainian land. But for the time being, the government that represents you, colleagues, you, a majority of you, is passing bills allowing the land to be bought by those who do not live in Ukraine, allowing the land to be bought by foreigners. Then there are 10 alternative bills, and then there are MPs from "The Servants of the Nation" who are able to buy land for foreigners, and they're only starting to divide: that's not possible, that's not possible. Colleagues, this vote will depend on fate. It will depend on the fate of the country, it will depend on the fate of the Ukrainian territory, it will depend on the fate of the Ukrainian agricultural sector. There should be fairly balanced positions, and most importantly, positions that will protect the appropriate agrarian system. Look at the countries of Europe as they develop an agglomeration. Anyone who can actually process Ukrainian land has access to it. Look, please, colleagues, as is the case in Germany, in France, when land is not passed on to a speculator when the land is not given to an investor. The earth is given to those who create jobs and who live in rural areas day and night. We call on you, colleagues, first of all not to take thoughtless steps; second of all, we urge you to reject the laws that have been passed directly by the government and the deputies from "The Servants of the People," where they allow you to buy land to foreigners, but still foreigners. And we want to have a broad discussion with the Ukrainian people through the U.S. referendum and the outcome of the U.S. referendum, we have made a balanced decision, because agricultural land is 72 percent of Ukrainian territory. The agricultural land and the agricultural sector today bring considerable monetary benefits. Think about the budget, and think for all of us from the budget: teachers, doctors, and all those who receive support and direct wages from the state budget. Let's do this in a balanced way. Let us consult with the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Saucuk Oksani Vasilovna, a nonfactional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u6	Oxana Savchuk, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Ivano-Frankivsk. You know, I want to say a few things today that concern society. First of all, so that the authorities do not appear to be what the Ukrainian people do not hear. Why do we have so many people out on the street today? This is happening all over Ukraine. Because people are alarmed, they do not get questions about the answers that concern them. And that's why they're starting to call out of turn for more than 30 city councils, district councils, and district councils all over Ukraine, and that's why people are coming out of the street with peaceful protests, peaceful protests, and expressing their position. Why do they do this? First of all, because they don't care what's going to happen in our country. The questions we're all worried about right now are very important. What about the market for land sales? Because today, colleagues, at 3 p.m., when the agrarian committee meets, we're going to be looking at 10 alternative bills. And we still don't understand how the Earth market procedure is going to happen, whether the Ukrainian peasant can buy it, or if the Ukrainian farmer can be competitive to be able to get the land and process it. There are many questions and not many answers. I ask everyone today, first of all, to remember that for the Ukrainian community, land is, you know, it's like our identity code, it's sewn into us. You can't just open up the market, you can't understand what's going to happen to it. On Sundays, there were these, you know, very many different meetings. On Monday, farmers took part in a massive peace movement where they handed over their addresses to the President’s Administration. The common people, the farmers, came to Kiev to say that they were definitely against the land market. They're here to have a dialogue all over the country. You know, we're going to have parliamentary hearings on December 4th. I call on the agrarian committee not to adopt any previous drafts until we hold these hearings until we have a general idea of what is going to happen. And to the end. Let us keep in mind that we have always declared openness with the community. Today, if the community comes to us, please extend their hand, let's talk, let's work it out. And I think there will be peace in Ukrainian society, and our Parliament will be as productive as the whole of society expects us to be. Thank you. And a productive day for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u7	Thank you. National MP Babenko Mikola Viktorovich, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u9	National deputy Shahov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u10	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, today the Ukrainian people are having a rainy day. Everyone's looking at the cameras, the mess hall, the crazy paces are over. Look now at the agenda: judicial reform, re-usurpation of power, re-ordered Ukrainian land, sales of strategic enterprises, destruction of the coal industry. Today I am addressing each of you, each of you factions, opposition, monocoalism, all majors: note the engine of our nation's economy, the coal sector. Our fourth team came to Kabmin, and I invite all of you to pay full attention to miners who have been out of wages for five months now. Three years from this rostrum, I've been talking about miners. Note the payouts, the feeding of families, the children are hungry, the mothers and children are standing in shops in the barn books, taking food. THE 21st century is now in the courtyard! Look where we're going. Coal is purchased in Africa, Egypt. Smuggling comes from where? It's coming from the Russian Federation. Why is it that today 100 million coals can be mined in the Lugansk region, in the Donetsk region, in the Volin region, bringing the whole country together, and the West, and the East, why is it being destroyed today? Note Minister Nasalik, who sat there and did nothing but put eight mines to close. We demand immediate inspection of those mines. We demand an immediate review of the work of the Ministry of Coal and Energy of the predecessors and today’s ministry, which allegedly united, ecology, and the energy sector. There is nothing today that could be rebuilt. There's no such thing as the Ministry of Reconstruction of Donbas. We need to intervene immediately, pay the miners billions of dollars. We demand now, the budget committee, not to go to the buffet for a break, but to go out and make a decision to make changes to the 2019 budget to pay coal miners a billion dollars. Pay for 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018. Consider, too, the blockade. 70,000 miners sit in that area, and some of them go to Poland to learn Polish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u11	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u12	They went to teach Russian in Peter, Moscow, Rostov, throwing their children away. Dear national MPs, national deputies, please turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u13	Sergey Vladislavovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u14	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. The whole story of Ukraine and Ukraine is the fight for the land. For centuries they fled to the Cossacks ’ home to have their land, not to work for a master or an innkeeper. This was also the story of Ukraine. When the Stalinic regime began a collective that ended in the Netherlands and between 7 million and 10 million Ukrainians, losing land, giving it up in so - called colportages, then went hungry, they, their children and their descendants, I don’t think this session hall has the right to ignore the memory of millions of Ukrainians. You have no right under the Constitution to give the right to sell the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of the land of Read the Constitution. You have no right to allow foreigners to buy this land. Read your bill, "The Servants of the People," which you have introduced, where you allow companies with foreign investments since the first year that worked three years in Ukraine to sell land. What are you doing? When do you actually allow five years from now free to buy and sell land to foreigners -- and you call it reform? Reforms for whom? Instead of supporting farming, individual agricultural enterprises instead of buying land from those who do not want to process it to government banks and selling the right to rent. You want the so-called earth market to be once again a famine in Ukraine. Is it not clear that a farmer working on the ground will always support a village, a school, a kindergarten? Who's going to support the big agroholdings? - schools and kindergartens, villages? Where did you see that? That's why the Fatherland faction requires one. A bill on the purchase and sale of land is only possible in one case: the land is being bought by the State, the land seems to be a long - term lease by the State. That is the answer to the challenges facing us today. I'm not talking about land that's going to be bought and sold in occupied Donetsk or in annexed Crimea. You read your bills. Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u15	Please, the national deputy of Labunska Angela Viktorovna, the political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, two Ukrainian military personnel were killed in Donbasa. Among them is Yaroslav’s wife from Poltavščina. She has a 13-year-old daughter. Her father died in Idara in 2015. And now the whole family is reunited in heaven. Actually, it's a very hard testimonial that Donbas isn't being shot, it's being shot. And in this context, yesterday's statement by the negotiating group in Minsk was very important, and it was very clear from the Ukrainian side that no political bloc could be without the execution of a key-safe. Similarly, the Ukrainian side made it very clear yesterday that Russia had to bring out foreign troops and technology, and there had to be a solution to the issue of the border. This is exactly the position that the Dust team has been taking for all these years. And we welcome this statement, and we think it's very important that the negotiating group take the right position, and we think, "No surrenders!"who helped the authorities to adjust their position and similarly showed our partners abroad that Ukraine would never betray people and territories. And in this context, my friends, we would like to see the power stop the cacophony and disorder that exists in communications when a group in Minsk, and we are convinced that it makes these statements in agreement with the President's Office, saying the right things: "the formula of Ukraine." At the same time, the foreign minister says yesterday that in order for us to endure, we need a third of our salaries and pensions to be taken from our pensioners, contrasting with the army's pensioners. Excuse me, our team has been strengthening the Ukrainian army for five years, one step at a time, paying and raising social standards. And you don't have to, please, divorce an army, contrast it to a pensioner, it's wrong. On Friday, we are waiting for the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence in Parliament, to hear from the first lips what is the "Ukrainian formula". And, you know, we don't need to impose surrender formulas on us today, obviously that's not right. We have to provide serious funding for the Ukrainian army with you in the budget. We have to start with one thing: Russian troops, Russian techniques have to leave the territory of Ukraine. And it is very important already this week in Parliament to create a temporary special commission on the proposal of the Voice, "European Solidarity", to which our colleagues from the majority have joined, in order for Parliament to stop being statisticians on foreign policy and on really reintegration. You know, it's very good that the previous Parliament has done a great service today: we've adopted the Law on Reintegration and the peculiarities of local self-government by December 31st, not October. Imagine if he had been accepted by October, what would have happened now in Parliament and on the street, which would have been a terrible vote here, and you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u17	Ten seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u18	I know it's now and still you're not getting ready for this two-way vote. Earth and peace are key issues that determine the order of this Parliament's day. Let's be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u19	The word is given to the national deputy Bakunc Pavl Andriyovich, who is nonfractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u20	Bakunec Paul, 122 constituency district, Jovkovščina, Jaborovščina Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, today in the courtyard of the sun, today in this room all warm, and to the inhabitants of the multi-thousand city of Novoyavory, as well as the city of the New Division in Lviv, there is no heat in the villages that are worse, there is no heat in the schools that are worse, there is no heat in the gardens. It is good that the Lord gives us good weather today and saves us from the cold. Tomorrow, however, colds will come to the homes, and colds will come. Diseases not only for adults but also for children, for entire families. Yes, of course, the ARMA has appointed a manager to be managed by TECs in these cities, called the "Harant Energo M" PP. Yet, they do nothing. He was at TEC himself: they do nothing in the city, they don't pay people, they lead to a technological catastrophe. I ask all of you, Prime Minister, because the ARMA is in charge of calling the ARMA representatives here to tell us why this is happening in such many thousands of cities when there is cold in the yard tomorrow. That's the first one. And the second. Honourable National Deputies, the great Metropolitan Andrei Sheptick said that every authority given from above is from God, and it is designed to serve men, not to govern them. And today I condemn the actions of this authority, which is not to serve and counsel, but in the form of administration, I have sent here to Kiev, to divide into areas of our country. No one takes into account any historical points, two huge districts, Yavorowski and Jovkowski, are left without their own circuit. It's completely insane. So I think that when I go to our minister, the entire Ministry of the Development of Territories and Communities, to look at the possibility of creating from these two areas a single unit, a particular area that will be able to live and control life in these areas, that's very important. Who doesn't believe it, I invite you to come to Yavorovska, go to the border of Gruszewski and see how beautiful the road is for every resident who enters Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u21	Comer Natalia Igorovna, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Mikola Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u22	Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Let me inform you on the following question. The Opposition Platform for Life team registered in Parliament the 2198 Resolution on the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the events on 2 May 2014 in Odessa. From this high rostrum, I would like to thank our colleagues from the "Serviary of the People" faction of Fatherland, from the "For the Future" group, who gave their representatives to this, perhaps, temporary commission of inquiry. I could say that if this commission were to be created, it would be a historic moment where Ukrainian society went on for five years. For 5 years, our team has demanded the establishment of this temporary commission of inquiry in Parliament. Today, this issue will be addressed on a regulatory committee, and I would very much like representatives of all factions to have enough political will to support this issue. I would very much like to see this issue in this week's session hall and voted by the Ukrainian Parliament. I would very much like the other two factions, who have not yet given their representatives, to change their perspective and, nevertheless, to give their candidates to work on the interim commission of inquiry on 2 May in Odessa. I believe that the work of this commission will give serious impetus to the investigation of these events, will give a serious presidency to the Ukrainian society, which has really changed, that the authorities really want to investigate the crimes of previous years, that the authorities are really set up to find and punish those responsible for the events in Maidan, for the murder in Odessa, for the resonance killings that have taken place over these years. It's really going to be a demonstration of what's changed, not just the face, not just the name. This will be the moment that will really be able to bring together a Ukrainian society that will give impetus to truly civil peace and the unification of our society around the goals that Ukraine really needs. Because we have to understand, and this has to be understood by every citizen, this has to be understood by the world community, that in Ukraine there is one law for all, not one for activists, but one for others, but one law for all. That's how we're going to win! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u23	The word is given to the People's Deputy Dubyl. Aah! Excuse me! Krulko Ivanovitch, political party of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. We are in the state budget for 2020. And let's look at at at least one of the expenditure articles in the State budget: more than a third of the total budget -- that's over 400 billion dollars -- is planned next year to spend on public debt servicing and repayment. Can you imagine any state allowing itself to pay a third of the budget in external debt? And this deal that was signed by the Minister of Finance to former Mrs. Jaresko, which is totally inconvenient for Ukraine, which places the Ukrainian economy on its knees and programmes it for permanent failure, because if we start to grow more than 3 percent of GDP, we start to pay the external creditor an incomprehensible and unknown amount that is not fixed in the debt restructuring agreement, and then we ask ourselves questions, and at what cost to raise social standards, how to raise minimum wages, pensions, how to provide assistance to the agar sector, how to implement other infrastructure programs, such as road construction. And here's the resource in the budget -- 400 billion dollars that could be aimed at raising social costs and spending enough. That's why today, my call from our "Paternity" team, from all those who understand what is really the right approach to budgeting, to negotiate immediately with our external creditors, to sign a new debt restructuring agreement that should take into account reality when the Ukrainian economy can't moan. We don't have the right to grow less than 3 percent, because we're never going to get anywhere near those standards that are in neighbouring countries, although in Poland, I'm not talking about other countries of the European Union anymore. And if the ambitious plans that Prime Minister Honcharuk announced from this rostrum want to be at least a little bit implemented and the Ukrainian economy wants to start growing at the rate that we once showed, and in the time of the Yulia government, Timoshenko's economy grew 9 percent and even 12 percent of GDP, then it is certainly necessary to change the debt restructuring agreement. And we're talking to the government: in negotiating with external creditors, in shaping the budget for the second reading, we're really going to change the approach, and we're going to channel the resource that's going to go to repay the debt, to raise the social standards that are going to help start up the Ukrainian economy and increase the payability of Ukrainian citizens. This is the policy, the Ukrainian policy that you need today, the country for which people thank both the government and the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u25	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u26	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. The distinguished Ukrainian people, the honourable members of the Ukrainian Parliament, yesterday as a national deputy, became aware that businessman Maxim Mikitas, along with the Nazgardia officials, had implemented a scheme whereby our army defenders, who were to receive 50 apartments and 30 parking spaces in the center of the capital, were evicted to hell by the balls, after the equipment of the plots, on the outskirts of Kiev. This has all been made possible by an assessor who has lowered the cost of living, think of 81.6 million dollars. In Ukraine, there's a cassette of an estimated mafia, which reduces the cost of millions of apartments, for several thousand dollars, and the cost of state-owned enterprises where "watchers" are previously sitting are too high in the heavens to keep corruption schemes going. And these are billions, billions of taxes, pensions, and salaries for our military personnel. Our Parliament is to destroy this Soviet corrupt nomenclature. We have to remove the human factor from the assessment by introducing the tools of dijitalization. Yeah, it'll be hard, yeah, they'll be watering us down with dirt, but only when we do, we won't be ashamed of you to watch every soldier spilling blood for our Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for performances is up. I have an announcement. Dear colleagues, we need to consider today the draft Decree, Registration No. 2265, on the participation of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in constitutional conduct and No. 2266 on the appointment of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. That is why I am asking to hold a committee and to consider these draft decisions urgently and to give the Supreme Council conclusions on them. I suggest that the committee hold a meeting at 12 o'clock on the third floor of the meeting room. This will allow us to include this issue in the agenda of the plenary today. Thank you. Let's move on to Bill 1008, back to truer. Edit 190, Slavicka. Don't insist. 191st, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, please step aside because you can't see. National deputy of Bakumov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u28	Thank you, Mr. Head. I will not insist on all my rights, especially those that contain a more technical nature. But there are a number of rights that are important to me, and I will, with your permission, make them sound. One of them is this paper. This is about adding to section 3, paragraph 3, of the first article, 24 of the law an additional basis for the release of a member of the IDP, namely the failure to comply with ethical standards. But that question is also addressed in paragraph 4 of this article. The point is that in the case of the circumstances provided for in article 6 of the Law, I quote you in article 6. "Members of the High Council of Justice in their activities and beyond shall abide by the ethical standards established for the judge." So we're going to have a situation where, in fact, at two different points, the same basis for liberation is going to be. That might be the reason, God forbid, for people to get mixed up in making a decision about a link or something, and there'll be a serious window of opportunity and abuse, any court rulings you don't want. That's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u30	Good morning, dear colleagues. We're going to continue to do 1008 today. Since we're going back to the lines that contain the words "exclusion," and we see that the number 191 amendment again contains the word "exclusion from the bill," I remind you that everything that is excluded from the presidential bill changes the model and leaves the previous mechanisms that existed. As for the data that is now coming into the media, the entire Supreme Council rejects other amendments. I'm bringing to your attention that out of 330 rights, 50 rights have been counted. This amendment was not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u31	Ruslan Petrovich, do you insist on voting? Irina Valentine's Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u32	The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u33	Do you insist on voting? I'll bet you a vote. Don't insist. Thank you very much. Edit 192, Alekseiv. Edit 192, Alekseiv.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u34	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Please tell me, will you insist on any corrections? Please turn on Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u36	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I spoke on that point yesterday. My revisions are 185, 192, and 248 are completely duplicated by Stefanchuk. And Stefanchuk's writings were taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u37	248, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u38	Yeah, and 248. I'm going to insist on 255. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u39	Thank you. 193 correct, Krulko. Don't insist. 194th, Jurchishin. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u40	I really want a little more time on my books, I'm not going to insist on everyone else. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u41	Give me two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u42	I fully agree with the proposed selection process before. In fact, the commission, the approach, the creation of a commission and the selection of members of the WCC, as well as the ethical commission at the GWP, is very progressive. For this great thanks to the committee, a huge job is actually done. But I agree that there could be a concept of a project that can't be destroyed. There are two things that are very much on the lookout, and I'd like to put them in the queue. They're not allowing the factions of the Voice to vote in favour of this really necessary bill. The first is not yet explained by the decrease in the number of Supreme Court judges to 100. At the same time, when we have an adequate mechanism, we have the conclusions of the Public Council of Virtue, which clearly give us a sense of who is at risk and who is not at risk. Let's do an adequate qualification review, we're going to have a sufficient number, and we're going to have a high-quality court. Sadly, they refuse to do so. The second moment is the delicate throat of this reform. The court, which has adopted, has effectively annulled the decision of the Nationalization of Privatbank, the court that blocked the competition on the head of the customs service, has effectively blocked the competition that was awarded as a result of Maxim Nefoodov, the court which reopened the seat of the Head of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Shevchuk, and will now consider all complaints concerning the commission. Colleagues, you're creating a delicate throat of this reform and it has every chance of failing as a previous one. I don't insist, unfortunately, that the Servants of the People didn't hear, unfortunately, these adequate suggestions, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u43	Thank you, Jaroslav Romanovich. Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Thank you. Amendment number 195.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u44	Colleagues relating to the 195th Amendment. I want to draw your attention, because the committee itself has actually counted 55 rights from other national MPs, so the 195 Stefanchuk line is a little bit balanced by the model. So we want to put this amendment on the confirmation of the Supreme Council and ask Ruslan Alexiyovich whether he insists on it. Ruslan Alexiyovich does not insist. And this right over here is balancing the model. Please, let's put her in for confirmation of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the author does not insist on it. The committee proposes to place it on confirmation. So I'm voting for 195 people's deputies, Stefanchuk. Please identify and vote. [[10:54:37]] For-49 Amendment 195. For 49. Edit is not supported. Let's move on. Edit 196, Calchenko. Don't insist. 197, Knazevitch. Thank you. 198, Krulko. Don't you think she'll insist on hers? Thank you. 199. Jaroslav Romanovich, you don't insist, do you? 200th. Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u46	Now the vote for the annulment of Stefanchuk's rights confirms that the law, the draft law, has been balanced and remains balanced. And the reason for this is that the law was written cool. Our international partners, lawyers, MPs were not involved. Each right that is passed and adopted is trying to balance the law. But I'm afraid every amendment can't do it by just one vote. Today, we are trying to include members of the Commission on Integrity and Ethics, such as members of the High Council of Justice. How will they choose who goes in there? And how the members of the High Council of Justice, not the experts, not the judges in retirement, not the scientists in this committee, no one explains. I'm asking you to support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u48	Olega Anatoliyovich, Stefanchuk's right, directly in 195th, was involved in a joint meeting of the Ethics and Virtue Commission and the High Council of Justice on the release of a member of the Council of Justice. And we understand that the previous rights that we have approved make these joint meetings impossible and will stand by the decision to release the members of the High Council of Justice. It's about Stefanchuk's work. Your 200th revision, now that we're discussing, refers to another. You're just detailing who might be appointed by the Higher Council of Justice. We insist on the drafting proposed by the bill so that there is no detail, and therefore the narrowing down of the people who might be, the circle of persons who might be offered by the High Council of Justice. The committee did not support your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? At the vote? I'm betting on the vote number 200 of the people's MP Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[10:57:41]] Z-70. Edit is not supported. Let's move on. Edit 207, Babi. Don't insist. 218 law, Vlasenko. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u50	As far as 218 revisions are concerned, the situation is as follows. According to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Volkov v. Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice, then called it the Supreme Council of Justice, is a quasi-judicial body, a quasi-judicial body, when dealing with the question of the disciplinary responsibility of judges and the question of the dismissal of judges. What is it now suggested that we do in this bill? It turns out that the Commission on Integrity and Ethics will facilitate the integration of the members of the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Committee of Thought Judges in the exercise of their powers. It turns out that decisions will not be made on the basis of law but on the basis of public opinion. How will this happen? No one knows. If 100 people come with one mind, 100 people with a second thought, as the Supreme Council of Justice will do, no one understands, but I have never heard a judicial or quasi-judicial body, apart from the law, be guided by public opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u51	Thank you. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u52	Sergei Volodymyrovich, this is really about promoting public opinion, but it's only up to the High Council of Justice to decide, and we've even ruled out 195, there's not going to be a joint session. As you may recall, President Zelenski signed a Memorandum with public organizations on openness and transparency, and the involvement of public organizations in all judicial proceedings. Therefore, promoting public opinion in no way diminishes the mandate of the High Council of Justice. Amendment 218 by the committee is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u53	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the 218 vote, it's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[11:00:21]] For-81 81. The decision is not taken. 225th, Makarov. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u54	Colleagues, this article, article 28-1, refers to the formation of a Commission on Goodness and Ethics. But in the course of the discussion, no one gave me an answer as to whether we have a National Anti-Corruption Bureau in the country, and whether we have NAMK, NABU and other bodies that have to check by their statute and their functions what seems to be the creation of a Commission of Goodness and Ethics. It will be guided by completely wrong grounds for making decisions regarding members of the High Council of Justice. I believe that this order of formation and functioning of the Commission on Goodness and Ethics goes beyond the logic of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u55	Lies down, Anatolyovich, and this is the Ethics and Virtue Commission. NABU is about crimes. So in this case, you don't have to confuse crimes with ethical norms, so your committee is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u56	Do you insist on voting? I can't see, dear fellows. Step away, please. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 225 Makarov's. The committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:02:29]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Edit 227. Cool. What are you going to insist on? Which one?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u57	All of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u58	229th, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u59	This amendment refers to the provision of organizational and material and technical work by the commission, which is proposed to be carried out by the secretariat of the High Council of Justice. If you are already making such a commission, you need a completely different commission. Differences from what is proposed in the law, the order of security. Because in this way the High Council of Justice can influence the Commission on Virtue and Ethics. If you are already relying on them to follow virtue and ethics and be financially dependent, this will be far worse. That's why I'm suggesting we rule this out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u60	It is absolutely logical that the secretariat in this case will be provided with this very source of funding. Moreover, your amendment, besides excluding organizational material security, does not provide an alternative, it simply says "exclusion." Therefore, the committee did not support the bill, leaving the funding to be provided by law. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u61	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 229 Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:04:25]] For-78 The decision is not taken. I thank Ruslan Kniezewicz for his position on the line. Thank you. 232nd, Puzanov. Don't insist. 233, Babi. Don't insist. 234th, Vlasenko. Are you going to insist on some kind of a readjustment? Which one would you like to say, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u62	And I'll keep the intrigue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u63	Thank you. 236th Sobolev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I address the faction of the "Serve of the People" first. Look what happened. Three days ago you voted in favour of the Act on Natural Entrepreneurs and on how to destroy them. Yesterday, President Zelenski, after meeting with civil society organizations of entrepreneurs, decides to ban them for two years. Well, do you understand what they're doing to Parliament? So you vote first for such a law and then you cancel it! Let's tell the truth. Same thing now. My amendment is very simple: if this relates to the public secret and private details of a person’s life, the meeting should be held in a closed session in an advisory room. What's not clear? How can such a standard be taken? I demand that this rule remain! And then vote for my draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u65	Colleagues, it's a closed session and counseling room, you don't have to confuse "God" with "righteous." In fact, the closed sessions of the High Council of Justice remain, and the cases where the closed sessions of the High Council of Justice are held, just as you mentioned, remain in the bill: personal, confidential things, private life, and so on. In addition, things that go according to the decisions of the members of the High Council of Justice. Indeed, the counseling room is being deprived. That's a little bit different. The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 236, National Deputy Soboljev. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:07:04]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 238, Sphinx. Don't insist. Is there a spinov in the hall? No, it's not. Thank you. 239th. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's that? 240 law, Knyazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u67	Thank you, Mr. Head! I'll be at 240, 252, 256, 286 more. This is about the next one. Now the current text of article 42 tells us that disciplinary conduct begins after a complaint in accordance with the disciplinary misconduct of a judge meets the requirements of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, i.e. there are certain requirements in the law that the complaint should be: properly formulated, contained certain propriety, proper subject. There must be a complainant and so on. And the editorial, adopted in the first reading and left to the second reading, states that immediately after receiving a complaint, whether or not it meets the requirements of the law, disciplinary conduct should begin. That's not true, it's contrary to legislation in general, and above all, to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u69	In fact, the committee really didn't support this amendment because it's changing, again, we're talking about models, Ruslan Petrovich, changing the approach to understanding the model. And we've talked about this before, and at the committee meeting, including. Yes, and approaches are changing, and time limits are changing, and that's what this bill is about. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u70	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 240 people's deputies, Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:09:14]] Z-71 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 242, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u71	Colleagues, the drafters of the bill propose the possibility of initiating an anonymous report or the initiative of members of the High Council of Justice. Do you understand the corrupt risks of such a norm? Whole botofphers will be created to overwhelm the High Council of Justice with anonymous complaints, and the very principles of judges who carry out complex cases, including criminal cases, including cases involving the State, including cases involving the Ukrainian oligarchs. And now we're allowing the body that's dealing with personal matters and dealing with the question of disciplinary responsibility to the judge, we're allowing this body to be overwhelmed by anonymous complaints. I would now like to exclude the mention that cases may be brought up on their own at the initiative of a member of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u72	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u73	Lies down Anatolyovich, you've already scared everyone on the committee with these, you know, loud phrases, "anonymous." But that's not what this is about. Carefully, colleagues, read this article. The point is that disciplinary conduct can begin after the members of the High Council of Justice are self-discovered from any source of circumstance. So the point is that a member of the High Council of Justice can actually find corrupting information, for example, in the media, and start testing. What's wrong with that? This isn't about anonymity. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u74	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? 242 law, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. I'm betting on the vote, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:11:37]] For-84 The decision is not taken. 244, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u75	I will continue this discussion, because it is in article 42 that we are allowed to violate the conduct of a complaint that is not in conformity with the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. And I started with 42 articles, because 44 clearly says that a complaint can be filed, a complaint that is not signed and does not contain a name. Thus, these two articles are combined. And just as I claimed this would call into question the independence of the judges, so all these articles are linked. So I insist that they should all vote in turn. And to exclude the possibility of filing a case only on the basis of an anonymous report and just one member of the High Council of Justice without specifying where he took this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u76	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u77	Lies down, Anatolyovich, in this case, your revision is simply a different way of explaining the norm. And in your lecture, you're missing a refusal to open up. So the committee didn't support the amendment, because there's a significant change in the approach to the standard. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u78	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 244 people's deputies, Makarov, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[11:13:34]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 245, Makarov. Thank you. 247, Krulko. 250th, Makarov. What are you going to insist on? What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u79	54th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u80	54, there is. 54th Amendment, Makarov. All right, 54, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u81	Colleagues, we go back to the fact that anonymous messages, any messages that aren't signed, in which the author is not assigned, can't be a reason to violate disciplinary conduct. I am in general adhering to the rule that complaints against judges are only allowed to be filed by lawyers who are required to sign, their testimony number, and to guarantee that what is written there is written knowingly, professionally. And they are responsible for their legal testimony if there is some nonsense or deliberate slander written there. Any complaints that are made anonymously in any social network that falls outside any legal way to the High Council of Justice should not be grounds for bringing the judge to justice, especially before the case is dismissed and the judge is diverted from the trial and the performance of his duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u82	Oleg Anatoliyovich, I don't think the Ukrainian people will like the idea that complaints from ordinary people, not just lawyers, are distracting the judge from justice. It should be reminded that the judge is there and wears this robe in order to consider and ensure the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of people, citizens. So the denial of citizens' rights to file complaints would be illegal and, I think, in our country, it would be totally unfair. Therefore, the amendment is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u83	Thank you. Are you insisting on your right? I'm betting on the vote of 254, People's Deputy Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:16:24]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Edit 255, Alekseiv. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u84	This amendment applies to the rights of the complainant during disciplinary proceedings. The point is that the bill was proposed mainly to the judge before the complainant. And in the proposed drafting of the bill, the only reason for carrying on disciplinary conduct is that the judge is not informed and that the complainant is not involved. With my permission, I propose that the right of the complainant and the judge should also be duly informed and that this should also be the basis for the failure of the complainant to properly communicate his disciplinary conduct. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u85	Colleagues, the term "in legal proceedings", the term "in due course reported," we know very well by all procedural codes that this is, in principle, one of the possibilities of delaying processes. The amendments to the laws proposed by Bill 1008, therefore, make it impossible to minimize the abuse of time and process. This is the reason why the committee rejected the appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 255 people's deputies, Alekseyev. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:18:08]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Edited number 256, Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u87	Thank you. Well, I don't get it. If it is believed that a person has been informed, if he or she has been duly informed, and this is delaying the trial, why should we add in article 47 that the Disciplinary Chamber can deal with a complaint and a case without the involvement of a judge or a complainant, unless he has been duly informed? We're contradicting ourselves. In fact, without a judge or a complainant's participation, it's impossible, because there's a huge number of other important reasons that can make it impossible for a judge to participate, for example, if he's assigned to court hearings, or if, for example, he's sick or something else, or if the complainant hasn't been able to get there in time. Without their involvement in dealing with the matter, it means opening a window of opportunity for abuse. This is unacceptable at the legislative level. Thank you. Please support my work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u88	Ruslan Petrovich, there is no contradiction here, because part three contains a specific rule: "In the absence of a judge, the complainant's disciplinary hearing is carried out by the Disciplinary Chamber without their participation except in cases where the judge has not been informed or notified of a violation of part four." So that's what this is all about. In this case, it wasn't proposed, and it wasn't supported by an amendment that allows for another kind of treatment. Edit is not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 256 People's Deputy Knazević. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:20:01]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 257, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u90	It's technical. I don't know why she wasn't accepted on the committee. See, it is written that in the absence of a judge or a complainant, a disciplinary hearing is carried out by the Disciplinary Chamber without their participation, except in cases where a judge is involved. - and "the defendant" was forgotten, missed, not reported. Thus, if not reported to the judge, the case is considered. If the complainant is not informed, the matter may be taken up without him. The complainant in this case is the same person, if he really has a last name and knows that he wants to participate in the meeting, he needs to be informed. If not reported, we should be moved. I would insist on including the word "complaint" in this order. And please vote, that's what he's doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u91	Lies down Anatolyovich, you've rightly pointed out that correction is technical. It wasn't counted because we've just considered the previous three remedies on the same basis as in other procedures. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u92	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 257 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee didn't support her. I'd like to make up my mind. Vote. [[11:21:29]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Edit 258, Aleksiev. What kind of regulations are you going to insist on? Last one? Please turn on Alexei's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The bill has considerably reduced disciplinary conduct. In general, you've included turbots in the discipline of judges. This amendment refers to the fact that the disciplinary notice of the time and place of sitting has been shortened from 7 days to 3 days. But a person can be on a mission, somewhere else, has time to prepare. The absolute normal term is 7 days. Also, the perfectly normal term for disciplining a judge is 60 days. Why cut it down to 30 days? Even if you ask questions, you will not be able to answer them. Why cancel these lines to this extent? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u94	Colleagues, what kind of turbine could this be? I informed you yesterday that I had come to the committee for an answer from the High Council of Justice, which was asked by the chairman of the committee in 2014. That's what the High Council of Justice's complaints are all about. It's been five years. Therefore, these approaches really need to be changed to deal with the complaints of the High Council of Justice. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u95	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote of 258 people's deputies, Alekseyev, and the committee supports it. Please identify and vote. [[11:23:33]] For-75 The decision is not taken. 261, Makarov. What adjustments will you insist on? All of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u96	Turn this on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u97	261.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u98	My proposals are intended to ensure that a person, a judge in the present case, is entitled to a proper hearing of his or her case. A person should have a protective mechanism, including the possibility of giving his own explanation of the complaint, to be present during the examination of a disciplinary complaint. The text in the bill excluded the paragraph, more specifically, the reference to additional information being collected during the preparation of the case and to the explanation of the judge and the complainant, and to the judicial file. I believe that this, as you yourself have said, would harm the actual justice and independence of the judges. So from 3 years of consideration to 3 days, there's a very big difference, and I think there's a normal way of looking at it, a fair way to think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u99	Oleg Anatoliyovich, your editing does not directly apply to the dates, you do not need to mislead the hall. Your amendment refers directly to the deletion of sub-paragraph 13, paragraph 3, which really relates to the collection and processing of information. That is why the committee did not support the amendment by leaving the presidential bill. I think the commission can and the members of the committee can figure out how to collect information, and you can't deprive them of their right to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u100	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 261 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee did not support it, so please identify and vote. [[11:25:53]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Please tell me, will you insist on the following revisions? 63rd, 65th, okay. 63rd, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u101	See what is now being suggested: The judge and the complainant should be informed of the meetings of the Disciplinary Chamber no later than three days later. It's been seven days. Do you realize it's a judge, he's got a case schedule, he's got to be prepared, if he's second-born, he's got to take tickets, prepare his speech, get to know the material of the case? Why did we change seven to three? The shortening of this term will result in the failure of the judge to properly prepare and participate in his case at the Disciplinary Chamber, which in turn may have a negative impact on the judge’s ability to effectively defend himself in the face of charges against him and make the judge vulnerable to unjustified persecution. Also, the term of the judge's notice should be increased to 7 days, and I insist. Please vote, this is normal: 7 days to give a person a chance to prepare and come to a meeting. Three days is just a challenge, like in the army: running comes -- and start looking into your own business. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u102	Oleg Anatoliyovich, judges take decisions on behalf of Ukraine every day. And they realize that they will be able to answer for each decision made and made in the name of Ukraine by their own name. So I think they're ready for this. On the other hand, when we see the calls at a conference of judges from all over Ukraine on intercontinentals, they're getting ready and leaving in one day. I think that for enough powerful and important reasons, such as a challenge to the Justice Council, they will be able to come and provide information. Edit is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u103	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? 263, Makarov. The committee does not support this operation. Please identify and vote. [[11:28:09]] For-79 The decision is not taken. 265, Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u104	Colleagues, I don't know what the judges' participation in this conference is, to suggest to the judges that they are raising their professional level and attending conferences. I don't know what we're talking about, what law we're talking about. What kind of law we're considering right now. And this is 265 for the next one. Now an article has been removed from the law saying: "With the judge's motivated concern, the Disciplinary Chamber may also pass a decision on a disciplinary case in a closed session, if it is necessary to ensure the independence of the judge. The decision to consider disciplinary matters in a closed session on this basis shall be considered approved if it has been voted in favour of all members of the Disciplinary Chamber." A normal law that provides for the possibility of a closed procedure only in cases where it is necessary to ensure independence in court. Why was she expelled? Why was it expelled from the law? I suggest you return this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u105	Lies down Anatolyovich, we're talking 265 right now? 265, Oleg Anatolyovich. Yeah. It's just that you're actually proposing to exclude section I, paragraph 14, paragraph 3. If you look at it, it's in the previous line. Yes, of course it's a draft of the Presidential Bill, I remind you, and according to this model, there's a closed session of the disciplinary chamber on two grounds, and they're explained. Edit rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u106	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Amendment No. 265 of the people's MP Makarov. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[11:30:34]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Regulation 266. 268, Knyazevich. 269, Makarov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u107	Irina Valentinovna, you'd be more comfortable if you could see what the president's draft excludes. I'm talking about the amendments that he ruled out, the ones that regulate the order of the closed meeting. As far as I'm concerned, it's 269. This amendment retains the standard in its current form, based on the following: "The principle of the work of the college body foresees the adoption of a single decision based on the results of a joint analysis and a discussion in the advisory room with the aim of avoiding any foreign influence on the opinion of the members of the body. The secret of the advisory room is the guarantee of the principle of the independence of the council members, the subordination of them only by law and the need for the decision-making of the college body." My amendment concerns the possibility of discussing a decision in an advisory room. Why the Presidential project ruled it out, I don't understand, there's no explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u108	My colleagues, I would like to inform you that the issue of closed meetings and counseling rooms has been discussed repeatedly at a committee meeting on Bill 1008. Once again, let me stress that the model is really changing, we're really moving away from counseling rooms in this case. So in order to leave the model unbalanced and the idea of how the meetings were to go, Oleg Anatoliyevich's rights were rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u109	Do you insist on voting? There is a vote of 265 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. Please vote and determine. 269, I'm sorry, 269. [[11:32:51]] Z-72. The decision is not taken. Next line is 270, National MP Makarov. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u110	I'm going to say very briefly here that the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber was foreseen in five days, writing and publishing, now in three days. Well, you all know that in a five - day period you have not reached, and now you have to fight for an existing standard, and if you reduce it to three days, it will not be implemented either. Why would you do that? In order, once again, to balance the work of the Disciplinary Chamber? I don't get it. I propose to vote on my amendment and return the five - day term.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u111	Today is a seven - day term. And that's why. And you offer to make a five - day deadline. So, colleagues, the idea of periods, you see, goes through the red thread in us: everything changes into a three-day term. That's why Makarov's amendment was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u112	Do you insist on voting? You insist. There is a vote of 270 people's deputies, Makarov. The committee proposes to reject it. Please vote and determine. [[11:34:15]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Next issue is 271, People's Deputy Alekseiv. Are you insisting? No, it's not. Next issue is 272, People's Deputy Knazević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u113	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. I have a question for the next character. If we are really concerned about the complainant’s rights, why are we narrowing the deadlines from 30 to 10 days on the filing of a complaint appropriate to the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber? On the contrary, if we want to ensure the rights of the complainant, we should logically extend these terms, we narrow them down. The 10-day deadlines are too small for me. There are cases where a 10-day term does not even produce a decision of the Disciplinary Chamber. It's barely enough for people to make it to 30 days. If we now set such a short deadline, it will significantly limit the possibility of accusing such decisions. I propose leaving the lines that are, even though they are in practice less or less sufficient to properly form a complaint about the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u114	Ruslan Petrovich, well, let's be consistent. If we really want to compare the rights of both the complainants and the judges and the members of the commission, let's understand that in this case, if we're reducing the terms of the judges' coming, and so on, in this case they're decreasing, it's logical, and the terms of the complaint. A 10-day term is a good time to file a complaint. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u115	Please tell me you insist on voting? Are you insisting? Ruslan Petrovich! Yeah. Dear colleagues, the number 272 of the People's Deputy Knazević is voted on. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Please vote and determine. [[11:36:11]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Amendment 273, People's Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. Amendment 274, People's Deputy Vlasenko. Of course. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u116	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I just want to remind you that there is no principle of any process, including a disciplinary process like speed. There's objectivity, there's universality, there's legality, there's completeness, there's no speed, there's no such principle. That's the first one. Secondly, in the law that existed before this bill, and so there were shorter terms of consideration and complaints, and statements, generally all procedural terms were shortened. Shorter term only when running electoral matters, as this is due to the speed of the electoral process. So I have another question: Why and why? Because these are the biggest questions we ask during the discussion of this bill. We asked why the judges were reduced from 200 to 100, why the powers of the High Council of Justice and the Higher Qualifications Commission were mixed: I have another question: why is the 30-day deadline cut to 10 for filing a complaint? And I have a simple question for you, Mrs. Reporter. I want you to use these lines for yourself in the future. And you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u117	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I thank you so much for your kind and sincere soul and for your wishes. The answer to my question will apply to the same amendment as Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, because it is the same exact right. And you already got the answer. Again, I stress that we have to fight not only with the legislative spam, but also with the spam of the complainants. And that's why for the model balance it's absolutely logical and acceptable. The committee dismissed you, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u118	Are you insisting? National MP Vlasenko, are you insisting? Yours. Yes, you insist, yes. It's a vote of 274, People's Deputy Vlasenka. The committee didn't support it. Please vote and determine. [[11:38:42]] For-73 The decision is not taken. Order 275, People's Deputy Puzanova. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Order 276, National Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. Order 277, People's Deputy Makarov. Are you insisting? Nope. I can't see. Can I see the people's MP Makarov? Please give the floor to the national MP Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u119	I insist. Could you turn me on for a moment, please, because we've been shut down here first?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u120	Please include the time of the national MP Makarov first. And don't close it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u121	It is suggested that an editorial that provides that a complaint about the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber to bring disciplinary responsibility to a judge will stop the use of discipline. The Presidential Bill has somehow ruled out this rule. A person should not be subjected to discipline at the time of his accusation. In order not to allow for negative consequences, both for the execution of the contested decision and for the possible subsequent return to execution, it is worth leaving this rule in its proper form. That's an obvious fact. A decision taken, a person disagrees, charges the decision in the order prescribed by law. And at that time, he can continue to do his job, awaiting a decision on his complaint, except in certain cases, when it is written about it, a complaint of withdrawal. I'm convinced that we should leave this rule in the old order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u122	Colleagues, we understand perfectly what we're leaving behind. changing some standards, leaving other rules, what are we talking about? We're going to bring to ourselves these kinds of lines that are going to completely inhibit the mechanism of work. The committee therefore rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u123	Are you insisting on your right? Voting, right? Dear colleagues, we have a vote of 277 people's deputies, Makarov. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Please vote and determine. [[11:41:10]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Edit 278, Babi's National MP. Don't insist. Order 279, National Deputy Osadchuk. Don't insist. readjustment 281, People's Deputy Makarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u124	Colleagues, a 12 - to - 5 - day reduction in the appeal period, are radical and unwarranted. Within five days, it is not possible to examine the situation thoroughly for the purpose of their impartial and objective assessment. Keeping the 5-day period in practice is extremely difficult. And a permanent violation of this term will undermine confidence in the legality of such a procedure and in the Supreme Council of Justice as a whole. In view of this, it's suggested that we cut the deadline, but not by 12 times, but at least from 5 days to 10 days, I'm writing. Let's vote on this rule. Five days won't hold up anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u125	Colleagues, issues of time were discussed very closely at the committee meeting. Well, unfortunately, you weren't there, you weren't there. We've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Strucky? We discussed it. Oleg Anatoliyovich, you've allowed Valentina Ivanovna Daneševski every time on all the issues that were considered important to the judiciary, and that was almost all the questions. So all the questions were raised on the committee and discussed. Therefore, the committee remained in the position that time-limits would be prescribed as indicated in the bill. The Board of Corrections rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u126	Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, the number 271 of the Makarov People's Deputies is voted on. Committee editing rejected. Please vote and determine. [[11:43:16]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Next item is 282, People's Deputy Makarov. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u127	Actually, it's a decision-making period that changes from 5 days to 3 days, but that's not the point. This is my last amendment. I want to say that the consideration of this bill, both in the first and in the committee and in the plenary, says that this law is not balanced. We're all trying to improve it, but we can't improve this bill. Why? Because he wasn't involved in his work, he didn't listen to the Supreme Court's opinion, and as a result, he's balanced and he's going to hurt, believe me, he's going to hurt the investment climate in Ukraine. And international institutions and associations. The European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Ukrainian Entrepreneurs expressed their great concern at trying to interfere with the independence of the judicial system. We will not uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u128	Oleg Anatolyovich, we are now, and the honourable colleagues on the hall, we are now discussing complaints to the High Council of Justice. So, of course, it's great to mention the investment climate in this case, everything else. But our voters with you, all the factions, want a fair trial. They want the Supreme Council of Justice to give timely conclusions on those judges who were thought to have made unjust decisions. That's why the question of time is still here. The committee left. We're discussing the lines again. The committee left the previous ones marked in the model, string. I didn't support the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u129	Are you insisting on voting? You insist. Dear colleagues, the 282nd People's Deputies of Makarov vote. The Board of Corrections proposes to reject. Please vote and determine. [[11:45:44]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Next line is 283, National Deputy Calchenka. Don't you insist? Don't insist. Next issue is 284, People's Deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. Ivanovich Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u130	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I now address the presidency of the Supreme Council and the deputies of the "Serve of the People" faction. Listen carefully to what is involved in this amendment. This amendment refers to the fact that the decision of the Competition Commission to elect members of the WCC and the Ethics Commission, which will assess the release of members of the High Council of Justice, was appealed to the Supreme Court of Ukraine. If you do not support this amendment, all complaints will come to Kyiv’s District Administrative Court, this odious court, which makes scandalous decisions. Let's think about it, because then there'll be an impression in everyone that the telephone law will continue to work and the court will act on the principle of what you choose. So I suggest that there be no more ominous court decisions on these issues, even though we accept this amendment. And all decisions and complaints will be dealt with by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Please support this amendment, it is extremely important for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u131	Ivan Ivanovich, we talked about this with Mr. Jurchisin yesterday, and that was really talked about yesterday with the Voice faction, which was necessary. And the media also say that let's take these complaints to the Supreme Court. It's about competitive commissions, it's about complaints by a competition commission, not decisions by the VCC and the VWP. So if we look closely at 284 revisions, you'll see, honourable colleagues, look at it, there's not just a transfer to the OASC, there's a training and disciplinary commission of prosecutors and so on. So it's serious enough, and it's important enough, and the committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u132	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u133	Ladies and gentlemen of the committee, first of all, I want to thank you for commenting today, because we did not comment last night, thank you for that. But I suggest, then let's do this correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u134	That's it, thank you. A replica on the line, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u135	Ivanovich, I answer the line. Last night, from fourth to sixth, I commented on all the changes, and the fact that you weren't in the hall is very different, just be in your place of work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are you insisting? Ivan Ivanovich, you insist on a vote of 284. I can't hear you. Ivanovich, come on, what else did you want? Will you all be there? Okay. Dear colleagues, 284 members of the People’s Parliament, Krulka, have been dismissed by the committee of law. Please vote and determine. [[11:49:22]] For-82 For 82. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, number 285, the People's Deputy of Bujansky. Please include the people's representative of Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u137	Colleagues, this is a technical amendment to the Final and Transitional Regulations, it's approved by the committee, please support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u138	Colleagues, that's absolutely right, it's an amendment that at the moment was simply overlooked by the committee, because we're prescribing in the bill a procedure like that. It's really a "transitional" position. I mean, it's the right thing to call it "The End and the Transition." The committee supports the law of the People's Deputy of Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There's a proposal from the people's representative of Bujansky, number 285, she's been rejected by the committee, but the state of mind of the committee today does not deny, but I understand she's proposing to support this amendment, after all. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please support and vote in favour of the 285 People's Deputies of Bujansky. [[11:51:50]] For 268. 268. Edit included. Amendment No. 286, People's Deputy Knazević. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u140	Thank you, Mr. Head! This is actually about the Transitional, and now it's about the Transitional and End Regulations, which, for me, is actually a quintension of this law. We're talking about the law, the vast body of the law, and the essence of the law lies in the Transitional Positions, which we quietly, from the day we take effect with this law, which immediately becomes effective after it's published, ceases to be authorized by the Higher Qualification of Judges. In what way, no one even reads that there is a certain order, are defined. In the law. Without any rule of law, without any explanation, without any justification, we simply cease the actual authorization of the composition. In addition, account is taken of the law, which, within 30 days of the commission’s work, will in fact terminate the powers of members of the High Council of Justice. Since the Constitution expressly prohibits this because there is a deadline and a basis for the release of members of the IDPs, it was decided simply in "Transitional positions" for 30 days, as if quietly, by means of a check by the commission to release all those members of the IDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, Ruslan Petrovich, you cannot speak so loudly that no one reads or counts. They read and count. But the committee did not support this amendment. From the point of view of, indeed, the general approach, so that then the bill, which introduces changes, does not work and does not stop, the committee does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u142	Do you insist, Ruslan Petrovich? There is a vote of 286 people's deputies, Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Request to vote and determine. [[11:53:56]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Amendment 287, People's Deputy Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. Are you insisting? Please, Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u143	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'm so sorry that the 284 was broken. Similarly, it is confirmed that there is no desire for order in the judicial system. And if you'll excuse me, if this bill is called loudly that there will be judicial reform, there is no judicial reform, unfortunately, that is not. And I would like the vowel slogans that are being declared from all screens that we will be making order and making real reforms to be practical and supported by specific bills. Unfortunately, this bill is not a judicial reform. At least one amendment that could fix the situation a little bit has failed in this room. So, unfortunately, I have to say that one more time, we have a password and we don't have any real decisions that will really make the courts available to people and make the courts fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u144	Ivan Ivanovich, I can answer that. If you want to change the OASC approach, it's not about your 284 revision, it's really about changing approaches. It's been a while since we've heard that let's end the court in general, let's not go into cases. Or do we have a question, not to the courts, but to the judges who work there? And that's exactly what I'm talking about. And your 284 rights, colleagues, read carefully, not just about OASK. If we don't like OASK, let's just fill it with judges who will work in good conscience. That's it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u145	Ivan Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? Ivanovich! You insist. There is a vote of 287 national MP Krulk Ivan Ivanovich. The Board of Corrections rejected it. Please vote and determine. [[11:56:09]] Z-87 I'm sorry, 87. The decision is not taken. Next issue is 289 of the Bujansky People's Deputy. Are you insisting? I can't see. Don't insist. Next line is 290, Bujansky's national deputy. Don't insist. Next issue is 291, People's Deputy Soboljeva. Are you insisting? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, these are the key rights that we approach, which is why we call this law a "court reform": to reduce the judges of the Supreme Court from 200 to 100, to push things out -- let's call it -- the CCW, to launch the Supreme Council of Justice. That's it? And is there a judicial reform? What, though, will result in a citizen turning to a judgment that awaits justice, a just decision? My job is to do the following. At least to clean up the ridiculous, idiotic norm on illustrating those who went out after the 14th year, all until the 19th year, it was at least cleaned up. My job is to leave those who have been assigned the last year with competitive commissions, the selection of foreign experts, expert committees, at least leave them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u147	Colleagues, in this case it's really about periods, the period when the reboot takes place. It's because it's urgent that the president has introduced this bill as an emergency, just so that we don't delay the deadline. You can see that many of the stretching lines have been rejected by the committee. And that's exactly what these motives were all about. The committee didn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u148	Thank you. Are you insisting on a vote on your right? Yeah? I'm betting on the vote of 291 National Deputy Soboljeva Sergia Vladislavovich. The amendment was not taken into account by the committee, and that is why I put it to the vote. Please identify and vote. [[11:58:53]] For-97 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, there's a break for half an hour until 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u149	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We're starting our work. Good afternoon, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! And in the hall is Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak? Is the railroad in the hall? And if you'll excuse me for a moment, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's get back to work. 192 revisions, Slavicka. 193, Spinov. 194th, Krulko. 195th, Germany. Please turn on the German microphone. Oh, 295, sorry, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I support the amendment and I believe that this issue must be resolved on the basis of termination of authority, not by law. That's the first one. And the second. Please take a look at the proposal to have the secretariat cleaned up and cleaned up. Why are there powers attached to the qualification? I'd like the amendment to be taken into account. And secondly, dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you once again, you know all this. Think before you vote that there's no more selling justice, the cheaper it is, first, and independent, and dependent justice. In Germany it's called Zimmer gerechtigkeit. I want to inform you that this is Peter Alexiyovich, his team led by Filatov of the President's Administration has been preparing a so-called reform that has led to the humiliation and destruction of the national justice system in Ukraine. And unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u151	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u152	Colleagues, Vasil Ivanovich is absolutely right about the state of the judicial system in our country, and the committee can't help but agree. But the committee rejected the amendment because it only applies to item 2, "Final positions." This paragraph 2, look closely, this is when we really have to stop the commission's authorization and when the secretariat's authorization, that is, it refers to a speedy reload. That's why the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 295 people's deputies in Germany. It's not considered by the committee. So I'm betting on the vote, so I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[12:47:40]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Edit 197, Krulko. Don't insist. 198, Bujansky. 199, Jurchishin. You don't insist, do you? You didn't insist. 299th, Jurchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u154	Colleagues, I'm just going to have a warning. I think that's what everyone's talking about, but it needs to be announced publicly. We had some misunderstanding about 195 amendments, and a very valuable mechanism, when our international partners did have a decisive impact on decision-making when we made an ethical commission, we actually completely destroyed it. Please return to this amendment. I don't insist on my papers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u155	Colleagues with respect to 195 revisions. You know, we had a committee meeting at the head office, which was about other issues, it was the appointment of a representative of the Supreme Council. But this committee came to us just as the author of the 195, Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk, he insisted on this direction. The committee came back to her. The committee was left at the corner of 195. So let's put the voting room again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u156	Do you insist on voting? Don't insist. Thank you. 301. Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u157	Thank you, Mr. Head. Today we were told a lot about the model of this bill. Very short on the model. It's a very simple model. Part one is to put the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the hook to decide who to release and who to abandon. Part two of this bill means to throw out "bad" (in paws), well, really bad, but not its own GDP and WCC and to assign its GWP and WCC to a simplified procedure. And the third part of this bill is to create easier procedures for all judges to fear. No, they were not afraid to make dishonest decisions, but they were afraid of how those who would control the CFP and the CCW would view it. Here are actually three parts of this bill. And mine is about technical issues. Please support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u158	Colleagues, the law of Sergey Volodymyrovich does not refer to technical issues, it contains the words "to delete section III, paragraph 4," and that is not a technical question. And this is what we're talking about, in principle, I think it's just the emotional state of an MP who, in principle, has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u160	The committee has this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u161	Are you insisting on your right? 301 Vlasenka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[12:51:09]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Edit 303, Krulko. 306, Jurchisin. 307, Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Head! Of course, the situation is emotional. Because unlike the reporter, I tried on my own skin what is an addictive, corrupt, controlled judicial system. Do you understand? So, of course, it's an emotional state. When I see the absolute dance of the Gopaks on the Grabs, just like Janukovic did in 2010 and did the previous rule in 2014-2016. This bill, based on its ideology, is no different from the previous so - called judicial reforms. So, of course, emotional, of course. I can't stand to see all the mistakes that have been repeated. You know, first of all, I'm talking about the fact that history only teaches us because history teaches no one anything. Once again, I wanted to take advantage of the fruits of his judicial reform. He used it. I don't think he was happy with the rights lawyers have in the process. I advised the previous authorities to take advantage of the consequences of their judicial reform. They're using it now. I don't think they're happy with the status of a lawyer in the process. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u163	I'm sorry, Dmitri Alexanderovich, we have a 307. We're definitely looking at the bill or we're looking at it. I don't even know how to answer the 307 after that. I don't think we're looking at a bill right now. Edit 307 Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenka, which referred to section III, paragraph 5, delete. This section is specifically prescribed as "The Supreme Court of Justice of Ukraine shall, within two months of the formation of its new composition, select judges from the courts of the Supreme Court from among the judges of the relevant courts of the Supreme Court on the criteria of professional competence, ethics and integrity." Sergey Volodymyrovich suggested that this be excluded. The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u164	Thank you. You don't insist, do you? Are you insisting? I'm betting on the vote of 307 Vlasta, the committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[12:53:50]] For-67 The decision is not taken. Edit 312, Vlasenko. 317, Sobolev. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u165	Sobolje, Fatherland. Because this emotional condition is already going on for at least 12 years, and those who have led to this emotional state are now hiding in the Russian Federation, including I would like them to listen carefully to my correction. My job is to do the following. If you're already prosecuting the judges of the Supreme Court, at least give them the right to work not only in an appeal facility, but to work where they can show themselves anywhere, including in other institutions. Why are you limiting this to an exclusive appeal? But if the judge of the Supreme Court who's had this selection procedure that you've expelled from your job by disqualifying you from your profession, you'll get your answer in the Constitutional Court, in the European Court of Human Rights, at least give him the right to work in any court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u166	Colleagues, the law of Sergei Vladislavovich really applied to local courts and remained the previous edition of the competitive selection. You'll see that, in the end, Sergio Vladislavovich's law about local judges is really not supported. We also have enough vacancies in appeals courts. And it was decided that the qualifications of the Supreme Court judges were high enough to enable them to work at the highest level. And with regard to competitive selection, he disappeared from the last edition because it is inappropriate for the judges of the Supreme Court to run the competition again. So the word "competition selection," so you'll see what's behind selection. Edit rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on a vote of 317, National MP Soboljev, and the committee didn't support it. Please identify and vote. [[12:56:24]] For-74. 74. The decision is not taken. 321st, Vlasenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, this is my last amendment, I ask her not to put it to the vote, but I would like to point out once again that this bill has nothing to do with reforming the judiciary system. This bill will certainly not give citizens of Ukraine honest, just, legitimate decisions. He's not going to create an independent judge's institute, he's going to create an entirely dependent judge's institute. A judge who won't make a decision with the name of the law, the name of Ukraine, will be all the time, looking at a telephone device, that if he calls, what will be told, what will be his decision, and so on. The bill clearly contradicts the Council of Europe’s recommendations and, in particular, the conclusions of the Venice Commission. And then again, I ask you not to put my voting rights on the table, but I urge everyone not to support this bill in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u169	Because as a reporter, I have to comment on Sergey Volodymyrovich Vlasenka's revision, this is number 321, which applies only to section 2, paragraph 2. Section III, paragraph 7. What paragraph 7 tells us: “The Supreme Court judges who have not passed the selection procedure provided for in paragraph 5 of this section may be transferred to the relevant Courts of Appeal, taking into account the ratings formed by the results of the selection.” In order not to hang 100 judges of the Supreme Court, but to allow them to exercise justice, and there is paragraph 7, it cannot be excluded. That's why the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u170	Thank you. You don't insist on voting, do you? 323rd Jurchisin. Don't insist. 328, Sobolev. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u171	Yes, I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u172	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, for two years there has been a selection of new judges to the Supreme Court of Ukraine with all international procedures, with the participation of international experts, through the relevant bodies that have been created. Now you're throwing these people out on the street. What's more, you don't just throw them out on the street, you do everything you can to make sure that these people don't even have the right to continue doing what they were doing, and the citizens trusted them in this, the return to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, because, you see, you're limiting 100 posts. What Can Citizens Do? What can physical persons who have been waiting for their turn for years and decades to come? Because those tens of thousands of cases that are now in the Supreme Court will clearly not be considered. My suggestion is to re-read the second reading and wait for the conclusions of Venice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u174	Irina Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u175	Dear Sergey Vladislavovich, as you said, as far as "tossing out" was concerned with the local and appeal courts. You can't contradict yourself like that for literally three minutes. Right before the execution of justice. If we're talking about the 77,000 cases that are now at the Supreme Court, why didn't any of you take a right? There are 12 licenses for the number of judges. Why didn't anyone get 300 judges, 400 judges, 500 judges? And this bill says that decentralization approaches are changing, the role of appeals courts is increasing, procedural filters are being put in place, and Supreme Court judges will deal directly with the unification and continuity of practices. So if you want to be able to handle all 77,000 cases, please apply for 500 Supreme Court judges. Edit rejected. The amendment was totally different, and the committee didn't count.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u176	Thank you. Give the word to Venislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, just at 12 o'clock there was a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy that discussed the issue that we were talking about today. During the committee’s meeting, the question was that we should go back to the appeal number 195 recommended by the master. People's Deputy Stefanchuk. The committee decided to return to the trial in the 195th Hall and to support the approval of the national deputy Stefanchuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, yes, I'm sorry, I was at the meeting of the committee that met at the head's disposal, and this question was raised. I also ask and support to go back to 195 revisions and support them, because I did not understand what was going on. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u179	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev with motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've actually started this bill so beautifully. Absolutely everything with respect to the Rules has been promised that no matter how long or how long the turbulence ends, we are in the normal course of compliance with the Rules. And now you're one of them. One such action is to corrupt the entire impression of this law. Well, there are 122 articles of the Rules, which foresees how to do and act in this case. In this case, the Supreme Council is to entrust the committee with bringing the bill itself into line with the bill voted and putting it to the vote at the next plenary session. Then everything will be fine, clearly, and we will applaud how you work, how you do with this law. If you're going to go back to the already voted amendment, it's in the worst traditions of Paris that you're going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u181	I apologize, but this decision was not made in the hall, nowhere, and this decision was made by a committee that, according to the 122 articles you discussed, is entitled to do so. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Now we have two questions: this is going back to 195 revisions and the second is to maintain 195 revisions. Are you ready, colleagues, to vote? Please take your seats. The question of the return to 195 amendments to this bill is put to the vote. Ready to vote? Please. Excuse me, are you ready to vote? Please vote and vote. Please turn on the system. Please vote and vote. [[13:04:58]] For 281 For 281, for the return. Dear colleagues! Show the factions, please. People's Servant - 224, Opposition Platform - 0, European Solidarity - 23, Fatherland - 1, Future - 3, Voice - 16, Non-faction - 14. Dear colleagues, I now consider as the author of the appeal for confirmation of the 195. Please vote. Please vote and vote. [[13:05:47]] For 303 Thank you. If there was a change of opinion, there was a committee, it could have been picked up. Thank you. I'm handing over Dmitri Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u182	Thank you, Your Honor. We went through all the regulations that were taken into account or disregarded during the consideration of the bill and the preparation for the second reading. That's why I'm voting for a second reading. Yeah, with motive. Klimpush-Cincadze is a motive. Wait a minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, today the political leadership of the country declares European integration as a priority. European integration is about action. Unfortunately, this bill violates European Union law, the principles of the Council of Europe, and violates the independence of the judiciary. And today we have received a letter, more faithfully, from the Speaker of Parliament received a letter from representatives of the European Union, representatives of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Britain, Canada, Germany, saying that this bill unfortunately violates the independence of the judicial branch of power today. By voting for this bill, you take a real European perspective from Ukraine. You're going to a confrontation with the Council of Europe. This is the Secretary-General who has already sent this bill to the conclusion of the Venice Commission. At the nearest meeting, the Venice Commission will determine. Then we could take their comments into account and actually vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u184	A parishioner, a minute, a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support the bill. This is the historic moment where we actually have the ability to really reform our judicial system. With regard to the calls of our colleagues, I'll say that yesterday there was a decision by the Venice Commission on Moldova, where the number of judges of the Supreme Court was just accused, and the Venice Commission said they were okay with this, with a reduced number. Accordingly, this argument of our colleagues does not withstand criticism. And in fact, the system is now very opposed, there's the WCC's desire to hold a meeting on the next few days to appoint the most of those judges with the highest number of questions, and they just pray and hope that we will fail this bill and not vote. So, big requests, colleagues, gather and vote, press the "yes" button. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u186	Thank you. Danesev's Valentina Ivanovna. If you don't mind, I think we'd better turn on the microphone from here, because in a minute, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u187	I don't need a rostrum. And thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the honourable Mrs. Klimpush-Cincadze about the fact that we cannot ignore the international community, we cannot ignore our partners. It's very dangerous. And I would also like to say that the people of Ukraine are waiting for the branches of power to work together and give people what they've been waiting for for for years, in our case, these are timely court decisions. So I'd like to show the people now our solidarity that we're going to be working on this bill, and on others, and we're going to be reaching out to either one of them. work on the positions that will allow for an independent court in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u188	Thank you. Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich. After that, Irina Valentinovna, head of the committee. Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u189	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. You know, the historical achievements of the judicial reform I heard in this session hall in 2010, it was under these slogans that Janukovic's reform took place at that time. I heard that in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017 when the bill was voted on. It's also said to be a historic moment, judicial reform and so on. Sadly, nothing changes. Unfortunately, the slogans remain the same and unfortunately the content of the bills remains the same. No one seeks to create fair, independent, impartial justice that will make honest, just, and legal decisions. Rather, everyone aims to gain control of the judicial branch of authority. All the same bills are repeated, slightly altered, but their content and content are exactly the same. The Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has already made a statement on this bill, and she has sent the bill to the Venice Commission. The comparison with Moldova is totally inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u190	Sergey Rahmanin. Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do you know why there is no reform in Ukraine? Because we have never reformed systematically. You can't call a reformer's bill, where one reformer's point, another retrograde, and a third repressive, depending on who's going to use it. This is not a reform and it's no matter whether it's a judicial reform or anything else. That's the first one. The other one. Colleagues, sometimes we do very well when we try to work together, not through our knees, breaking or stretching a story that is convenient to someone in particular. There was a chance and this opportunity was, there was an opportunity to send on the second rereading, work and agree. Unfortunately, this opportunity was not realized. So in principle, to call this bill a breakthrough or more reformative, I wouldn't risk it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u192	Thank you. Irina Valentinovna Venedictova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, when it was possible to submit alternative bills, we did not see them. So really, when we say that we want to work in a balanced way, let's actually do it, not just talk about it. On October 2, there was a meeting of the Legal Reform Commission with the President. Representatives of the Council of Europe, the EU Representation, USAID and other donor organisations took part in this commission. They supported the reforms of Vladimir Zelensky. Onichtuk, head of the National School of Judges, also spoke on behalf of the judges, who supported Bill 1008. So let's work, of course. That doesn't mean anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm just giving you another picture. Sergey Volodymyrovich, you're not always talking to a microphone. So if you want to say something, say it under the record and you're heard. I'm just giving you another fidbeck what's going on. This does not mean that we can stop working on improving the judicial system. Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u194	No, colleagues. Colleagues, no. A replica of what? There's nothing to say. Dear colleagues, me. No, not from the faction. We had motive. Nestor Ivanovich, I'm sorry, there's no such procedure, from the faction. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'll put it to a vote. From factions. We've got all of them now. It was from the committee. It was from the committee, not the faction. She is the head of the committee, Nestor Ivanovich. Dear Nestor Ivanovich, I say again. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a bill to the vote. for adoption in second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the activities of judicial authorities (registration No. 1008). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:14:40]] For 236 The law was passed in general. Thank you. Show the factions, please. 219 is the "Serve of the People" Party, "The Opposition Platform - For Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 0, "non-fractional" - 17. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Decree regarding the participation of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in constitutional conduct. — Registration No. 2265. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please be quiet in the hall! Sergei Vladislavovich, I'm sorry! Dear colleagues, we must vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the above-mentioned Supreme Council ruling. draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To do that, we need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:15:59]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is proposed to vote on the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. We need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[13:16:28]] For 237 Decision taken. Colleagues, it is proposed to consider the above-mentioned draft decree in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:16:52]] For 244 244-yes. Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u195	Honorable Predestination! Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by a draft decree approving the position of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council in constitutional conduct. In accordance with the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes part in meetings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine during proceedings for constitutional submissions, constitutional appeals, constitutional complaints, in a subject whose act is challenged on the subject of constitutionality, or the subject matter which is the representative of the subject, who is the subject of the right of appeal to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In 1999, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the Regulations concerning the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. Since 1999, however, a number of changes have been made to both the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. The Constitutional Court has been given new powers, new charges have emerged before the Constitutional Court, including the laws of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and other acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to bring the position of Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court in accordance with the requirements of the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine, a new draft of the Status of Permanent Representative has been developed. This position, as I have already said, has brought the work of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court into line with the applicable legislative requirements. In addition, it is suggested that the order of appointment be changed as a permanent representative. A valid decision that we propose to repeal and approve is that the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council will be. We propose that the representation before the Constitutional Court of the interests of the Supreme Council be carried out by a person who may be Ukraine’s national deputy. It's a short change. Therefore, please support and vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u196	Thank you, Feder Volodymyrovich. The word for the co-report is given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Venedict Irina Valentinovni, you can leave.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, a committee meeting took place at 12 o’clock, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council. The committee supported two draft conclusions. One of them was to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Decision on the participation of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council in the constitutional conduct of the Supreme Council in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the ninth call and on the basis and overall. And secondly, to support, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the draft Decision on the appointment of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovina as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Constitutional Court to include in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council, on the basis and in general. It seems to me that the candidature of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna has already been proved to everyone that it is a worthy, worthy and professional candidate who can represent the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues, would you please tell me whether this is a matter for discussion? Yeah. Then I'd like you to sign up: two for, two for factions. Laba Mikhailo Mikhailovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u199	Please pass the word to Venislavski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u200	Turn on the microphone of Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u201	Dear colleagues! As I said before, this ruling, which is proposed for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, aims to bring exactly the constitutionalization of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court Act of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. Some comments on the content of this decree. there is no possibility of participating in the meeting of the Constitutional Court of the Ukrainian People's Deputies on the basis of the requirements of current legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as I said before, the regulation on permanent representation was edited by a member of the Supreme Council's Apparatus. We propose that this function be performed by the Ukrainian National MP, and the Ukrainian National MP will carry out these duties free of charge, i.e. on public grounds. This fully meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the incompatibility of the status of a national MP with other types of activity and allows a person to take part in constitutional conduct who understands the essence of those bills that are brought before the Constitutional Court or those proposed before the Constitutional Court by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by subjects of the right to constitutional submission, no less than 45 national deputies. Therefore, I would like to support this ruling, to vote in favour of a standing representative position, of a permanent representative's participation in the examination of submissions, of appeals at a meeting of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u202	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Sergey was sore. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to begin by saying that I would like to thank those 35 national deputies of the "Serve of the People" faction who have found courage in themselves and in which professionalism has triumphed over political worthiness. I sincerely thank you colleagues for this courageous step, he's really brave. Now, regarding the representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court. You know, I'm not the first cadence in the Supreme Council, and all this time the Supreme Council was represented not by a political commissioner who expressed his political position, but by the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court, in the highest body of constitutional jurisdiction, represented a professional who was involved in the Supreme Council of Labour relations, but what an uninvolved political position, and in this was the enormous value of this person. I don't have any warnings against the candidate you recommend, but I'm against the principle. I am for the Supreme Council to represent an equalist from all political actors a professional who would be able to defend the legitimacy of actions, decisions of the Supreme Council that could be far from political preferences, away from political influences, to formulate his position and not be hostage and hostage to political positions, as was most of the "Serial of the People" factions in the previous vote. And you know, it seems very strange that the representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court recommends a representative of the President in the Constitutional Court. We don't have a cute couple, we all have to be a separate professional, politically unattractive. So I'm against this proposal and I urge you not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u204	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Everyone wanted to speak. If so, I suggest we prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote? I am voting on the basis and the whole draft Decree on the participation of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in constitutional conduct (registration No. 2265). Please support and vote. [[13:26:28]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a statement has come from. Show the factions, please. A statement came from two factions to replace the break for the performance. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language, which we adopted in the last summons, today is the last day that the Cabinet of Ministers was to form a composition of the National Commission of Public Language Standards. And this composition was formed by the previous government on August 21st, to appoint the State Language Commissioner, and it was not done, to ensure that within the competence of creating the right conditions for the functioning of the National Commission of State Language Standards and Authorized for the Protection of State Language, in fact either to propose amendments to the Budget Act for this year, or to redistribute funds within the current budget. Unfortunately, the Cabinet of Ministers is actually sabotaging the implementation of the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. We appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to comply with the law. The Budget Committee will meet today at 3 p.m. The draft budget, which was submitted, did not contain any line on ensuring the functioning of this law, not only on the purpose of providing it for the work of an authorized, appropriate commission, relevant centres for the study of Ukrainian in all regions of Ukraine, and on the implementation of a programme for the protection of Ukrainian language, as provided for in the law. These are the spices that President Zelensky promised so much when he spoke of the need for the introduction of the Ukrainian language. But there's no spices or anything else in the next year's budget. I appeal to the government with a strong request from our "European Solidarity" faction, from all other factions of Parliament, from the Voice faction, from other factions asking that everything be done to ensure that the Ukrainian Language Act is implemented. I also ask the members of the Committee on Budgets to do their utmost to ensure that the rights of the people's deputies that ensure the implementation of the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language are included in the budget for the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the appointment of Sougiri as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine (Registration No. 2260). To be included in the agenda of the plenary session, we need to vote and get 226 votes. I therefore put to the vote the motion for inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary session of the above-mentioned draft regulation. Please take your seats, please prepare for the vote. Project Rule 2266 please support and vote. [[13:30:09]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to vote and apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. Please support and vote. [[13:30:37]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that the above - mentioned decision be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:31:00]] For 234 Decision taken. The report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Venislav Fedor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, taking this opportunity to present the next decision, I would like to respond to the comments that have been made from this rostrum by other speakers. The fact is that I, as President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, have the right to control and see what matters are being dealt with in the Constitutional Court, to control from the point of view of participating in the meetings of the Constitutional Court. Just considering that I understand that from the next day following this meeting, the question of compliance with the articles, the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the bills that have been put into the order of the day session, and the representative of the Supreme Council, I have just proposed in the order of the legislative initiative that the decision is being made. With regard to the appointment of the Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ordinance on the appointment of the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Doctor of Legal Sciences, a professor, a well-known expert in constitutional law of Ukraine in the Ukraine of Sougir Olga Volodymyrovna. I point out that among our colleagues, there is only one doctor of science from the constitutional law of Ukraine who can effectively, competently assess those issues that are being considered in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I would like to support this candidacy, to vote in favour of the appointment of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u208	Thank you, Fedor Volodymyrovich. The words for the report are given to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy of Vendíkté Irina Valentinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, I repeat that a committee meeting took place at 12 p.m. today. There were no other candidates than the Sougiri candidate. It seems to me that Olga Volodymyrna has proven enough to be a committee within a month and a half, when the Supreme Council is working, and the Supreme Council has already proven its expertise and professionalism. The committee supported this nomination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u210	Thank you, Irina Valentine's Day. Dear colleagues, do you need to discuss this? Please sign up for factions: two for, two against. Kornienko Alexander Sergiyovich, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u211	Venislavski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u212	Venislavski Fedir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, as I have said before, the Sougir Olga Volodymyrna is one of the most well-known professionals in the field of constitutional law, constitutional justice, doctor of legal sciences, professor, and, as has already been pointed out, her actions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the ninth vocation, her legislative initiatives, she has demonstrated by her interventions a level of expertise that allows her to be represented by the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court and to represent the interests of the Supreme Council, regardless of political preferences. So I propose to support this decision and to appoint Sougir Olga Volodymyr to be the permanent representative of the Supreme Council in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u214	Thank you. Hončarenko Alexyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u215	Thank you. Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Dear friends, you know, we have some phenomenal personnel policy. The President's representative from the "Serve of the People" clearly suggests that he be also a representative of Parliament from the "Serve of the People". Do we have anything besides "Serves of the People" in this state, please tell me? I don't have anything against Mrs. Sougiri, maybe she's a great expert, but why don't you hand over a man who's not directly connected to the "Slut of the Nation"? That's not even a dream, is it? The Supreme Council is one majority? And so does your Cabinet of Ministers. I just came from the Cabinet meeting. The President’s office applied to Kabmin for the candidacy of Montenegrin Governor Andrew Prokopenko. A man worked at the TMK-WR in Moscow, developed a network, wrote, held elections in Voroña, somewhere else in Talia, a technologist who worked in Russia. Where do you want him? Governor of the Chernig region, which is bordering the Russian Federation. We've already appointed you Bakanov, your business partner Zelensky. And we now have Korchevnikov, a TV channel called Spas, a Russian propagandist who received a Crimea Liberation Order from Putin, goes to Kiev and posts pictures. And it's okay, and no B.S.I. is doing it. It's some kind of blood spasm. If we had a real TV station, he'd have his basket at the Lukyanowski SEZO right now. Instead, he fasts in Instagram as he walks on Kiev. And that's the kind of personnel policy you're going to continue, and you're going to bring the state right to the pen with this kind of policy. That's terrible!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u216	Black Victor Ivanovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u217	Please give the floor to the German deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u218	Germano Vasil Ivanovich. From where, yes, I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u219	Dear colleagues, for information, I must inform you that the Ukrainian Constitutional Court is the 33rd in Europe, so it came out -- the age of Jesus Christ. He's been working since he was 16. And for today, I'll tell you, during all this time that he's been working, there have been all kinds of coalitions of legal character, there have been different procedures, there have been cataclysms in the implementation of constitutional justice. I don't question the candidate's expertise in any way. Not to any extent. I support that this is, in fact, a high-class constitutional law specialist. I only have one question to consider. The ruling in question is referred to as a permanent representative in the Constitutional Court. So I say, can't it be on a permanent basis on social grounds? That's the logic of law. That's the logic of application that we're talking about. History knows experts who represented both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council and other institutions. And there's a question, the very word "on a permanent basis" requires that a person is there. Here's a representative from the President at the Constitutional Court, who said he knew and controlled there. What does he control? What are we talking about? This should be routine work for the Constitutional Court to work, sit, sit, and work on a permanent basis. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u220	Petty Officer Valentin Aleksandrovich. Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I will touch the candidate in just one aspect at the end of my speech. But in fact our position, the position of the Fatherland faction, has not changed. In principle, we deny that an MP who is politically involved, who is in the ranks of a political power, should represent or may represent the entire Supreme Council in such an important body as the Constitutional Court, when considering such or other constitutional arrangements. This is not only during constitutional guidelines related to changes to the Constitution regarding the conformity of such changes with articles 156, 157 of the Constitution. By the way, I'm surprised by the presentation by the distinguished representative of the President at the Constitutional Court that he seems to be controlling what conduct is being considered in the Constitutional Court, an interesting thing. If you're willing to testify to this in a criminal case, I'll be grateful for that, because it's called the legal language -- one of the possibilities of interfering with justice. But you know how to act. I would very much hate for a person to act like this who will be appointed as a representative of the Supreme Council. As for the candidate himself, or the candidate, how fashionable it is to speak in a new spelling, I can only say one thing. I understand you have 226 votes for her appointment. So I would like to wish her in her day-to-day activities to do and apply what she teaches her students, and because she defended herself in her own dissertation, particularly the candidate, which is called "The Right of Opposition in Ukraine." Do not forget the opposition in Ukraine. Not just your point of view, the point of view of the only dominant political power. And I'll let myself quote you sometimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u222	Thank you for your support, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? If so, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a vote to be voted on as a basis and as a whole the draft Order on the appointment of Sougiri Olga Volodymyrovna as Permanent Representative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please support and vote. [[13:42:05]] For 244 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Hello, Olga Volodymyrna. By factions, please show me. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on the Cessation of Compensation to the People's Deputies of Ukraine for Expenses associated with the Implementation of Deputies in the event of a Pass without valid reasons for plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1035-2). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Dear colleagues, please don't disperse. Now there's going to be a couple of bills that have one or two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u223	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! The committee is working on a project (registration number 1035-2) until the second reading. First of all, we took into account the positions of the Constitutional Court, namely, the Constitutional Court’s decision of July 7, 1998 that the power of a national deputy delegated to it by the people as the sovereign authority obliges them to take part in Parliament’s decisions by voting. We have also taken into account the position of the Constitutional Court in its decision of October 17, 2002 that the Constitution in fact stems from the presumption of responsibility in the work of all MPs in plenary meetings and other forms of parliamentary activity. When this bill was discussed in the first reading, there were some criticisms about electronic registration. And in that project that you're offered for second reading, there's actually this problem that a deputy can't register for 10 minutes, voting -- it's already a sign-up. We're proposing to give up this rudimentary as a written registration, which is actually a indulgence. The MP checked in before the morning or evening meetings, and then he could be considered working in the south. We would also like to remind you that the vast majority of the proposals that came into this bill were taken into account. These are the proposals of the deputies of Frololov, Yvchenka, Synythetics, Knazevitch, Vlasenka. Thus, we propose, the committee has invited Parliament to adopt this bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u224	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Let's move on to the amendments. Second line, Yvchenko. No, the first line is Froll, the first line is Froll. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. What's wrong with you in the first place? Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u225	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, I'm not comfortable with what the title of the bill you just mentioned is saying about a pass without valid reasons for plenary meetings. The first reading was about a pass without valid reasons for plenary meetings, but the second reading was a change of heart: instead of 30 percent of the missed plenary sessions, such as this, by the way, the concept of changes to the Constitution, somehow there's the notion of "30 percent pass." I'll tell you, my dear colleagues, there's a big difference in this, I'd very much like the national MPs to consciously make this decision. The point is that we have a right not to vote as one of the forms of a demonstration of political position. This right is derived from the right of our voters not to vote. And in that way, both the national MP and the political faction won't legitimize any vote by their participation, that's her right. What's more, I've just been doing a special follow-up on the previous bill, and I'll tell you, there wasn't a vote where less than 100 of our colleagues didn't take part in that vote. And that's why it's very right for everyone right now to decide not to then say that he didn't know, didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u226	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u227	You know, Mr. Head, it wasn't a question of a specific amendment, I just sounded the Constitutional Court's legal position on the responsible attitude of deputies, on the duty to take part in the work, including decisions. I followed the same pattern of voting, and when the motions were voted on, they were traditionally not voted on by 140 to 180 deputies. As of yesterday, the economy of the state budget funds would have been good today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u228	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Look, look. Dear colleagues, you may not be correct in saying why? Because I think it's important for the electorate to understand the position of the national MP. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, it's not a position, it's a position when you support, a position. I'm sorry I didn't interrupt you. When you support, support, or abstain. When you don't vote, you don't understand why you don't vote: you don't split this bill, you don't support this bill, you choose a trip to warm countries, you choose a new car or an apartment, or you do other things, sometimes very interesting things. So I think it's better for the voters to understand what we're all voting for. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] To confirm, I understand for confirmation. No, it's not your job. It's Frolo's first. To confirm, the argument, what? Turn on Ivchenka Vadim Evgenovich's microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u229	Thank you, Mr. Head. Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I still want to pay attention to this same amendment, but to another problem. Our work begins with working in plenary sessions. Next week, it's committee work, and another week, it's electoral work. And it's the money to carry out the parliamentary powers that makes it possible for us to keep the receptions, work with the voters, travels, and so on and so forth. You are now proposing to withdraw the right of a national MP to give appropriate funds for the exercise of parliamentary powers. I mean, you're against election work. And here's what we're talking about: if the MP didn't vote, that's what they're talking about, which is that the MP won't get the opportunity to go to the county and work with the electorate, and spend money on the election. Colleagues, these are changes to the People's Deputy Status Act. We're for the deputies to work, and for the Fatherland to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u230	Thank you for your support. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u231	We're paying for the deputy's job. But the status of the people's MP and the MP's money to carry out the MP's mandate to work with the electorate is that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u232	I'm just looking at the hall, with all due respect, your esteemed colleagues, the cameras, let them show you who's in the hall and how we're going to vote now. And then we don't have to ask why someone voted for this proposal and who didn't vote. I think it's going to be honest with our voters. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to vote on the order of the People's Deputies of Frolová. I'm gonna put her on the stand right now. I beg you to support her. She was, I take it, supported by a committee, wasn't she? Please support and vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[13:51:14]] For 243 Decision taken. Please show by factions: "Serve of the People" - 223, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fathership" - 0, "For the Future" - 0, "Voice" - 0, "non-factional" - 16. Thank you. Correction confirmed. Dear colleagues, number two of the national MP Yvchenka. Are you insisting? Thank you. Dear colleagues, don't break up, because we have another amendment, and we're done. Amendment number 5. [[B in m in s a l in]] What's "four"? Huh? [[B in m in s a l in]] Partially included in proposal number one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay! Who will act? Knazevitch? Okay, please turn on the Knyazevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u233	Thank you, Mr. Head! Well, I'm just surprised that the committee says it's accounted for, even though it clearly denies what's been counted. My amendment on the other, my amendment to bind this logic to the constitutional changes that are already proposed, that during the session if 30 percent of the plenary meetings are missed for no valid reason, then it can be said that some payments or wages, or perhaps even parliamentary compensation, can be tried in this context to deprive the MP. But now it's absolutely allogeneic for every month. Imagine, for example, 50 percent of the committee’s work. What if one committee meeting takes place in a month? What if it's two? And if it happens, for example. Or none. So anyway, my dear colleagues, I don't think the authors have thought about how it's really practical to apply this norm. So I'm asking you to vote for our proposal, because to call it counted, well, it's very cynical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u234	That's the 3rd line, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u235	Yes. The committee thinks so. The committee believes that this proposal was partially taken into account in proposal number one, in that edition that it was supported at one, we think it's a partial consideration of this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u236	Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 3 of the People's Deputy Knazević, which was partly counted. He insists that it be taken fully into account. The committee does not support it. Please identify and vote. [[13:53:58]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Edit No. 4 of the National MP Vlasenka was partially counted. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u237	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, this is the same situation: my readjustment is clearly out of the question. What are we offered in the law? I quote, "the national deputy is not being compensated for the expenses associated with the exercise of parliamentary powers for the corresponding calendar month." What do I suggest in my right hand? The MP's salary is not paid in proportion to the number of working days -- that's what colleague Yvchenko was talking about. What are the costs of carrying out the parliamentary powers that the MP spends on communicating with his district, the area where he is established, and so forth? So he actually spends this money on people. And we're not robbed of our salaries, we're deprived of our MPs, which is complete absurdity, it doesn't make any sense, it doesn't make any sense. We're here to punish the walkers. There's no problem. Let us take a salary to the deputies in proportion to those cases where he did not show up, not taking part without good reason in the plenary.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u238	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u239	The committee believes that this proposal, Deputy Vlasenko, was taken into account in part, so it is an alternative to the proposal that was actually taken into account in full.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u240	Dear colleagues. Are you insisting, Sergey Volodymyrovich? I'm betting on vote number four, it's been partially counted. The owner insists that it be taken fully into account. The committee does not support this. Please identify and vote. [[13:56:10]] For-96 The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next one. Amendment number five, national deputy of Sinyutka. Knazevitch. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u241	Thank you, Mr. Head. However, we propose not to remove the possibility of a written registration of Ukrainian national deputies from the law. This is a parliamentary tradition that exists in the vast majority of the world. I think that our colleagues who have not yet been able to do so will be able, by visiting other parliaments, to see if this kind of procedure is available. And more than that, I don't understand why we're so afraid to leave our signatures. Why should we be ashamed? What should we be afraid of? We need to be honest, publicly, there are a lot of cameras there and we have nothing to be ashamed of. These include their signatures, which are then the basis for accounting as a written document. It's always been like this. Moreover, it is then passed on to the committee, and when the committee’s chairman signs up the committee members, it takes into account or takes into account, including, in writing, the registration as a document, for she or he also needs to take on some responsibility in this regard. In view of these circumstances, let us avoid setting up our colleagues, and let us not break the tradition that is established in Ukrainian realities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u242	Thank you. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u243	Well, the position of the committee is that we've decided to reject this proposal, because we don't think it's the parliamentary tradition that needs to be supported and followed, because I repeat that once or twice a written registration per day is indulgence for some deputies, unfortunately, to sign up, or even sometimes there is an assistant signing up, and then people go ahead and deal with their questions. The committee therefore decided to reject the offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u244	Thank you. Do you insist, yes, on the vote, Ruslan Petrovich? I'm betting on the vote number 5 of the People's Deputy Knazević. Please identify and vote. She's not supported by the committee. Partially counted, more loyal. [[13:58:31]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, is there anyone else who insists on law enforcement? 7th Amendment, Yvchenko. Partially included in the edition of proposal number 6. Please turn on Ichchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u245	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Here I have to thank the committee that they have taken care of the essence of the rights that give to the MPs. I mean, if even today, after the adoption of this law, the MP couldn't register by pressing the "yes" button, but he worked in the Supreme Council Hall and more than 30 percent of the votes he actually pressed the button and voted, that would mean that he was present at the Supreme Council Hall and he was working on a working day. But, at the same time, colleagues, I have to tell you, these were novices with parliamentary powers and electoral work. Well, imagine the major's gone, something happened in the county. Well, how do you prove it was a valid reason? There's a garden burning, there's something else going on, there's something else going on -- it's got to be right in the district. And the funds that are being allocated, they don't go to the MPs, they go to support the MPs. Colleagues, we're against these novels. Therefore, this bill will not be voted on by the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u246	Thank you. I continue my morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u247	Thank you to a respected colleague for his appreciation for the work of the committee that supported the proposal. But what was said is a little bit more precise. In fact, he is thought to have registered if he did not take a 30 - percent vote, even once per cent. This salary will be paid if he participates at least 70 percent of the vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, number seven was part of the committee. The committee doesn't insist. No. 8, Vlasenko. Don't insist. It's okay. It's What's for confirmation? 9th for confirmation. Dear colleagues, committee position, 9 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u248	This proposal was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u249	Dear colleagues, the number nine amendment committee's proposal is to count. [[B in m in s a l in]] I realize I'm betting on confirmation now. I heard. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u250	Dear Ukrainians, because to the hall, I see, there is no point in addressing, you know, Parliament is always politics. With this bill, parliament is also being drafted into mathematics. I mean, it's not about how you worked on the bill, how you worked in the district, how you worked with the electorate, whether you made an effort to influence foreign and domestic politics, how you worked on it, how you worked in the district, how you worked with the electorate, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked on it, how you worked with the electorate, whether you worked on it, whether you worked on it, whether you worked on external and internal politics, and it went into math, and the MPs turned it into a button. You just have to sit there and press the button. And then math appreciates whether you're good or bad. You know, I think our voters did choose, really, the servants of the people, not the buttons. Guys, don't turn into buttons, stop, don't ruin Parliamentarianism! This is a disgraceful law that destroys not just the Rules, but the very essence of Parliamentarianism. And you know, I don't think any parliament in the world would demean itself like that, its function, and that means the people of Ukraine. You were chosen as their representatives, not "buttons." Don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, the committee. I give the floor to the committee. And please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u252	Since this was not a question, I would like to recall once again what is coming out of the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has stressed: "The approval of the People's Deputy, delegated by the people as sovereign of power, obliges them to participate in the decision-making process by voting." Not what you say, click on the button, but by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u253	Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There's a proposal to put the number 9 of the People's Deputy Frolová on the bill, and it was counted by the committee. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:03:49]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. We've basically gone through everything. 11 Vlasenka's revision was partially counted. Please turn on Sergei Volodymyrovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u254	Thank you, Your Honor. But the timer, if you please, is back. Thank you, Mr. Head. I must say to the honourable rapporteur that there is a vote in all the parliaments of the world called "the vote by the feet" when people come out of the hall in order not to take part. It's a world practice. That's the first one. There is nothing in any parliament of the world that you are now proposing. That's two. And the third. The Ukrainian Constitution prohibits the application of one and the other. Two punishments of the same kind, for the same violation. You're proposing and depriving people of their salaries and depriving them of their MPs for the same thing. This is a direct contradiction to the Constitution of Ukraine. We're in charge of taking away wages if the MP is not in the workplace, so he has no problems in proportion to the time he didn't take part for important reasons in the session. But once again, the MPs who associate people with the district with the electorate who spend their time talking to the electorate have nothing to do with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u255	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, you know, we used to watch the Supreme Council meeting earlier. It felt like they were not voting with their hands, but with their feet. And where they walked with these legs, it was not clear. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm voting number 11, National Deputy Vlasenka. It was partially accounted for. He insists that it be taken fully into account. Please identify and vote. And I would like to remind you that we are about to go to the vote for the law. Please identify and vote. [[14:05:57]] For-96 Decision taken. Let's move on to voting for the law as a whole. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the Cessation of Compensation to the People's Deputies of Ukraine or the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 1035-1). This is the bill that can finally stop the permanent absence of some of the national deputies in this room. Please support and vote. 1035-2. Registration number 1035-2. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[14:07:11]] For 265 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 229, Opposition Platform - Life - 6, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherland - 1, Future - 4, Voice - 15, Non-faction - 10. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-16-m0.u256	Dear colleagues, don't forget the card!
