ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please hold the registration. Please register. [[10:02:34]] 350 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vasil Ivanovich Brenzowicz (welcome) and Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk. Hello, colleagues. We were distributed in the Bible Hall today. And I want to say hello to everyone on Thursday. I'll remind you, in 2015, four years ago, colleagues, actually on the Clean Thursday, we passed laws on decommunization. Today, on the Net Thursday, we pass another law of accession to restore historical justice, to establish Ukrainian identity, is the Ukrainian Language Act as a national law. The Ukrainian State has a national language, which is the Ukrainian language. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, by adopting the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language, carry out our duty. Ukrainian language is our most powerful weapon. The Imperial Russia was doing its best to beat it out of our hands. It didn't work. And today we're on the finish line. Ukrainians from all parts of Ukraine, from Kharkiv and Lviv, from Odessa and Chernigov, came to the walls of Parliament to support and be with us on this holiday and great day. We mobilize, we work, we adopt the law. I want to tell you the structure of our work. So in 30 minutes, I think we're going to finish the law review. Then I invite all factions to speak in a minute, this is my right as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am convinced that every faction will have to express its position. After that, it is the final word of the head of the Committee of the Princes. And I predict that around 11:00, 10:50, we'll go to the vote. All of the Committee's proposals are on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to all of the National Deputies. By our first vote, we will return to those rights that the committee deems necessary for the voting of the law. In the second vote, we will confirm these amendments. And by the third vote, colleagues, we are voting in favour of the Ukrainian Language Act as a whole. I'm asking everyone to mobilize now, we're starting our work. The law of speech will be passed! I've had a statement from two factions of the Peter Dusty Block and the People's Front. And before I begin my examination of the rights, I invite you to speak from two factions to the rostrum of Irina Heratchenko. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u2	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! As you know, yesterday the President of the Russian Federation, Vladimir Putin, issued a decree against which the passports of the Russian Federation are illegally issued to Ukrainian citizens who live in temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. This was prepared a long time ago, but the timing of this decree was not accidental when a peaceful transfer of power took place in Ukraine during the transitional period. And it's obvious that Putin, as always, is using the weakening of Ukraine and the Ukrainian authorities, is using this to force another than to drive another one into the back of our country. A special meeting of the UN Security Council was already held yesterday at the request of the President-in-Office of Ukraine, where all our international partners condemned this decision as a decision which, first of all, breaks the Minsk Accords in a single order, violates in fact any international rules, and it does not correspond to the Minsk Agreements or to agreements in the 'normal format'. Why is this decision so dangerous? First of all, because Putin is thus betting on the Ossetian scenario of the frozen conflict, but at any time, he can launch a full-scale offensive under the auspices of the citizens of the Russian Federation. This is a gross violation of human rights. Because I'm going to remind you about our Santsova criminals, Kolchenka, who never allowed Ukrainian consuls because of their violent passporting with these passports of the Russian Federation. Dear colleagues, yesterday the same happened in the Minsk queue meeting of the Minsk group, and a notable fact: but that Putin issued this decree, the Russian delegation learned from the Ukrainian delegation, which made a decision published on the Internet. In fact, the Minsk Ukrainian delegation failed to agree for the first time in all these years to establish a Passover truce. The Russian side firmly refused to take any responsibility for keeping quiet in Donbas during the Passover holidays and tossed, in fact, these Passover truce arrangements. We see how dangerous the situation is and how hostile it is to use the transition period and the weakness that exists in the state today. So I, my dear colleagues, would like to propose the following. Parliament cannot be apart from this. And I think that in the afternoon we have to take a call from Parliament to our partners, to the countries of the world, to parliaments, to the inter-parliamentary assemblies. Because yesterday, when our colleague Ambassador Kuleba, a representative of Ukraine at the Council of Europe, declared violations of both Ukrainian legislation and international law by this decision of Putin, President Parje of the Council of Ministers of the Council of the EU in his closing remarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u3	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u4	The President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in the final comments, totally ignored that statement. We can see that these rematching sentiments, they can be very serious today, in the international organizations in the position of Ukraine in the world. That's why I'm going to the session room with the proposal that the committee and I now make such a statement and accept it in the afternoon to be signed as the authors and heads of Parliament and the leaders of all parliamentary factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u5	Thank you. The next statement from two factions is the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. The leader of the opposition block, Novinsky, is invited to the presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u6	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! It seems that the parliamentary majority did not learn from the defeat of Peter Poroshenko. The Ukrainian people voted against attempts to impose on society at national level the ideology of cave nationalism by forcible use of one language, one world view, one type of behavior. The language law that is proposed to vote today breaks Ukraine apart, not unites it. It places a mine of slow action under an already unstable Ukrainian society. Moreover, this law can further widen the gap between various parts of Ukraine, not to mention uncontrolled Donbas and Crimea. Some of the people's deputies seem to have forgotten that the residents of the glass house shouldn't throw stones. For the sake of civil peace and tranquillity, in order to restore trust among citizens and trust citizens in the power of the opposition bloc, the faction proposes to introduce moratoriums in Ukraine to review laws and regulations that split the country. These include those relating to language, faith, and religious life, as well as conflicting aspects of history. The moratorium is to take effect for at least three years. During this time, the Supreme Council should focus on issues of socio-economic character and peace issues, vote on the laws that are expected of us in the implementation of the Minsk Accords. We are simply obliged to launch our industry into full power, to enable business to develop, to overcome negative trends in social life, and to improve the standard of living of Ukrainians. We feel that the language law is not in time. Ask the citizens if there are any hardships in Ukraine. Are they persecuted because they speak Ukrainian, are they discriminated against? On the contrary, the language bill in today’s version is discriminatory in its essence. It seems that the authors of the law have decided to demonstrate all complexes that have arisen in the background of the complex history of the oppression of the Ukrainian language of the Russian Empire and of the interwar Poland. So a simple analysis of the bill shows that it is far more reactive than those who once oppressed Ukrainian, it simply destroys Russian, Hungarian, Polish, Bulgarian, and other languages in Ukraine. Dear colleagues from the parliamentary majority, I understand perfectly what this law was for in the presidential election. You were trying to ensure that Peter Prashenko was defeated in the electoral environment with a nationalistic outlook. You can relax, your tactics didn't work, the people gave you an evaluation of your actions. If you do not have enough wisdom today, and your actions will lead to a higher degree of tension in society, you will have to bear moral and political responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u7	Thank you. I want to remind you, you've been doing a moratorium on Ukrainian for centuries. Those days are over. There will be no moratorium on Ukrainian language, there will be a Ukrainian language, and there will be the Ukrainian Language Act. Your time of empire is over. This is the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian future in the Ukrainian language. Today's language is not just a humanitarian issue for us, it's a matter of national security. And I'm announcing the continuation of the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (No.5670-d). And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. Mr. Mikolo, please. We waited a long time that day. I'm reminding you that we've completed our 2065 right-hand review. Edit 2065 has German and Shufrich authors. And I give the floor to Mr. German for amendment 2065. No, it's Shufrich today. Please, Mr. Nestor, 2065.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u8	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the people of Ukraine, we insist that we exclude the corresponding paragraph. We believe that this issue is already settled in another law, namely the National Commission Act, which regulates energy and utilities. Dear citizens, we are concerned about the procedure for adopting this law, because we insist that before the vote the Ukrainian national MPs have the opportunity to read the final text of this law. We were just told that there was a committee meeting yesterday, and we're surprised that the committee was considering the final text before all the amendments were considered. We consider this to be a gross violation of the Rules, and this position calls into question the constitutionality of the adoption procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u9	Thank you. I'm betting on the 2065 vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Vote. The committee turned it down. [[10:15:52]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 2067, Pisarenko. Don't insist. 2068. Don't insist. 2069. Don't insist. 2070. Don't insist. 2072. Don't insist. 2073. Germany. Please, Germany. No, Shufrich, 2073.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, on the right 2070, there is an offer to discuss it. I ask you to pass the word to Dudenkov, he insists on discussing the amendment of the previous. What's the repair number, Sasha? 2072 Debenkov insists on discussing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u11	Well, colleagues, you have, I gave you my word, you insist on performing in 2072. Yeah? Okay. Debtenko. Turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u12	Dear citizens of Ukraine, what is happening now? Now, in a bold way, this nationalist gang is trying to break the Rules to extend this bill. Look, the committee's draft decision is sent to the deputies in the morning. Now the Supreme Council has not yet considered this bill, they're already trying to change it in parallel, to change it. Accordingly, we insist that we adhere to the requirements of the Rules. We are against the rules because this bill violates the constitutional procedures and language rights of Ukrainian citizens. Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you, you're talking about no violations of the Rules. Now you're initiating these violations. I'm personally telling you that I'm going to file an administrative action.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u14	I will personally file an administrative action against your actions as Head of the Supreme Council, who is now abusing the service position in order to pass this bill in violation of the Rules procedure. This law, which creates a language ghetto, a total violent Ukrainianization, will not bring the Ukrainians together; it will be divisive. Follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u15	Thank you. I follow the Yotta Rules very carefully. You have signed letters against me in your corner, collect signatures, and then you'll go to court. So, colleagues, I'm voting on Amendment 2072. It's part of the committee. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[10:19:17]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 2073, Schofrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, the noble Ukrainian people! Of course, we are concerned about the fact that this law unites our society, without causing our neighbors to notice and worry both in the north and in the west of our country. Of course, today we understand the concern of Ukrainian citizens, but who are Hungarians, Romanians, and others according to their nationality. With regard to this amendment, we propose to exclude it, because the question raised is settled in the relevant Act on the Higher Council of Justice, and the repetition of these rules only complicates and is already very difficult in its form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u17	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2073. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. Please. [[10:20:45.]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 2074. Don't insist. 2075. Don't insist. Please, Princey, the author. 2075.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u18	Thank you. This is an amendment to our committee when we were working on the law. I'd like to take it into account, 2075, without the word "new" in the first paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u19	I bet on the vote of Amendment 2075. In the newsroom, the chairman of the committee, please. [[10:21:30.]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 2077. 2078, Martovicki. 2079, Dudenkov. Dudenkov, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u20	I'd like to pay attention to the 2077 proposal. Here's the chairman, the head of the Virginity Committee, who swore to God that he was in compliance with the requirements of the Rules. But that's not really true. In fact, we are witnessing a violation of the Rules. This person held a committee, a committee meeting, sent out draft decisions with amended proposals. I have a question, Mr. Knieżicki, to you as head of the committee that will report this bill. What procedure, what rule of the Rules were you guided by when you now suggest that during the second reading of the discussion change the text of the law? Your actions are contrary to the Constitution. You are now party to violations of the Rules and illegal acts. Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u21	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u22	We are acting exclusively within both the Constitution and the Rules and all laws of Ukraine. Yesterday we had a planned, scheduled meeting of a committee that discussed the proposals of other deputies. The decision was not taken, but the draft decision was sent to all colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u23	I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 2077. Who's to take it into account with those suggestions that have just been made by the Prince, please vote. [[10:23:41]] For-31 The decision is not taken. He's staying in the committee's office. 2078. Don't insist. 2079.78. Martovitch. 79 – Sažko. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u24	Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency. Besides the fact that this law is discriminatory, "Transitional" does not include such an amendment, I would like it to be, work because it concerns our social organizations, businesses. Chapter VIII of the Transitional Regulations of the Bill should be supplemented by a new paragraph of the following content: “Participation of article 33 of the Act does not apply to internal documents of public associations, political parties and legal persons of private law registered in Ukraine, as well as statutory documents, decisions of the governing bodies, documents that confirm the economic activity that has been approved in the established order to take effect by this law.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u25	Thank you. So I'm voting on amendment 2079. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[10:25:15]] For-28 The decision is not taken. 2080. Don't insist. 2081. Don't insist. And, honourable colleagues, the closing order is 2082, does not insist on the author. So the moment has come. We completed our consideration of all the rights to the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language. [[Applause]] Each revision was named. The rights of opposition have been fully protected, and I ask the committee head to give the final text of the rights to which it is necessary to return. And while the committee head will summarize this document, now I'm going to give the floor to all the heads of factions one minute at a time, if necessary I'm going to add 30 seconds. So I'm going to give out the largest fraction. And here is Arthur Gerasimov, the head of the Peter Dustenka faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u26	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Today in Parliament. and today, Parliament is to carry out a historic mission and adopt the Ukrainian Language Act as a national one, thereby strengthening the spiritual foundations and strengthening the national security of our country. By adopting the Language Law, we will fill in the 10th article of the Constitution, which determines that the Ukrainian language is the Ukrainian language. First of all, it is the establishment of a clear state policy for the protection and development of Ukrainian language. At the same time, this law will ensure full development and protection of the languages of national minorities. And I want to draw your attention to the rapid spread of Ukrainian on television, radio, media, literature and art over the last five years. And you will see that Ukrainian language has become one of the main unifying factors in our society. I would also like to point out that the bill on language is supported by the Ukrainian Intelligence, an intellectual elite, which is actively defended and defended by President Peter Poroshenko. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u27	One minute, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u28	That's why I'm addressing all my colleagues at the hall, and I'm asking you to reject today's party interests, political ambitions, any personal ambitions, we have as one to unite and support this historic decision of the Eighth Parliament of the Ukrainian Parliament, yes and generally of the Ukrainian Parliament, to support the bill on Ukrainian national language. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u29	Thank you, Mr. Arthur. Thank you for the faction's position. And from the People's Front faction to the word, Mrs. Victoria Sumar is invited. Please, Mrs. Victoria. Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall. Our colleagues now represent the positions of factions under the key law. Please show respect for each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u30	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, right now, under the walls of the Supreme Council, there are a lot of people, including my daughter. She was already born in an independent Ukraine. When she was born, she and I could not find a small Ukrainian - language booklet, a simple children’s book. And it was very hard to find. Next, she could not see the cartoons because there were, in fact, no translations in Ukrainian. Now we have a Ukrainian movie, we already have translations. When we were doing quotas here in this room, we were told, "There'll never be 30 percent of Ukrainian music on the radio, it'll be disgrace, abuse, we won't be able to listen and show." But now they're 50 percent, because Ukrainians are listening to their own, and this is becoming European and modern. That's why we can. Friends, let's believe in your language. And let us strengthen the position of the Ukrainians on their own land. And last of all, I can't help but say it. Yes, at the age of 14, tanks, Russian tanks arrived.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u31	Please finish one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u32	Russian tanks went where the Russian language was. And that's where the Russian military was admitted. Ukrainian language is the basis of the Ukrainian state. The Ukrainian Language Act is a demonstration of the Ukrainians' respect for themselves, and we are here, in this room, to the Ukrainian state, to the independent state of Ukraine and to all Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u33	Thank you. Please welcome Mr. Wilkul, representative of the Opposition Block, please invite you to your word. Colleagues, please, let us show honor to one another and listen carefully to the speakers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u34	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! In fact, there is no language problem anywhere other than the building of this cursed people, the Supreme Council. She's not in Lviv, she's not in Santa, she's not in Dnipropetrovsk or Suma. Except here. In the inflamed brain of the people’s deputies, there is a linguistic problem. It's not really a bill to protect Ukrainian national language. It's a bill prohibiting people from speaking except in the kitchen, because they can't prohibit, prohibit, speak any language except in Ukrainian. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the normals who have not yet lost their common sense, the national MPs of the pervasive factions, especially the majority of the south and east, – do not vote in favour of this bill that breaks society apart. It's not Europe. This is Europe, but in the 30s of the last century, Germany. Don't vote for this disgraceful bill. Ukraine is strong because it is a multi-cultural, multi-lingual, tolerant state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u35	Please finish the minute. I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, Ukraine is a multilingual, multicultural, normal tolerant state, and it is our strength, not our weakness. Don't vote for this bill, it splits the state and splits society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u37	Thank you. At the same time, I have to go to the previous speaker and protest that "the damn Supreme Council." In the Ukrainian society, the Russian Federation has been cursed by the State of the Russian Federation, which has voted in favour of the introduction of Russian troops to Donbas and Crimea. So please do not curse the Supreme Council chosen by the Ukrainian people. Please welcome the head of the Radical Party faction Laska Oleg Lazko. Mr. Lazka, you're welcome. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! From this high rostrum I address you with the words of the genius Vladimir Sosira: "Love Ukraine in dreams and appearances, I'm going to elevate my Ukraine, the beauty of it, forever living and new, and the language of his own word. " Our team is voting for this historic law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u39	From the faction of Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u40	"Clothe the language," we were asked by our philosophers, the pillars of our opinion, the thoughts of the Ukrainian nation, and today by the Ukrainian national institution, the state of Ukraine. Today we do nothing special; today we are implementing the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that Ukrainian is the national language of Ukraine. We vote on the law that governs its functioning, protects it and makes it in the language of the country, and by not touching any other language, respecting ourselves, we respect others, and others will respect us. We are voting today for a law that makes the Ukrainian Constitution effective and complete. The Ukrainian language is and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u41	Thank you. From the "Fatherland" faction, Andrew Kožemiakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u42	Honorable Head, honourable colleagues, Ukrainian language is the power of the Ukrainian people, who have been criminally deprived of us. And today, the position of the Fatherland faction remains unchanged, and we certainly support this project, and we urge other factions and national deputies to vote in favour of the protection of the Ukrainian language. "Paternality" has always protected Ukrainian language, especially during 2012 during the language field against the law of Kiwalova-Keleščenka here in the hall, along with our brothers "For Ukraine" group headed by Mr. Kirilenko, we then stood firm for the position of the language field at the Ukrainian house. And this made it possible for Ukrainian parliamentarians to be proud that we didn't lose that fight. Today we return to this battle and ask everyone to uphold this law and vote in favour of our Ukrainian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u43	Thank you. From Rebirth Group, please, Kiss.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Of course, it is normal and proper for every citizen of the country to speak the national language. And I am convinced that it is not too soon before everyone in Ukraine will be free to speak the national language in all areas. But I am also convinced that in implementing language law in our country, we need to take into account historical features, polyculture and the factor of multinationalism. Our group believes that it is necessary to refer to the Venice Commission as the advisory body of the Council of Europe on constitutional rights to conclude that the bill on ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national European standard and values is appropriate and that we will be able to draw the right conclusions on the conformity of the Constitution and European standards. And so is relevance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u45	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u46	Our group offers a second reading. I'm also turning to a united group called For Atonement. To decide, the members of this group and our deputy faction, Rebirth, will not vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u47	From the "will of the people" group, Eugene Ribczynski is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u48	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, city of Kiev, "Will of the People". Ladies and gentlemen, how I like all this. They say something is tearing the country apart, especially our Ukrainian language. Not corruption splits the country, not the billions that Janukovic took out, split the country, not war in the east splits the country, not bad roads, but unlocks Ukraine's Ukrainian language for something. And I'll tell you why. They think the poorest people in the country are Ukrainian. And that's true. Look who we got first at Forbesa. Look, they think we're almost poor, and they think their "Russian-speaking spring" is going to come across the whole world. And I'll tell you that in fact, with the largest resources in the world, Russia has one of the last places economically, with the best water resources, for example, they spoil most of the year. But they don't speak Russian, even though they passed the same law in 2003. They have skulls, Tatars, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u49	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u50	But if a headhead or a tartarin in Moscow starts filling out documents in the basking language, I think he's going to be in the FSB very quickly or the Russian police will explain where he lives. That's how I want to make it clear to them today what land they live on -- they live on our Ukrainian land! To the English language!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u51	Heroim Slava! From the government, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Viacheslav Kirilenko is invited to the floor, who has substantially joined the government in drafting the bill. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u52	Thank you, Mr. Head. Honourable voters, distinguished national MPs, if anyone ever planned to destroy or prevent the Ukrainian state, began with the destruction of the Ukrainian language. Now we have a situation where there is a strong independent Ukraine, but there is no law that protects Ukrainian language. This is unacceptable because in such a situation Ukraine continues to be threatened all the time because Ukrainian language is the main marker of modern Ukrainian identity and, as everyone now understands, is a major factor in national security. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has since the very beginning supported the 5670-d bill, introduced by the public through national MPs, virtually all groups and factions. We monitored the discussion that took place during the second reading, and I can responsibly state that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is ready to implement all the norms and points that provide for government participation in security.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u53	One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u54	in ensuring implementation, budget support for the law that will now be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Similarly, the government is prepared, according to one of the standards proposed, to bring the Law on the Protection of Indigenous Languages and National Minorities into Parliament within six months. The law that is currently under consideration has long transitional periods, it takes into account the desire and interest of all parts of the Ukrainian society. And on behalf of the government, I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to uphold this law today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Parubai, is invited to attend. Mr. Andrew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, Ukrainians, statesmen! For more than 120 years, Ukrainian language has been banned more than 120 times. And I'll remind you, colleagues, this spring nine years ago, remember who was in this room when the law of Koleschenka-Kivalova was passed. Remember? With the fighters, breaking down the hall, breaking down Ukrainian society. I welcome the President of Ukraine, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, to the hall! [[Applause]] Thank you, Victor Andryovich. Nine years ago, millions of Ukrainians were in despair of not being able to defend their language. Today, we have great honor. And it is an honor for each of us in this room to vote in favour of the Language Law. Here is the Ukrainian intelligence, on the balcony are the Ukrainian military, who have come to support us. [[Applause]] Writers, poets, dissidents. Let's give 'em a round of applause! [[Applause]] Because of their eyes, Ukraine is looking at us, today, without exaggeration, Ukraine is looking at us all to unite in this room. Because language today is much more than that, it's a matter of security and defense. And Putin is fighting, first of all, for the hearts and minds of the Ukrainians, and then the tanks come. Today, all of us must unite, all of us Ukrainians in this room. Put aside your political prerequisites, unite today and show all of Ukraine that we are united in the matter of language, language unites where language is a victory! Today we will adopt the law on Ukrainian language! Glory to Ukraine! Victory!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. And we are also very happy to welcome to President Yushchenk's session hall, which has done just as much, Victor Andryovich, for the introduction of Ukrainian, and this is also symbolic today very much supported. Dear colleagues, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u58	So, colleagues, this is the committee head. Colleagues, pay attention! The vote will still take place in a few minutes, until 11 because not all have arrived. I see a few people in the hall. Yes, now the committee head, was a very large law, and I would like to point out that you've all been given a decision by the committee, and now it's being handed out. Since the law was extensive, the chairman of the committee asks for 10 minutes. And, colleagues, the vote will take place at 11 o'clock, so that everyone in the hall will be in their seats. The factions from the factions have ended, now to 10 minutes – Mikola Knieżicki. And I'd like everyone to see the papers. Please, Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u59	Thank you. Dear friends, this is really a historic moment that the Ukrainians have been waiting for centuries, because for centuries the Ukrainians have chosen the right to speak their own language. The Ukrainians spoke their own language because according to the census of the late 19th century in all the governorates of the Russian Empire who were then in the territory of Ukraine, the majority spoke Ukrainian. In Crimea alone, the majority spoke Crimean Tatar, and Ukrainian was second. What happened next? Then came the terrible genocide of the Ukrainian people. First, the Shots fired in the '20s. You remember people who died just because they spoke Ukrainian. Waves, Swivel, Les Kurbas, Semenko - these names can be counted and counted. Horrible Holmes. The Holocaust, a genocide aimed at reducing the number of people who communicate with the Ukrainians. Millions of Ukrainians were destroyed because of this terrible genocide against the Ukrainians. World War II. Then, you remember, a terrible era of Russians when tens and hundreds of Ukrainians, Ukrainian dissidents, defenders were in camps where entire villages of Western Ukraine were evicted only for the reason that they were fighting banditry. In 1989 we were able to defend the Ukrainian language in the Soviet Union, but at the time of the reconstruction, this Parliament adopted the Language Act, which unfortunately was repealed. And you remember the protests that followed in Ukraine. Yesterday it was known that Russian passports were distributed in the territory of the temporarily occupied areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. And what's the excuse? The reason is that this is supported by the Russian-speaking population. If we don't adopt this law today, in a few years, Russian passports will be everywhere in Ukraine, and those who speak Ukrainian will be in Russia in camps and prisons, as they were before. We are indeed in a historic period. There's no state that's built where there's no Ukrainian. There is no State that is successful without the adoption of the Law on Speech. The Poles also spoke Russian, German in the empires, and today they speak Polish. The Baltic countries have restored their languages, flourishing successfully. Approval of the national language is the way to a happy life for Ukrainians. What I'm saying is that our law, being fair to the Ukrainians, in no way demeans any national minority, requires adoption, and we promise you that in six months legislation on the protection of the languages of national minorities and indigenous peoples. We will do our utmost to make all the people in Ukraine who live in Ukraine feel at home. We've counted most of the rights of the people's deputies. Colleagues, we have carried out administrative responsibility for breaking the law for three years, and in that time, free of charge in all areas of Ukraine will be established centres that will teach the Ukrainian language. State programmes will be created to support education in Ukraine, to support Ukrainian culture. The Ukrainian language is a soft - sounding, Ukrainian - speaking language. More than ninety percent of the children who went to schools in Odeschen, Donetskin, and Luhansk went to Ukrainian schools this year. Their parents, the military, who are here, are asking us to adopt this law. This law, by the way, introduces Ukrainian language into the army, but does not impose any sanctions or administrative penalties for not being able to speak Ukrainian. Because the Ukrainian military wants to and is now communicating in Ukrainian. The law will not be felt, perhaps by many people now, but in a few years, every Ukrainian living in Kharkiv, Lviv, Donetsk, will feel free at home, will feel protected because of his native language in his country, he freely communicates with representatives of other peoples who freely communicate in other languages in a democratic Ukraine. Because during the second reading of the bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support individual proposals and amendments to the Ukrainian National Deputies, which were taken into account by the Main Committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was not supported, the whole structure of the bill was disrupted and there was disagreement between its individual positions. In this connection, in order to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the adoption of the bill in the second reading and the Committee on Culture and Spirituality as a whole, he reviewed the text of the bill, taking into account the outcome of the discussion of amendments at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during its deliberations at the working meeting. With a view to preserving the integrity of the structural parts of the bill, eliminating contradictions and introducing editorial details, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality today decided at its meeting to recommend the following to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Drafting the second paragraph of part six of article 23 of the Law as amended by amendment 621, proposed by the Committee, by a decision of April 25, 2019 to supplement it with a condition for the deletion of the text in brackets. Return to the examination of individual rights, namely: 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, 59, 73, 130, 147, 167, 197, 203, 204, 246, 281, 282, 419, 420, 421, 423, 466, 621, 645, 652, 653, 792, 856, 871, 896, 898, 898. 900, 911, 1018, 1031, 1072, 1224, 1335, 1383, 1467, 1532, 1535, 1544, 1579, 1584, 1586, 1607, 1616, 1638, 1688, 1705, 1712, 1713, 1840, 1935, and support them in the text proposed by the committee under the appendix. Adopt, in a second reading and as a whole, the draft Ukrainian Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (Registration No. 5670), as proposed by the Committee, as a result of a second reading of the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the differences between the individual provisions of the bill. An addition to the committee's decision with the committee's proposals was sent to the National Deputies to consult the official e-mail addresses, and now the relevant units of the Apparatus have placed it in the Chamber among the deputies. Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, we still have a movie. Or we won't. We've got a five-minute film where we're all being approached by prominent Ukrainian public and cultural actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u60	Thank you. We'll support the committee's head. Please turn on the film. And, colleagues, I remind everyone that papers are being handed out. Please make sure everyone knows exactly what we're voting for. Please turn on the sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u61	Please welcome the most Holy Patriarch of Philaret in the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Welcome!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u62	Everyone, please enter the People's Chamber, come into the hall, take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u63	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. This is where the whole of Ukraine came together. For no one to doubt, it is important that we give our votes, for President Peter Poroshenko has confirmed that he will sign the law. We have all the prerequisites we need. We need to make a decision here. Every voice, fellows! Every voice! I'll remind you of the structure. Our first vote is we're going back to the rights read by the committee head. Our second vote is to confirm those rights. And the third vote is to vote in favour of the law itself. Colleagues will remember for many years who and how they voted on this day. I address everyone, my friends, to all the factions: put down all the fears, every language law that we've adopted, then society cheers. Everyone, please prepare for the vote and take up jobs. At this historic moment, we vote for justice, for dignity, for our greatest strength -- we vote for language. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to those lines that were bugged by the head of the committee, Mikola Princely, under the transcript. Please vote for the return. Vote! We support you, colleagues. Every voice! Vote! We're voting for the return. Please be supportive. Ukrainians, we vote! [[11:00:37.]] For 270. We're back. I would like to vote in favour of the confirmation of the rights of the head of the committee. Please vote, please support. Vote. Every vote, every vote, every vote, every vote. [[11:01:05]] For 277 Decision taken. We're getting bigger. And now I'm voting on the draft of the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language (5670-d) with the rights and proposals of the Committee, which the head of the committee, Mikola Knieżicki, has written under the transcript, with further technical and legal rights in the second reading and in general. Vote! We support Ukraine! Vote! We're backing up! Vote! To Ukraine! To the victory of Ukraine! [[11:02:00]] For 278 Decision taken. Welcome to Ukraine! Hello, all Ukrainians! Remember this moment. Language is victory! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u64	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u65	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u66	Glory to Ukraine! Hello, everyone! [[Applause]] Colleagues, please don't break up. There's going to be a vote on the agenda for the day session. I want to thank our intelligence, the poets, the writers, for what you've said, the volunteers, the military. Holy Patriarch Filaret, thank you! Mr. Victor Andryovich, thank you for being with us in these important moments for Parliament. Now, colleagues, getting into the agenda for making a decision. I'm asking everyone to be in position, that's five minutes. Don't come out! Five minutes, NATO and security. Everyone, please be seated, colleagues. We're working. Parliament's working. And so, colleagues, I am voting first for the day-to-day and decision-making draft Decision on the holding of the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine (10091). It is a unique thing that Ukraine is not a NATO member to hold the Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev. I ask everyone to support and vote. Vote. We support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision making. Vote. Colleagues, be careful not to break up. Vote. [[11:05:28]] For 259. Decision taken. Next draft of the Act on Amendments to the Act on Opposing Activities (10180). I ask everyone, colleagues, to support, this is the financing of our international partners for land exchange, which have been replaced by the Russian occupation. Please vote, please support, vote yes, for the inclusion in the agenda of the decision-making session. [[11:06:05]] For 237 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to introduce transparency and publicity principles in the area of the formation and implementation of state military and industrial policy (10248). Please vote, please support. This is a requirement for security and defence reform. We vote, we support, we vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[11:06:45]] For 176 The decision is not taken. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation. Colleagues, it was a misunderstanding when we didn't accept it, it's very important, it's a Euro-integration law, they've all been on our website, support, don't get confused, as it was before. I ask you to vote, support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. No, vote, Self-Help, vote, this is the European Union. Vote, colleagues, support. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:07:39]] For 261 Decision taken. Next draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conservation of Ukrainian forests (10201), Cervakova is the author and great initiator of the bill. Please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Vote, support! Vote. [[11:08:12]] For 273 Decision taken. Next 9532: Draft Law on common transit. An important joint effort between the government and the parliament. Please vote and support 9532, inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Voting, supporting. [[11:08:42]] For 249 Decision taken. Next, the draft Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Proceeds by Crime (9417). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:09:11]] For 233 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we can go to the draft Order for the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (No. 10091). And I invite you to the address of the Ukrainian national deputy Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna. The first vote is for consideration of the reduced procedure. Colleagues, help us get through faster. It's a short-term procedure. Support me. Hold on! Keep it short, colleagues. We've got a big day's work. [[11:09:58]] For 185 Decision taken. Mrs. Oksana, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u67	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! At the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, Ukraine has been represented by a permanent delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since May 1992 and has been an associate member. Ukrainian-NATO parliamentary cooperation is dynamic. This is evidenced by active contacts between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and NATO at a high level during bilateral visits, the regular participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the parliamentary assembly, the activities of the Inter-Parliamentary Council of Ukraine-NATO, and the organization of numerous parliamentary round tables of Ukraine-NATO. Since the beginning of the Russian aggression against our nation, the leadership of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has repeatedly and consistently demonstrated its support for Ukraine's territorial integrity, its independence, its sovereignty and its desire to pursue democratic reforms. The leadership of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has demonstrated its readiness to continue to implement national support for Ukraine, to cooperate consistently with the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to deepen partnership. Such cooperation will provide additional opportunities for the Ukrainian side to strengthen contacts with representatives of the parliaments of the member states of the Alliance and to expand their interaction with the parliaments of the NATO Assembly countries. In April 2017, the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization supported the initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold a Spring Assembly session in Ukraine, to be held in Kiev from 22 to 25 May 2020. Having a session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev will enhance Ukraine's authority in general and in Euro-Atlantic space, particularly in the light of our nation's aspirations for membership in the North Atlantic Alliance. The session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will consist of a wide range of actions, including plenary meetings, committee meetings, protocol arrangements, visits, etc. More than 600 foreign guests are expected to arrive, and a comprehensive solution to the issue of the organization of the national action requires effort.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u68	How much do you need? One minute, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u69	Involvement of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, a number of ministries and offices. In view of this, we consider it necessary to propose the preparation and holding of the session on the basis of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This decision provides for the establishment of an organizational committee to prepare for the spring session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which is to develop an appropriate plan of action. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment, because for the first time in the history of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and for the first time in the history of Ukraine, this session will take place in Kiev. When a parliamentary session took place in Lithuania in 2000, Lithuania became a NATO member in 2004. I want to urge all of you to support this determination and really join in the historic moment of creating the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. Please. Oh, we still have the report from. Please report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The head of the Anna Hopko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u71	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. This is really a historic moment today -- the adoption of the Law on Language, the protection and functioning of Ukrainian as a national. On February 19, Donald Tusk, president of the European Council, spoke from this rostrum in Ukrainian. And I think that the adoption of this law today is also an opportunity to strengthen our identity. This is extremely important on the way to the EU and NATO, which we have enshrined in our Constitution. When we talk about NATO membership and this preparations for the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly in Kiev in May 2020, and we are already preparing for that, I think it is very important to send signals to our NATO partners that Ukraine, which of the victims of Russian aggression, has become an advocate of European security. We're going to NATO strong. We go there with the best Armed Forces of Ukraine that protect us and Europe every day. I would like to say that in early April, there was a meeting in Washington before the 70th anniversary of the creation of the North Atlantic Alliance. Soon Northern Macedonia will be 30 states that will join NATO. And I very much hope that, thanks to our adoption of the ruling today, and also because there is an unchanging position in Ukraine, and I hope that the new President will join his team, and we invite him to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, he will immediately demonstrate his willingness to continue the course of full membership of the EU and NATO. I very much hope that in December, when the NATO summit takes place in London, we will be able to strengthen our positions by adopting a package for the implementation of the National Security Act, which is the reform of the Ukrainian Security Service, this is also the transparency of procurement in the security and security sectors, this is also the possibility of parliamentary control over the special services. That is why we are moving confidently towards NATO. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u72	Thank you. And now we're going to talk. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions to participate in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! For no one is the secret that if Ukraine were a full member of NATO in the 14th year, Ukrainian children, Ukrainian men and women were not killed on Ukrainian Donbassa, we wouldn't have had a monkey referendum in Crimea, we wouldn't have had repression against our Crimean Tatar brothers, and we wouldn't have much at all. So the historic chance that has come to our Supreme Council, which has taken very many steps towards NATO, is quite important to us that our inter-parliamentary delegation has done everything in order for this action to take place in Ukraine. This is one of the main indicators of how much the Alliance can and wants to work with a country that wants to become a participant. It is important now that we, like the language law, give as many votes as possible for this decree. This will be a beautiful signal and answer to the Fifth Column by those who do not believe in Ukraine, who think and say that Ukraine should exist only in the Russian Empire. That is also the answer for the Kremlin. That is why I call for support for this decision, to vote and yet to make our move towards the EU and NATO irreversible. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u74	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy John Krulk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The draft ruling, which is currently under consideration in Parliament, envisions the holding of a session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Kiev from 22 May to 25 May 2020. That is, we are making a decision on a move that concerns the Euro-Atlantic integration of our strategic partners already in order to bring parliament together again. And I would very much like to hope that in the new parliamentary call after the parliamentary elections here will be a Euro-Atlantic majority, there will be national MPs here who will support the course for Ukraine's membership in the European Union and NATO. And it's very important to make these decisions for a new composition. To demonstrate that Ukraine will consistently move towards its civilizational choice. And in fact, Ukraine's accession to NATO is perhaps even more important than Ukraine's accession to the European Union. Because by providing security for Ukraine, having strong strategic partners and being on the block of civilized countries that support peace and maintain security, collective security, Ukraine could be helped to win the war that Russia waged in Ukraine occupied Crimea and part of Ukraine’s Donbas. Only by having partners like the North Atlantic Treaty Organization can we get the territory back, we can get people back, and most importantly, we can bring peace back to Ukraine. And let this site, which we are now voting for, contribute to this dialogue and to Ukraine's rapid entry into the NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Fatherland will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u76	Thank you. But, dear colleagues, I see some have left the hall. We've already finished the discussion. I'm asking you to return to the hall. We supported the language, let's support NATO now. I ask the heads of factions to see who is not here, and invite the deputies to the hall. It was a closing statement, and we are moving on to making a decision. The next Law on Opposing Activities will be of great importance. I ask everyone to return to the hall. I'll remind you. Guys, look who's gone. I am addressing you: look and invite you to the hall. It was our initiative, it was very important. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly is the highest in fact the legislative body of the North Atlantic Union. It takes turns in all NATO countries. For the first time in Ukraine, there will be a Parliamentary Assembly, which is very rare in non-NATO countries. Where similar measures took place, countries became NATO members a year later. This is our path, this is our strategy, so I'm asking everyone to vote very responsibly and to be in the workplace, because we're already going to make a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Resolution on the holding of the Spring Session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (No. 10091) as a basis and as a whole. Colleagues, please vote, please support. To NATO! To Ukraine! Vote! We support you, colleagues. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. [[11:22:55]] For 219 My colleagues, there was too much euphoria in the hall. I ask everyone to return to the hall. The factions, please. Colleagues, don't come out, come into the hall. The factions. I know. Everyone, please return to the hall, colleagues. I know it's a great joy to adopt the Language Act, but we need to be in the Hall right now, because the NATO issue is just as much for us as it is for us. I'm asking you to come back. By the way, I would like to emphasize as long as people come back, that return to voting is a form that is provided for by the Rules. And when a lot of people say that I'm going back to the vote, that this is a violation, I say this is not a violation, this is the rule of the Rules, for the return. Now I'm going to put it back and then I'm going to re-vote the ruling. Please take up jobs. These are the votes we have no right to err on. Look, factions heads, can we cross, come up? Come in, have a seat, please. So I put the first vote: a return to the draft Order for the Spring Session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Ukraine. I would like everyone to vote very carefully, very carefully. We vote, we support the return. Please be supportive. Careful, colleagues, every voice. We're voting for the return. [[11:24:33]] For 236 We're back. There will be a vote now, Oksano, more carefully, more carefully. There will be a vote. We are now voting on the draft Regulation 10091 as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote. Careful, every voice. Vote. [[11:25:04]] For 235 It's been decided. Hello. Colleagues, welcome, this is an important decision. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the abbreviated. Colleagues, support the opposing activity for the abbreviated. There's one sentence that's complete procedure, colleagues. [[11:25:34]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Vinnik Ivan Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u77	Good morning, dear fellows! Indeed, the technical change that the drafters of the Anti-Nuclear Action Bill, which we adopted last year, are also supporting, in fact, our Western partners, who are now involved in financing this activity. The next issue is that the financial resources involved in anti-dumping measures and the donor’s decision are transferred directly to the perpetrator, and such measures can be carried out directly on the basis of direct legal relations. Of course, they will be guided by the general principle through the central executive authority, through the National Opposing Centre, they will be guided by these legal acts. But it is allowed to finance directly according to the decision of the donor. Please support this revision. There is no discussion here. I suggest we don't waste time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u78	Thank you, Sir John. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Please, People's Deputy Kurilo, may I have your word?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u79	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I ask you to support this bill because it is very important. It's not only important to those soldiers who land on those mines, it's important to the civilian population and especially to children. Because we may suffer the most from mines that have been planted for tens, hundreds of miles, square miles, children, children who are innocent, who are not banned from walking everywhere, and, as a result, we already have dozens of children who have been killed or disabled from this mine war. Therefore, my request to support everyone. The Peter Prashenko faction will vote unanimously in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u80	Thank you for the faction position. Dear colleagues, Taras Shepherd is invited to attend. He represents the position of the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! The Self-Help faction will support this bill, because it should actually have been accepted, probably 3-4 years ago. By the time the international community was ready to join financially and technically to help Ukraine to exchange territories that had already been freed from the invaders. However, over the past few years, there has been a long struggle between those who will benefit from these funds, how they will be developed, and, in fact, international partners have seen it, and have been constantly calling on Ukraine to build a transparent procedure for the use of those funds, and allowing them to also exercise control over the spending of those funds. In such editions, as previously prescribed in various bills, they actually had enough comments. And this amendment, which was in the previous bill, had a very different meaning. In the way it is now prescribed, it will indeed allow those donors who are now willing to help Ukraine make effective use of, through those subcontracting organizations that have experience in the world today, have trained personnel, have appropriate equipment and can, in fact, effectively carry out work in that territory that is already released to be safe for the use of our citizens. So I urge everyone to come back, who is now out of the plenary, to their jobs and to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you. Yes, are they desirable from groups and factions? Please, People's Deputies of Doubenkov, give me your word. You will present the position of the opposition block of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u83	Dear Ukrainian citizens, what exactly is this bill about? The bill refers to an international aid funding mechanism. Ukraine, in principle, is not a self - sufficient country. There's a lot of talk about independence, but, sorry, it's very hard to win independence with a bare back. The bill says that international financial, international organizations, charities that allocate funds should direct them directly to subcontractors. What does this indicate? They were coming through because these are our Democrats, who are piranhas, and when it comes to it, there's theft, there's theft, there's theft, there's Ucrobanprom theft. Europeans don't trust you. On the one hand, you talk about patriotism, you wear embroidery, and on the other hand, you just steal at the expense of the state budget. That's what this bill is about. Europeans say, "That's enough, we're going to give you money, but directly to sub-organizations."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u84	Thank you. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u85	These costs will not be channelled through the state budget. So we're talking about the need to carry out the opposite activity, of course. But, honourable citizens, by making these decisions today are really contributing, at this difficult time for our country's decision, you only distance those citizens who live in an uncontrollable territory. And when, Mrs. Heratschenko, you talked about Ukrainians getting Russian passports, they're after this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I'm not talking about Russian passports, and Putin signed a criminal decree to issue Russian passports to Ukrainian citizens. And if you'll excuse me, I'm not speaking, but I'm going to oppose this in any position. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, have all the groups and factions spoken out?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I also invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mrs. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in this session room that mines today are a key humanitarian challenge for Donbas, and especially to know about this, who are tearing up their Kosovars, protecting the Russian-speaking population of Donbas, but at the same time blocking any humanitarian decisions that will help the people, including the occupied territories. You know, Ukraine is now the fifth country in the world to replace Afghanistan, Libya, Yemen, and Syria. It's terrible information in fact: 7,000 square miles are being replaced today. And this is our commitment, the Ukrainian authorities and the opposition, including doing everything we can to minimize the risks to the civilian population. Colleagues, this rule was prescribed in a law that we passed a few months ago. But here in the hall it was just shouted that it was kind of corrupt and broken this norm, and then we got letters from our international partners asking us to bring Ukrainian legislation to European standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u89	Please, 30 seconds. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u90	Because when we were preparing this law, we took the experience of legislation according to Croatia, other countries where there is the same problem. It's not about any theft and no mistrust of the state, but it's about creating the appropriate trusts of NATO countries, and these trusts will help directly in civilian exchange, and it's our responsibility to support it now. And today, colleagues, in Parliament, the vote only confirms the relevance of President Dustenk's slogan: "Army. Language. Faith" – which can actually give Ukraine the same chance to become strong and independent. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u91	So, colleagues, from Shahov's will, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u92	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, this is certainly an important bill for Ukraine, for Ukrainians. I'm from Lugansk myself, and I know how many are replaced and that we need to exchange our Ukrainian land. But you have to control every penny, because the officials who made it are the governor of the Lugansk region, the Governor of Garbus, who had to be planted long ago: 74 million dollars that have been stolen. I claim and make this statement to register with the GDR and check out all the money that was allocated back that year. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u93	Colleagues, pay attention! In two minutes, the vote will take place. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We've had a technical correction that we've been given. From now on, I give the word to Yuri Lewchenkov. He'll read it under the transcript. I ask everyone to pay attention, and we will vote on this amendment. But the heads of factions I ask everyone to enter the hall, there must be more people in the hall. Turn on the microphone to Levchenkovi, after his speech, the vote. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u94	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. See, that's what happens when you're in such a hurry. I remind you, by the way, that we had no right to consider this bill right now, and we were supposed to be looking at it in the evening session. Well, at the same time, the bill is correct, but it has a technical problem. The third paragraph of part two of article 8 contradicts the second paragraph. Right. Therefore, in order for it not to conflict with the second paragraph, it is necessary to add to the second paragraph, which now reads as follows: "The financial resources involved by the donors are credited to the Special Fund of the State Budget under the relevant budgetary programmes." And then you have to add: (whom) except for the case. Except for the case in part three. In the third paragraph of article 8, I apologize. That is, apart from the case outlined in the third paragraph, so that there is no contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u95	Thank you. So, what I want to say is, I'm going to put it to a vote -- does the committee support it? - with an update that Lewchenko just made. Mr. John, come on. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Colleagues, we're not enough in the hall. So, colleagues. My colleagues, I would like to point out that this law allows us to make donations from our partners from Japan, Britain, the European Union, the United States, Canada to exchange our lands, which have been replaced by a Russian aggressor. And that's why I call on everyone, all the factions who care about Donetsk and Lugansk, who care about the people of Donetsk and Luhansk, to support the colleagues. Ready to vote? Why don't you come to the hall? Please, Vinick. One minute and we'll vote. We go into the hall, we don't leave the hall -- the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u96	In the third paragraph of article 8, paragraph 2, the sentence begins. In the second paragraph of article 8, in paragraph 2, please complete the sentence after the words "budgetary programmes" - "except for the cases provided for in paragraph 3 of this paragraph". So we're going to divide the two alternatives, the donors can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u97	Got it. The amendment agrees with the committee. So we can make a positive decision. Please don't leave. Well, what is done in the heads of people coming out of the hall when voting on such laws? We can talk a hundred times about the support of our citizens, and when we need a decision from us, we're not in the hall. Colleagues prepared for the vote, and I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Nuclear Action Act on Improving the Mechanisms for Funding Anti-Nuclear Action (No.10180) with an amendment that was made by the representative of the committee, John Winnick, on the basis and in general. Please vote and please support. Colleagues, everyone, please vote and please support. We vote, we vote responsibly, we vote. [[11:39:58]] For 223 We didn't make it. I saw it. This means that everyone who comes out of the hall today, and now in these seconds. I'll be right back. Everyone, please come into the hall. I would like to point out that today our brother Constantine Uss, with a leg injury, came to work in the hall. This is an example for all deputies. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Now I'm coming back, and then I'm putting the law in. All right, everybody, get ready. I'm voting first for the return to draft Law 10180. Please vote, please support. To return. Every voice. Vote. We're backing it up. For the exchange, for our citizens. [[11:41:04]] For 223 Let's see the factions. I'll set it up again, colleagues. I don't understand how there can be zero in those people who care about the region. Come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u98	Returning to a vote is not a violation of the Rules. The return to the vote is clearly provided for in the Ukrainian Rules. If someone indicated from the hall that his card had not worked or that he had not been able to vote, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was obliged to return to the vote. I see. Every voice. Take up jobs. The first vote is for returning to the draft Act on Opposing Activities in Ukraine. Please vote, please support. Opposable activity, please. Let's vote now. Please be supportive. We're voting for the return. Careful, colleagues, every voice. [[11:42:09]] For 238. We're back. Now I'm putting Law 10180 on the ground and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Vote. Our citizens, who are ahead today, need our support. [[11:42:34]] For 234 The law is passed. And, colleagues, we are now moving to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation. Colleagues, last time there was a misunderstanding with this bill. I'm asking you to support him now. This is a wonderful bill for Ukraine's European integration. First vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote, support! [[11:43:22]] For-179 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on industrial policy and entrepreneurship by Krysz Hennady Grigorovovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u99	Thank you. Good day, dear fellows, good day, Mr. Chairman. Today, I propose a bill on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation. We all remember very well, and I would like to thank everyone who voted in favour of Bill 6235. Just two months ago, we didn't have enough votes to vote on it in general. We finalized the bill and, along with our fellow MPs, registered a new bill with some additions and observations. And literally a few days ago, we discussed on the committee bill 10183, which took into account all the comments that were made by other colleagues of our national deputies. And our committee decided to vote on it in the first reading as well as with a reduced procedure for second reading. So I would not want to spend much time, as they say. There are so many bills under consideration today. Some of the colleagues approached with regard to the second reading. I'd like to say right away why first reading is because there's a warning from colleagues at the Self-Help faction. So I understand that on the basis and in general we will not be able to vote on it. So I would like to invite Parliament to vote on the bill according to the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u100	Colleagues, the law is impeccable! Now I'm going to say two in, two in, two in. Let's talk briefly and accept it quickly. Just on the ground. I'm telling all the critics, just on the ground. Please two in, two in, two in. Lensky, please. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u101	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this extremely important bill, it is part of a package of drafts that we call "industrial carnage," because it is part of a road map to improve Ukrainian access to export markets. It must be accepted, it is very important. But this is not the only law that needs to be passed immediately, because we need to systematically rebuild the Ukrainian economy from raw materials to manufacturing and provide support for exports abroad to Ukrainian producers. To start the Export Credit Agency, so it wouldn't be a breadwinner, yes, for an official top, and to actually lose credit for Ukrainian producers, it was guaranteed by their export contracts. To provide for public funding for certification and participation in foreign exhibitions of Ukrainian producers, because Turkey thus supports its exporters, Poland thus supports its exporters, and the Ukrainian authorities are helplessly watching how the Ukrainian economy continues to be raw and deepens poverty in the country. So Oleg Láška's team proposes to support this important bill, once. And two. To hold an industrial development day in Parliament to consider those bills on which production associations insist: Federation of Ukrainian Employers, UCP, Ukrainian Business Association. It's about the industrial reform package: "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians", industrial parks, free networking, it's a waste of credit for Ukrainian producers, it's an investment incentive for Ukraine to invest in economic development, it's a new job for Ukrainians with high wages. Hold on!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u102	Thank you. It's a closing act. It's from Peter Dustenka's Block, Melnik Sergey Ivanovich. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support this bill. In fact, it's really important to the Ukrainian manufacturer. When we passed the Law on Technical Regulations and Responsibility Assessment, we took a very important step. Regrettably, however, the government by its decree did not fully regulate the order and rules of compulsory insurance for the professional responsibility of designated authorities for assessing the conformity and recognized independent organizations for damage to third parties. And paragraph 8 provided for a notary copy of the mandatory insurance agreement for professional liability for damage. So today, if we accept it, we're opening the way so that our Ukrainian producers can export products and ensure a high quality, and that will allow us to fill the Ukrainian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, Irina Heratchenko's closing statement. I'm calling on all the national deputies to come into the hall. I would also like to report that after this vote it was requested that the Chaplains Act be included only in the order of the day’s session. And I'm going to make this proposal. One minute, Irina Heratschenko, and we'll go to the vote. Come into the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u105	Friends, you know I'm very happy to hear this merger of the hall around this bill, it's extremely important, really, for the Ukrainian manufacturer who today is forced to buy a license for tens of thousands of euros or dollars to go to European markets. I call on the hall to now vote it as a basis and as a whole, because this is actually an economic agreement on an association. We discussed this law with you and knocked it down because of the lack of voices then in the hall. And today, a small and medium-sized business that is trying to get into new markets in the European Union, the countries are really begging Parliament. Well, let's give them a chance. We've accepted everything. That's the law. We weren't in the hall. This is our responsibility. And today I thank all the factions that support it. Friends, it's a new deal, but it's economic for an association that protects a Ukrainian producer! Let us now vote it as a basis and as a whole. A moment, now, to Mr. Curves ’ word, to bring certain things together under the stenogram. And we're just going to get a big round of applause from all of Ukraine's regions today, from the middle of business -- people who create jobs, fill the Ukrainian budget today, big applause and support. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to support this law as a whole today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u106	Thank you. Colleagues, we lay the groundwork. If there's support, I'll put it all together. Screwdriver, 30 seconds. And, fellows, come into the hall, don't joke, come into the hall. Heads of factions, gather the deputies in the hall. The author of the law is Krivoshea, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, well, I thank you all very much again, thank you speakers. Indeed, in principle, if we have the will today and we can vote it as a basis and as a whole, I would like to go back to that. But one way or another, there is a committee decision. Let's vote for the basis of it. But if it's not in general. If there's a possibility in general, it's only with editorial rights that there won't be any moments later. Thank you very much, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u108	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I want to remind you, everyone on the air is talking about European integration. This is one of the fundamental laws necessary for the implementation of the Association Agreement. Come into the hall, colleagues, don't be in beds right now. Mr. Alexander, if you please. Colleagues in beds, please return to the hall. So there's not such a disgraceful practice as the last time we just weren't in the hall. So the first vote. I'm putting it on the ground. Thank you all, thank you for understanding. And I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of European Union legislation in the field of technical regulation (10183). The first vote is on the ground. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Careful! Every voice! We're voting on the ground. We're backing it up. [[11:52:47]] For 241 Decision taken. There was an offer: in general, with technical law. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:53:11]] For 202 No voices. Colleagues, but what I'm going to ask you is short-circuited procedure for second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, because you have to give the table in 10 days, you know that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll set up a resolution room. Ask the committee to vote me in favour of a brief consideration for the second reading. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[11:53:53]] For 206 It's not a decision, colleagues. Thus, Law 10183 was adopted as a basis. Colleagues, I have a big request. Attention! We have the next draft of the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the Mariupol drinking water supply project. France gives us the money to make in Mariupola. Clean the water. This is our duty to the citizens. I'm going to draft the Ratification Act 0218. And I'm asking for the first vote for the shorter procedure. Vote. We're backing it up. For short. It's a very simple ratification, it's an opportunity for the French to give money to Ukrainians for clean drinking water in Mariupol. [[11:54:45]] For 214 Decision taken. I invite you to speak to Maria Ionov. Wait a second. And then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u109	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration at its meeting discussed the draft Law ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the supply of drinking water in Mariupoli. You know the difficult situation with drinking water in Mariupoli, we depend, this city depends on the supply of water to Donbas water, which is in the temporarily occupied territory. So this ratification of the treaty, it will allow 64 million euros to be involved, which will allow a modern complex to be introduced in Mariupoli, precisely for cleaning and decontaminating water for the purpose of providing people and enterprises with quality drinking water, and to modernize the existing central water supply and water supply system, as well as to create backup water sources for the city in case of emergencies. Under the Framework Agreement, therefore, the project envisages the development of a master plan to improve the water supply and water supply system of Mariupol by 2040, and the loan is granted for a period of 30 years, including a 10 - year credit period, and the interest rate on credit is zero. The committee therefore considers it appropriate to ratify the agreed framework agreement, and it agrees with the decision of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support and thank you very much for your attention, because we will contribute to solving both the social and environmental problems of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u110	Colleagues, I'll include a discussion. But please, as concise as possible. Please, two in, two in. And don't leave the hall. They demand a word, Mr. Maxim. But please, very briefly. From Peter Dustenck's Block, Lubinets. In short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u111	I urge the entire room to support this bill, because it's really not just that. This will enable Mariupol to really bring the water supply into order. And what I'm saying is that this is going to be an indicator of the support of our city of Mariupul. I would also like to draw the attention of all colleagues to the fact that there is a problem at all with the Donbas utility. We have every day the threat is that the Donbas Water KP will be disconnected from the power grid. Therefore, I also urge the members of the people to join. There is a draft bill to include and vote in general so that the entire Donetsk region is not disconnected from the water. That's why the hall is now supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u112	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u113	Since 2014, when our team, such as Dmitri Linko, Andrew Lozova, Igor Mosiyczuk, other Ukrainian patriots have done their utmost to free the Ukrainian city of Mariupol from occupation, we have taken care of the development of this beautiful city. The key is to connect with Mariupul. According to our proposal, this year’s budget has allocated billions of dollars to repair the road from Zaporozhye to Mariupol. We've come to the government, to the General Staff, to the Ministry of Defense, and we've offered to re-establish aviation connections with the cities of Berdjansk and Mariupol. On our proposal, the Crucifixion finally put new trains to Mariupol and reduced the time limit for the train from Mariupol to Kiev and back to 14 hours, before the day, people were getting in the trunks of the old people from Mariupol to Kiev. According to our proposal for the last two years, Mariupol has allocated over 200 million dollars of social and economic development subsidies. In particular, there's a new kindergarten on Volunteers, a capitalized technologist's excellent teaching facility, a children's creativity center for Mariupols, a 1st hospital, a children's hospital in Mariupol, and there's still a lot of plans for this. I want to thank Mayor Mariupol Vadim Boychenk and the entire city team, who spent a few years finding credit resources and providing Mariupol with clean drinking water. This is a strategic question for us, for the function of Mariupol, for the people of Mariupol to drink clean drinking water. So our team is voting for the ratification of this agreement, and 64 million euros will be directed towards providing Mariupol with clean drinking water. Mariupol, we're with you!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u114	Colleagues, closing statement, and we move on to the vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. Please invite everyone to the voting room. Let me remind you, after this vote, I'm going to put an offer just to put the Military Chaplains Act in order for the committee to consider, and then we're going to take a break. Now there's two votes. So, from the People's Front, the closing act is Grandmaster Mikola. Briefly, we move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u115	The People's Front will support this ratification. We call on all of our colleagues to support, too, and to ensure that our mariopolitans receive clean water. We're for our citizens. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u116	So, colleagues, I'm continuing the session until the conclusion of the debate. We will support Mariupol, show that Ukraine is the only one and our hearts with them. I am voting on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on official support for the Mariupol drinking water supply project (0218) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. Don't come out now, we're voting. [[12:01:31]] For 258. Decision taken. And, colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Law on Military Chaplainship so that the committee can just consider it so that they can just consider it. So I'm putting a motion to vote, putting the draft Military Chaplains Act (10244 and 10244-1) into the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support, vote. [[12:02:14]] For 213 My colleagues, I'll put it back together. Again. Draft Law on Military Chaplainship, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Vote! Vote! It's only in the agenda of the inclusion session so that the committee can consider it. Vote. [[12:02:42]] For 223 Three votes. I'll set up a closing session, colleagues. Three votes! Please! This, look, I'm not gonna put it on today, I'm just gonna turn it on. Just turn it on, colleagues. Hold on! Is that right? Let's go. Have a seat. I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session the draft Military Chaplainship Act (10244, 10244-1). If there's any will, we'll look at it after lunch. If there is such political will. Please vote, please support. We'll support the military chaplains. Vote! We're backing up! Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Vote. [[12:03:34]] For 236 Decision taken. I'll have the committee consider it. And I invite Mrs. Irina Heratchenko to the announcement because many have not been able to vote for the language. We actually have more, we just don't all have time, we don't all have a card. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u117	Yes, colleagues, indeed, two statements came to the fore: from the Ponmarov People's Deputy, who did not use his card during the vote, and he asks that his vote be considered draft Law 5670-d, on the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a state language as "restraint". And the principle for the People's Deputy, Alexander Sugonjak, who also had no card, is asking him to count his vote for the draft Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language (No. 5670-d) – for. "For," the card didn't work. Thank you. Yeah, two votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u118	So we already have 280, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u119	No, no! One's held up and one's in favour is 279.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u120	279. So, colleagues, now, according to the Rules, I have to announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:35, I invite everyone into the hall to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u121	So the colleagues, the time taken for the break, are exhausted. And, colleagues, let me explain the logic to you right now and ask for all the support. When we voted in the agenda of the day session, we received a large number of votes in the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conservation of Ukrainian forests – 280 votes almost, we have a chance to adopt it now. Then to adopt two government bills, which envision a huge amount of assistance to Ukraine -- 500 million -- and then to reform the parliament. But so that we can get through this, colleagues, so that we have enough time, we have a very important reduced procedure. As we now enter into the hourly review of the long procedure, we will not be able to achieve any government or reform of Parliament. Please. That's why I'm asking for 150 votes now. I'm making a request, colleagues. Each of you will make a decision. So, colleagues, I'll remind you, we've included 10201-1, and now I'm going to suggest we look at it in a simplified procedure. This will give us a chance to do more. If it's an hour, we're going to have a less chance, so maybe we'll just forget about the neo-opposition opposition a little bit, and we'll support the band. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Please prepare for the vote. So the first vote. It's a very simple, technical law. Simple, technical law. I'll bet. Please invite everyone from the towers. I'm voting for a proposal to draft Law 10201-1. We'll consider a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. He was supported like everyone else. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:41:25]] For 116 Colleagues, you tell me, pay attention! - Anyone have a warning about this law? Or it's easy. I won't. Yeah, right? Then, colleagues, let's wait 30 seconds. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Let's go into the hall, call them. My colleagues, once again, we have a nice and bright atmosphere in the hall today. We have an order of the day. I'll remind you: the Law on the Conservation of Ukrainian Forests, then the 2 government, then the 3 reforms of Parliament, then the PEC, the fuel-energy complex, including green tariffs, which many people have talked about. But to get through it, that agenda, we can't go into full procedure, it'll take an hour. We have been very honest for three weeks looking at the remedies. Now is the time for more dynamic work. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to take up jobs, get ready to vote. And I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we consider the Ukrainian Forest Conservation Act as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. Each voice, support, support, colleagues. Vote. [[12:42:55]] For 135 I'll put the third time in. But those holding back, tell me, my friends, do you have a warning? Let's see the factions. I'll do it again. Yes, colleagues, I'm talking to my friends, supporting us so that we can get through quickly, dynamically. It is simply a unifying law that will enable all of us to mobilize and then pass government laws. It's just a chance for us to mobilize the entire hall. Please take up your jobs because time is running out of time. And this is the time of our chances, of our work. The voices will be here soon. It's a victory. Come on in. Don't leave, please. Come in, vote. You're ready, aren't you? All of it. Okay. Guys, if there's no warning, maybe you can back me up. Andrew, Jurko! Perhaps if it is supported, if there are no warnings. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal that the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conservation of Ukrainian forests (10201-1) should be considered in a simplified procedure. And I'm asking you to support everyone. I really do ask everyone to support me. Vote. We support, colleagues, no matter what factions we support. We're voting on our colleagues. Every voice. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues, let's turn it on. [[12:45:15]] For 176 Decision taken. It's a victory. No, no. I invite you to the floor of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Chervakov Olga Valeriyovna. And I'd like to be brief. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u122	Thank you. Good day, fellow colleagues, it's a very technical bill, it's very short and it's aimed at correcting the parliamentary error that we made, unfortunately, last fall, when we voted in favour of the Law on the Conservation of Ukrainian Forests and the Prevention of the Illegal Export of Unprocessed Timber. This law has established a monetary equivalent for criminal liability under article 246 of the Criminal Code on illegal logging. This money equivalent is now 2,000 untaxed minimums -- it's a major damage, and 5,000 untaxed minimums -- are the severe consequences of deforestation. But the betrayal lies in the fact that colleagues, in this case, do not use 17 dollars as a minimum as an administrative one. And 960 bracelets is the size of the social benefit, this explanation is contained in the Transitional Positions of the Tax Code. So it's a socially dangerous type of crime, like illegal logging of forests, that we have the assumed responsibility that it will become a criminal responsibility, only if blacks cut into 2 million bracelets, it's almost 1 hectare of forest. Only one hectare of forest, no less, is criminally responsible. Dear colleagues, this tied the hands of both the prosecution and the courts. During three months of this year, 31 criminal cases have been closed by the courts, all of which are open to suspicion. This bill suggests that we simply mechanically reverse and incorporate into the law what we meant, not what we unfortunately did. Please support this bill, it is very important for the Ukrainian forests to cease to be uncontrolledly exterminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u123	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship of People's Deputy Victor Halasyuk to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u124	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank all the drafters -- both Mrs. Chervakovi and Mr. Kiral. And especially thank you for calling off the basic bill in order to conduct this alternative in order to fully reconcile all positions. We have worked very closely with the Chief Legal Authority, and it needs to be accepted immediately in general. Dear colleagues, the two basic standards contained in this bill. It's to reduce the excessive monetary equivalent of damage, which is a condition for criminal liability, because it really happens, as Mrs. Cervakov said, that 17 bracelets is an untaxed minimum of citizens' income in the Criminal Code to determine the amount of a fine, but to qualify a criminal offence, there's a special rule that predominates over the base, there's 960 dollars. That's why we need to fix this colossal. Moreover, the bill further doubles the administrative responsibility for illegal logging of forests, violations of the established regime for the use of forest funds, destruction or damage to forest strips. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has considered this bill and recommends to Parliament that it be adopted in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a technical law. I would also like to point out that we will certainly not stop at this in the area of development of the Ukrainian forest industry. Because with the same forest area in Poland, Ukraine produces 11 times less forest products. And this needs to be completely rectified. So in the near future, we plan to have a ban on the export of wood in Parliament and to implement the Forest Market Act, which will provide all real producers with raw materials without corruption, without bureaucracy and without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u125	30. It's over, isn't it? Thank you. Let us move on to the discussion with a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u126	The People's Front will support this law. We'll do everything we can to keep our forests safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u127	Thank you. May I have the floor of National Deputy Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, well, few of our corrupt law enforcement agencies are involved in cracking illegal logging. It is not enough that forest management, which is state - owned, is doing the same thing in this illegal business. It is not enough that the customs office and other authorities on this subject have made such a sad mistake. And hopefully it was an accident. But in any case, it is our duty to correct this coincidence so that it is at least a formal opportunity to attract those who destroy the potential of our country, which destroys nature, the lungs of our cities and villages, to at least fear the law and the rule of law. Because right now, it's clear that no one is in a hurry to catch those fellers, that there's a lot of law enforcement, but at least a formal reason for ordinary citizens to complain and say, "Look, there's a crime going on here, criminal crime." We need to get this situation back. Our parliament must not promote logging, but it must prevent them, at least in the way that we have. So, my friends, let's correct this kind of unpleasantness and vote in favour of this bill. The Fatherland faction clearly supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u129	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergei Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u130	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Self-Help faction will of course support the correction of this error, although perhaps someone wanted these 33 criminal cases to be closed, but indeed mistakes need to be corrected. Because unfortunately, the previous law has actually set too high a threshold for determining the significant damage that criminal responsibility is after: that's more than 2 million dollars for crimes of average gravity, and that's over 4-4.5 million dollars for complicated or large-scale cuts. Instead, I would like to stress once again that we are about to vote in favour of an alternative bill by Olga Cervakova, which I have also joined as co-author. But to answer those civil activists and co-authors of my core law, which we really called yesterday for a committee decision and an insistence on the secretariat that this law absolutely includes all the rules of the main bill, solving this problem, but also complements it by setting it up. double the fines for criminal liability and removing certain imbalances between administrative and criminal responsibility. And once again, I would like to thank those public activists, such as Sergey Pototsky of the Center for the Monitoring of Authority, as well as the Associate Professor of Legal Law of the Kyiv-Mogilian Academy of Havronjuk Mikoli Ivanovich, who, a month ago, drew my attention to this problem and helped quickly and expeditiously respond by registering the basic bill. Today we have an alternative, it's better, it's more balanced. So I urge the entire room today to support and vote and solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u131	Thank you. And I invite you to the final address from the factions of the People's Deputy Alexi Musaka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, we support this law actively and we are moving towards an important bill today on temporary commissions of inquiry. Parliamentary control must be restored and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u133	Thank you. One more minute for Yuri Lewchenk. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u134	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Now, look, this bill is an excellent indicator of how completely ineffective this Supreme Council of Ukraine is. The point is, why this problem arose. This problem came about because they just got mixed up, well, at best, they got mixed up, and how does the Criminal Code define an untaxed minimum of citizens' income, which is the size, in fact, of this untaxed minimum, yes. And they wrote totally funny numbers, numbers to determine the sanctions in the Criminal Code. And here's the question: here's for voters, whether there's a difference for voters, the fact that either there's fools sitting here, or there's thieves sitting there. There's no difference, the result is the same. I think it's just a review of this bill that shows that this Supreme Council isn't effective and it's supposed to be dissolved a few years ago. And even now that they're correcting a mistake, they still leave funny fines -- a fine of 6 to 14 non-taxable minimums, that's when an untaxed minimum of 17 dollars is defined here. So what kind of fine is 150 bucks? Well, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u135	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'll give you a minute. Didn't the Opposition Block act? All right, one minute. Okay? Mr. Longenkov. Okay. And Shahov is one minute. Colleagues, please invite everyone into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u136	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, will certainly support any legislative initiative aimed at strengthening the fight against illegal deforestation. But instead, I would like to say that perhaps the vast majority in the Supreme Council, especially members of the coalition, are probably fools and thieves, using the language of the representative of Freedom. Because unfortunately, the effect that you would like to achieve in the form of a ban on the export of wood-breeding in the form of manufacturing in the field of wood processing has never been achieved. So unfortunately, these measures aren't systemic and complex, they're not going to change the situation in general. But it is certainly necessary to increase sanctions, but that is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u137	Colleagues, well, they're done talking. Okay, from factions, but in a minute, colleagues. And, look, we have a big agenda, let's make it very short. From the Radical Party of Halasyuk, then the Shahov, then the vote. And invite the people into the hall, please. Noisyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u138	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, the moratorium on the exports of roundwood, which you and I have brought into this room for 10 years, works and works very effectively. We're looking closely at the statistics of the State Fiscal Service. And I can tell you that in just the first year of operation, the moratorium on investment in woodworking in Ukraine has more than doubled. These are billions of healthy investment funds, not IMF loans. Today, these investments are needed by Ukraine as air. Moreover, raw exports increased by 4 billion a year, including furniture, half a billion additional revenue. And these effects would be even greater if there were no loopholes that the current authorities are hiding on the smuggling of roundwood forests. Therefore, the Radical Party team has proposed and insists on banning the export of wood. And this rule needs to be adopted in Parliament to make the moratorium even more effective, and another 30 percent can be increased. That is why we support this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u139	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement, Shahov of the will of the people. And let's go to the vote. I'm asking all the factions to invite deputies into the hall in a minute, to vote. Chess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, Sergey Shahov's political power is "Our End." This bill is the most important thing for our nation today. If we used to buy milk in the yard, today water, we'll soon buy air in the bags, you know. Today, all the forests were cut out. When I'm leaving Luhansk County, they're taking the greens all the way, they're taking them. When I come to the station Lugansk district, three years can't take 20 acres of dry forest, can't distribute wood to people, just like that. The crocodile ate all the trees and switched to the green forest. It's an ecological catastrophe in our country. And secondly, we need to pay immediate attention today to all the thieves in general, the loggers who were cutting up the forest where the war is supposed to be going today, with explosions and explosions. Thank you. The political power of the End. We will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u141	So let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking all the national MPs, I'm stressing once again, all the national MPs to move into the hall. Colleagues from the beds, now we're going to vote, I'm asking everyone to prepare for the vote, please everyone to take the job. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the conservation of Ukrainian forests (10201-1) with the proposal of a committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support. We vote, colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. Colleagues, vote, take your places. [[13:00:43]] For the 220. A few people didn't make it. Now I'm going to put it back, I see the national MPs are here. Once again, the return is the rule, but don't leave the hall. The entire unit has entered the National Deputies, take up your jobs. Guys, guys, signature collectors, Valera, come on. Guys, Mustafa, Valera, back up, vote. Come back, Eurooptimists, at least come back. Valera, the signatures aren't working out. Vote, it'll be easier to collect. Mustafa won't sign. Sit down! Don't overwhelm Mustafa. So, colleagues, first, return, then vote. I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 10201-1. I ask everyone to vote carefully for the return. Please vote and please support the return. Voting, supporting. Vote! Every voice. [[13:02:07]] For 237 And now the bill of Law 10201 is based and in general on the committee's proposal. Please vote, please support. Keep your distance. Vote! Vote! We're backing it up. We support you, colleagues. Every voice. [[13:02:33]] For 241 The law is passed, colleagues. And now, attention! Don't go, colleagues. Now there are two impeccable government laws. Deputy Minister of Finance Verlanov Sergey Alexiyovich. But in order not to put them at risk, I'm going to make a signal vote, colleagues. Please, the first is the draft Law on common transit (9532). Colleagues, back up, this is a huge sum for the Ukrainian State from international institutions. I ask you to vote, the 8532 signal vote on the common transit regime. Signal! Vote, support, colleagues. Please be supportive. Signal vote, vote. Support me, colleagues. We'll support the group. [[13:03:27]] For a hundred and How does he feel? Let's go in, let's go in. I'm proposing to consider 9532 as a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. For short, please support, colleagues. And please, colleagues, gather all the national deputies so that we can gather the required number of votes by the end of the discussion. [[13:03:54]] For 172 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Verlanov Sergey Alexiyovich, please. And, colleagues, in 10 minutes please maximize the mobilization of all national deputies in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u142	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The draft Law (9532) on the common transit regime has been developed to implement the Association Agreement with the European Union and is the subject of our commitments under the EU Macro-Findo Assistance Programme. The draft introduces the provisions of the Convention on common transit procedure in the Ukrainian legislation. The procedure for joining this convention is not standard: it is necessary to start by introducing convention rules and an appropriate IT product within the territory of Ukraine, but such rules must be introduced by law. Today, the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure is the 35 countries in the European region that have introduced the single rules for the transit of goods using a common IT product. Business will be able to use a single customs declaration to move goods from the country of departure to the country of destination through all the boundaries of the convention’s contractual sides without delay. The state receives, and this is very important, real-time exchange of customs information with 35 countries in the European region and will increase the efficiency of the risk analysis system. The bill provides for the introduction of a European practice of transparent and reliable procedures that will ensure that all Ukrainian participants in the supply chain and the financial sector will win, and an updated customs service will be able to implement reliable control processes for the movement of goods. To sum up the above, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u143	Thank you. Go back to your place of work. And the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Mrs. Please, Nina Petrovna, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, before we considered this bill on the committee, we had several working groups, and we were very familiar with the procedures that are being proposed to us. Therefore, on February 28th, at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Law on Common Transit Procedure, prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers for the implementation of Ukrainian legislation and provisions of the Convention on the Common Transit Procedure of May 20, 1987 and the Convention on the Simplification of Formalities in Trade in Goods of May 20, 1987, in accordance with Ukraine's obligations under the Association Agreement, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. The committee's analysis found that the text of the bill was generally consistent with the provisions of Appendix 1 of the common transit procedure to the Joint Transit Procedure Convention of 20 May 1987. The director of the Directorate-General for Taxation and the Customs Union of the European Commission gave a favorable assessment of the bill, stating that its text was clear, exhaustive and contained all the necessary positions. We spoke in great detail yesterday before we left for the hall today. We can support this bill in the first reading, which was mentioned in the committee at its meeting. So the committee is asking for support on the basis of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up to discuss the bill. Please, two for, two for, no, from groups, factions. Please welcome national deputy Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u146	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Our team supports this important bill because it is an antismuggling bill and must be adopted. Because of the absence of this single transit accounting system, the only information and technology system, what we see on customs today is happening. From Ukraine, even in spite of a moratorium on the export of roundwood, wood is exported from the forest. I mean, they're taking some kind of wood out of Ukraine, and we're seeing a Ukrainian forest round the clock in Europe. And this disgraceful affair, and the machination is extremely large, is hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian forests, which are exported abroad in violation of the law under the form of wood. So after the adoption of this law, it will be technologically impossible. Moreover, smuggling must become one of the main tasks of state economic policy, because smuggling is the stolen jobs of Ukrainians, smuggling is the destroyed Ukrainian productions that cannot compete with foreign producers who import goods to Ukraine without paying proper taxes and duties. Smuggling is the stolen funds from Ukrainian medicine, from Ukrainian education, from the pockets of every Ukrainian. So we need to do everything we can to stop these filthy smuggling channels, and not only to increase the liability for smuggling, including the roundwood forest, as we have done with you, but we need to make it impossible for the technology of these abuses. That's why Oleg Laska's Radical Party supports this bill, and we urge Parliament to make a positive decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u147	Thank you very much. And, please, I would like to invite National Deputy Feldman of the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u148	Pisarenko? Oh, okay. Then we move on for the time being. The next speech is the National MP Ivan Sporish, who presents the position of "Peter Prashenko's Block". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u149	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Please pass the word to Nina Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u150	Mrs. Southan's microphone, turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I really want to confirm that the system will allow the state to give new instruments to the state for control, for the calculation of all external economic activities. And now the main practical requirement of the European side to Ukraine is the successful testing of the national NCTS system for one year. We have, we have to protest and show that we are able to use this system and to use all the requirements of the European Union and those countries that have joined this convention. In fact, the difficulty is in implementing even the bill, because the Customs Code is still in effect and we are not amending the Customs Code. But I think if we start this work today, we can also prepare the necessary changes to the Customs Code, which many institutions are talking about. There are letters on the committee and from the National Bank, and we need to consider the comments of the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and everything that's worked on in the committee, in the working groups in the comparative table. And we're going to be able to come up with an option that will really help Ukraine join this system and be part of a transparent system. And by the way, there are benefits for taxpayers, for external economic operators in applying this system of things. And they're going to be sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u152	Thank you for the faction's position. Please welcome Valérie Pisarenko from Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u153	Thank you, thank you. It is a good thing that we came to the solution of the current issues and rejected the politicians who prevented us from working during the election campaign. We will support all the ideas yet to be adopted by this Parliament that would improve the situation in the country today. At the same time, I want to thank my colleagues who refused to register an anti-constitutional bill on the status of the President yesterday. I believe that today Parliament is still able to work without the election campaign. And I also want to say that the signed letters are in the registrar of the rebirth faction. Please invite them to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Ostrikak. It represents the position of the group, the Self-Help faction. And Shahov then, I take it, Sergey will come out of the group. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u155	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to point out that the Convention on a Common Transit Regime was adopted in the European Union back in 1987 and its implementation into Ukrainian legislation will mean that an entrepreneur will be able to use one customs declaration, the only administrative document when moving cargo from any point of Europe to Ukraine and back, crossing any number of borders within this common zone. Today it is not just the countries of the European Union, it is also the countries of the EATT, which are 35 countries operating in a common transit regime. The common transit system with the EU is primarily the implementation of special customs software, which will allow for simultaneous work with European customs and EUET participating countries. This is very important because this is our customs car and this is the first step towards joining Ukraine in a common customs space with the European Union. Colleagues, I ask you very much for your support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u156	So, colleagues, pay attention. We're about to make a closing statement. After this talk, a minute later, we move on to making a decision. Look who's not around. Why don't you come to the hall? In a minute, we're going to vote. Please, Shahov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u157	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, why do we always hear "Contraband, smuggling, smuggling"? We're going to Europe, so we have to live in Europe to get there. First of all, let's start with ourselves. If we're talking about a round that's been taken out, one was punished, not one put in jail? What about a gangster, an official, or someone else? For five years, they say on TV, "War, war, war," -- no one's ever been planted. This is a particularly important bill. We support him. But you have to pay attention to all the authorities, especially the customs, especially where the smuggling takes place. When I come to the station Lugansk district, the smuggling goes at a crazy pace. How many applications can you make? Hence, all the power structures today should be involved, not in the election, but in the hunting of thieves, thieves, liars, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u158	Thank you. So, colleagues, the discussion is over. We're moving on to making a decision. Not everyone's in the hall yet. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. As the national MPs come in, I want to read out a statement from the national deputy of Bielecki that, during the vote on April 25, 19th, he voted in favour of the draft Ukrainian Language Act as a state (5670-d) but his card didn't work. So we already have 280 votes. And I publicly announce from the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Bielecki voted in favour. Now we're going to the vote. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare everyone to make a decision. An extremely important bill for the government, for the state. And I'm asking you to take your jobs, get out of bed, please. Everybody's in place, right? Vote. I am voting on the draft Joint Transit Act (No. 9532) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. We support the Ukrainian economy, we vote in favour. We support you, colleagues. Vote. I just read it, Andrew. We vote yes. Everybody's in place, right? We vote yes. We're backing it up. Vote. [[13:17:44]] For 217 We didn't make the vote. I saw it. I'll be back in a minute. Please invite MPs. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. So, colleagues, first vote -- return, then -- on the basis. Please come into the hall. We wait all the time. Well, that's a shame. Well, that's a shame. So, colleagues, the first vote is the return. We're getting ready. Everyone in the workplace. You see, every voice has a weight. First vote. Please support the proposal to return to the bill on common transit regime 9532. Gennady, Jaroslav! Please vote, please support. Vote. And I, Hennadia, we vote, we vote. Please be supportive. Every vote we make is a very careful vote. Support, support. We support you, colleagues. [[13:19:14]] For 237 We're back. And now I'm voting on the bill on common transit regime 9532 as a basis, right? On the ground, please vote. Please be supportive. Just on the ground. We'll support it, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:19:45]] For 234 Decision taken. Colleagues, take your seats. Next. The signal vote on the next law, it's a signal. Next draft of the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, 9417. I'm betting on a rating vote. We're not in it yet, we're only voting. Please vote, please support. Vote. The rating vote. Vote. [[13:20:23]] For 181 We're not going in. Colleagues, we're not going in. The committee recalls that there is no support in the hall. And, colleagues, this allows us to move on to the next chapter of our agenda, as we agreed. This is a reform of Parliament. Since other bills are being drafted, we now have the opportunity to go to the draft Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, colleagues. Can we move in? About the temporary commission of inquiry. Because I would like to point out that two laws on reforming parliament are the first ones. Let's figure it out, colleagues. We have 40 minutes. What law do we begin with? [[B in m in s a l in]] We're starting with the TSC, aren't we? Okay. If there is the general will of the hall, we begin with the first law. Whether the reporters are ready, or if everyone's ready for the law.? Now, there is no Cosmiakin. I ask that the chairman of the Rules Committee advise us. Mr. Paul, Pinzenik Paul, how do you advise us to start with the TSC? Let's start with the TSC. Okay, here we go. I am considering the draft Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (1098). I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Contact him. [[13:22:08]] For-164 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Mr. Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, as early as 2015, our committee had considered the draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which had been introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Kožemjakin, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna, Barezyuk, and others. The registration number of this bill. Light Oleg Valeriovich and others. Registration number 1098 of February 9, 2015 (worked). The bill has been introduced with the aim of regulating the legal status and order of the temporary commission of inquiry and the temporary special commissions. In fact, this bill repeats the basics of another Bill No. 1098 of November 24, 14, which was repealed. However, there are differences: there is no section on the features of the activities of the Special Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the removal of the President of Ukraine from the post in the order of impeachment. In accordance with article 83, part 5, of the Constitution, the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is determined by the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules. Part one of the first article 1 of the Rules establishes that the working order of the Supreme Council, its organs, is also established by the Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council. Colleagues, taking into account the tightness of the time for the report, a general conclusion. First. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The other one. In this way, if there is a political will, it is not that it is worked out to take into account the need to regulate the procedure for the creation of a temporary one. And the work of a special commission on impeachment, it can't be worked out that way. So either we take it that way and we work it out, or we give the commission when we take it in the first reading, to work with the committee, taking into account the need to complete it with other chapters. It is the political will of Parliament – either yes or yes. I'd like to make a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u160	Thank you. Please include: two in, two in. Please. From Self-Help to the word Sobolev is invited. Please, Yegor. Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u161	We think it's a very important tool for parliamentary control. Parliamentary control is control on behalf of society. What a person cannot do should be done by national deputies. And it's a law that needs to be passed long ago. Of course, we are willing to vote on the basis and continue to make it stronger.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u162	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u163	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The end of the age of greed, which he spoke about in the elections to the presidents of Zelenski, begins primarily with the responsibility of authority. 73 percent of Ukrainians said their word, they want the President, the Parliament, the judges and everyone else to be equal before the law and accountable to the citizens. The Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions of the Supreme Council are instruments of parliamentary control. Our team, along with other faction leaders, registered this bill in 2014. Because of the opposition of the former authorities, this law has not yet been passed, because any authority fears, first and foremost, responsibility. And irresponsibility carries the greed, corruption, and poverty of Ukrainian citizens. For it is by entering into the pocket of the Ukrainians that those in authority are being enriched. We propose to Parliament that we use a unique historical opportunity to finally establish a real nation in Ukraine. The Law on Temporary Investigative Commissions as an Instrument for Parliamentary Control; the Law on the Procedure for Impeachment of the President of Ukraine as a Damocle Sword of Responsibility for Any Person Who Covers the Presidential Office, Whatever Her Name; the Reduction of the Number of Deputies of the Supreme Council to 250; the Cancellation of the Inviolability of the President, Deputies and Judges; the Change of the Electoral System from the Sales Corruption Majority to the Proportional Open Party Lists is the set of tools that will make the power, the President, the Parliament, the judges accountable and accountable Ukrainian citizens. We vote for openness.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u164	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich. Please. I'll give it to the Opposition Block. Then there'll be Fatherland, then there'll be the Opposition Block, and then we'll go to the vote. And "the will of the people," okay. We're the only ones with limited time, colleagues. I'll give it to you in a minute, with your permission. Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Of course, every parliament is trying to adopt this law, unfortunately, at the end of its cabinet. This law is needed primarily by the people's deputies and parliament in order to perform the most important – its control function. If this Parliament had passed this law in 2014, I would have convinced that there would not have been most of the problems and crimes that we've seen and that unfortunately we've seen without a chance of anyone answering for what happened. If today's Parliament gives the opportunity for the next Parliament, perhaps even this Parliament, to work on crimes and to work on those situations that were in the Croatprom, on other issues, customs, tax, that's all they've put down on the brakes, if Parliament can work and control, it's one of the most important laws we need to adopt. So I'm asking you very much, don't avoid voting, let me do parliamentary control for everything that I hope will be considered soon, and the era that my colleagues talked about, and the era, including impunity, injustice and lawlessness, will actually go back to history. So all citizens, I think, will tell you a lot of thanks if Parliament is to provide a really fair consideration of those resonance cases that unfortunately have been buried and buried in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u166	Thank you. From "The Fatherland" to the word is John Krulko, then Dludenkov and Shahov per minute. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u167	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, today under consideration in the Supreme Council, there are indeed bills that have strategic implications for the development of Ukraine. Thank you very much to all those deputies who voted in favour of the extremely important Language Law today. This bill on interim commissions of inquiry is also one of the most important laws that establish the institutional capacity of the Supreme Council, strengthen parliamentaryism, strengthen the parliamentary-presidential republic. And I want to remind you that in 2014, right after the election of the Supreme Council of the current convening, it was from the initiative of the Fatherland faction that a bill on the Temporary Investigation Commissions was registered. It was signed and supported by almost all the heads of factions in this Parliament. That's why this bill today is a merger of the Hall, it's an increase in the possibilities of the Supreme Council, it's a real interim commission of inquiry that will be able to investigate the most resonant matters, it's an opportunity for the Supreme Council, it's a special commission that can investigate crimes that are possible, including the President of Ukraine. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction insists that this bill be passed in the session room. We need to adopt it today on the basis, as soon as possible, to work on the Main Committee, to include the necessary chapters in this bill and at the next meeting of the Supreme Council, which will take place in the next plenary week, to adopt this bill as a whole. We have the strength of Parliament, we have to ensure the balance that will make Ukrainian democracy stronger. And we have to protect Ukraine today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u168	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u169	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! One of the important bills that is now being considered is to increase the so-called "institutional capacity" of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in addition to carrying out its legislative function, supervises, carries out a monitoring function. Is the adoption of this bill a complex decision to complete such a function as the exercise of control functions? No, of course not. Yes, the Supreme Council will be given certain mechanisms and means to investigate the most socially resonant cases, but one of the necessary bills that would really strengthen the institutional capacity and the controlled functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is, of course, the adoption of the opposition bill. Opposition factions that might be possible. have been able to take those key positions in the oversight committees, in the institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u170	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u171	In public institutions, in particular the Court of Auditors, that would really give them real leverage, control over the coalition's activities. Because the issue of control is not only a control issue within this institution, but a control issue is very relevant within the Supreme Council of Ukraine to avoid abuse. And this bill we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u172	Thank you. And, colleagues, the closing statement is Shahov. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Ever since Front, it's gonna be fine. It'll be a minute from Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u173	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill. When I joined the interim commission of inquiry into Catherine Hanszük, Sergey Samarski, all activists, I saw that the interim commission of inquiry is practically nothing today. This bill has to be done today in order to track down 27 years of privatization, whether it has been modernized today, the pipelines to which gas belongs today, why oligarchs today are pressing on the population and robbing the population every day, so that we can influence, in fact, as the national deputies elected by the people. That's why this bill is important, and we will support it. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u174	Thank you. And now, from the Front, Yemen is a minute. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Everyone, please step into the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u175	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, we are living in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, and in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, Parliament as the only legislative body entrusted and full, should at least be given a full control function. This idea, this rule of parliament, the legislative authority to control the executive power and the processes of the state's vitality, is inherent in the normal parliamentary-presidential republic. And that's why the Yanukovich regime has adopted this rule in order to deprive Parliament of its powers. This position on the Law on Temporary and Special Commissions of Inquiry was in the promises of the MPs. It is recorded in the Coalition Agreement. Promises need to be fulfilled, better late than never. So today it is time to pass the law on temporary special and investigative commissions. The People's Front faction supports the bill and will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u176	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I would like to point out that after the vote on the basis of the vote, I will put the proposal to the vote to consider a reduced procedure for the second reading. It's a deal, isn't it? After that, keep your distance. First vote. I put to the vote the draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (1098) on the basis of the Committee's permission to include additional chapters for the second reading, with the commission of a committee. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:37:16]] For 238. Decision taken. Now for a simplified procedure of consideration for second reading. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've already told the committee to let it go, I've already said that. Please vote, please support. For short to second reading. Vote. [[13:37:42]] For 209 I'll do it again, colleagues. Suggestion: For a brief consideration of the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Even though we have two weeks, we're still on track. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, yes, of course. People insist, I bet. [[13:38:07]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now I have a big request for you. Now I'm going to put in two votes: Parliament reform, colleagues. This is the number of committees, 20 committees, and the D’Ondt method. President Pat Cox is present today at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've done a lot of work, colleagues. I'm asking you all to support me, colleagues. I ask everyone to be wise, these are important laws. We're going to put 20 committees without counting committees, without relationship with the government, just 20 committees. So I'm betting on the first draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (6256). The rating vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. The rating vote. Keep it up, fellows. Just a list, no names. That's what we agreed. That's what we said. [[13:39:07]] For-147 The factions. The factions. "Block of Petra Dustenka" 49. I had every reason to think it would be 100. I had reason to believe that! The People's Front is 47. I hope there's more. Opposition Block - 0, Self-Help - 14, Radical Party - 16, Fatherland - 3, Will of the People - 3. We were on "Mone Dialogues" together. The Rebirth Party is two. We were on the "Mone Dialogues" talking and making a deal! I'm re-voting Bill 6256. Please vote. Please be supportive. The rating vote. Vote. [[13:40:03]] For-167 The factions. By factions. Peter Poshenko Block 63, People's Front 50, Self-Help 12, Radical Party 14, Parenthood 5, Will of the People 7, Rebirth Party 2. That's how we talk on air about reforming Parliament! Thank you for your cooperation, colleagues, and for your partnership. Thank you all. I'm not putting it to a vote because there's a risk of failing it, colleagues. Next. I am voting on a draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on the distribution of seats on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the principle of d’Ondt. This is a principle by which committees in the European Parliament and many European countries are distributed. So that we could never make the committees an object of trade again, so that they could distribute through a transparent European procedure, so that factions and groups without committees could never be left without committees, so that they could all be distributed. For justice, for opposition! I'm betting on a rating vote on Bill 7550. The rating vote. Please vote, please support, rating vote, rating. For 7550, the D’Onta method. [[13:41:25]] For-163 According to factions, Peter Dustenka's Block is 57. Thank you. People's Front - 53, Self-Help - 13, Radical Party - 14, Fatherland - 5, Will of the People - 6, Party of Rebirth - 1. Thank you all for your support. Today, everyone will meet with Pat Cox, colleagues, and factions’ heads in charge of each position. Thank you all for your support. We will continue to fight for parliamentary reform. Unfortunately, since there are no votes, I will not risk these important laws because they are international obligations. And we can go to the next block -- a block of fuel-energy issues. And the first of these issues is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to ensure competitive conditions for electricity generation from alternative sources of energy (8449-d). So this is the second reading, colleagues. I hope that the right-wing authors will not insist on looking at all the rights and we will be able to look at them quickly. And I invite you to report to Law 8449 on the head of the committee of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievich. I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall so we can see him by noon. Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to extend a warm welcome to the adoption of the Ukrainian Language Act, because it is a bill that allows us to have clean, strong spiritual energy in our country -- the energy of clean development. But at the same time, I hope that today, on Clean Thursday, we will have the opportunity to vote and support the development of the clean energy that is needed today for Ukrainian society. We hope that you can see the world’s struggle for a clean environment, for the clean future of our children. And I have to say that Ukrainian energy in renewable energy is developing at a very fast pace. But at the same time, it needs a very serious correction and a bill that we are now discussing with you in the second reading, aimed primarily at reducing from the green tariff model that we are reducing to the auction model and thus reducing the costs and costs of our consumers. The committee discussed in detail all the amendments made by the legislators. I want to report that there were 257 of them, 118 included, 139 rejected. I would like to thank you very much because 22 national deputies took part and made their amendments. In addition, I would like to inform you that the committee, at its meeting, has considered all the amendments in detail, has accepted part of them, has not accepted part of them, and has recommended to the Supreme Council, on second reading and in general, that the proposed bill be supported. Therefore, Mr. Golovo, I ask that the Chief Legal Authority, together with the Committee Secretariat, be entrusted before signing on to the Head of the Supreme Council for technical and legal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u178	Thank you. Colleagues, we're moving on to the amendments. What's that? 1 amendment, Mrs. Babak needs confirmation. Turn on Mrs. Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u179	Dear friends, 1 law is proposed to alternative sources of energy to add fuel from household waste as renewable fuel. Dear friends, Ukraine will be the first in the world to call renewable energy the energy of garbage. The energy of natural sources of energy, not garbage, is renewable. Garbage. We need to warn him not to encourage someone who wants more to get a green tariff. Friends, there's no such thing in the world to use solid fuel from household waste as an alternative and demand a consumer at the highest green tariff to pay for it. In the world, consumers are encouraged to warn them about waste generation, to make demands on producers of products that go in such a way that they create waste disposals rather than stimulating final consumption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u180	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u181	Please don't take this amendment explicitly so that you don't look ridiculous in the eyes of the world and pay for the garbage as renewable energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u182	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u183	I'll allow myself to make a brief comment. It's not about the "green" tariff on the use of household waste. And I can only agree that the formula for renewable household waste or renewable fuel is not entirely correct, but that's how the Supreme Council will decide today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u184	Thank you. I'm asking you to put on confirmation one amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:47:22]] For-59 Let's move on. Colleagues, if I don't name someone, raise your hands, please. What? Please turn on Mrs. Babak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u185	Madam Chairman, I ask you to put on confirmation 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th revisions and ask the entire room not to vote for them, because they go logically from this 1 correction when we recognize alternative and renewable energy from the trash. Ladies and gentlemen, let's encourage the consumer to prevent waste production, to engage in a separate congregation, to demand from producers of goods or in packaging, or to produce tires, olives and so forth, to create requirements for them, not to stimulate combustion at the highest price the consumer will pay for. You definitely can't let that happen. So I'm not asking you to support 2y, 3y, 4y and 5 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u186	On Mrs. Babak's request, I'll just be there. I'm sorry, yes, the head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u187	If possible, a brief comment. First of all, I would like to say that the more we talk about garbage for almost five years in this call to the Supreme Council, the more garbage remains in Ukraine, which no one can dispose of and no one knows what to do with it. Position number two, which is honest and objective. It's one of the key trends in the world. And the third. For the sake of justice, let him decide the hall. But I'm going to read 5 revisions. That "renewable fuel from household waste is an alternative source of energy, solid fuel, made from household waste, from which resource components (paper, metal, glass, plastic) are removed", attention, "that hazardous waste which is designed to produce heat and electricity and meets the requirements of national standards for renewable energy."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u188	30 seconds to complete, please. We're done. Colleagues, these are the amendments that Mrs. Babak now requires for confirmation, colleagues of Biloczerkovec, Kiral and Chizmar. The chimpanzee requires words as the author of the amendments. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, we need to be clear. And what Olena Babak says is not about green tariff. We're not talking about these companies getting a green tariff. They're getting a power distribution quota, and so they're taking in the total auction that we're putting in. In addition, it should be noted that today's bill foresees the appropriateness of such wastes, which are so-called SRFs, according to European Union standards, they comply with EU directives 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament on industrial discards. If we don't accept this amendment, we won't be able to initiate the construction of garbage treatment plants, it gives us a chance to clean up the environment today. And what Babak says has nothing to do with what's on the street. There's a pile of garbage on the street, and there's no way it can be solved. This is going to be the only step. The first step is to stimulate the construction of garbage processing plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u190	Thank you, colleagues. At the request of Mrs. Babak, I now vote to confirm the amendment. I'll remind you, the committee's asking for their support. I'd like to make up my mind. Amendment 2. For confirmation. [[13:51:19]] For-67 Amendment 3. Please confirm. The committee's asking for support. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:51:40]] For-61 Amendment 4. I'd like to make a statement. The committee's asking for support. [[13:51:58]] Z-71 Amendment 5. The committee's asking for support. Now, I've already announced. Please be supportive. [[13:52:16]] Z-62 Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u191	Colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to pay attention. We have a very simple situation: either we have time to consider it before lunch or we can move it after lunch. So I'm talking to the right-wing authors: if you're supporting the law, then don't stand up; if you want to speak, take your briefing. We'll be able to make it through in no time. I'll just ask those who insist. And I'll be able to continue until 14:15. And we can go after lunch to other laws. So if someone supports you, do not insist. Let's follow this system. Who insists that we be oriented so that we can see? To give us a sense of the direction, Mrs. Vojciekhovska, how many lines, show us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u192	Vojecki, first. And second of all, not six. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten at least, which I urge you to consider separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u193	And you're going to insist on each one of them after the performance?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u194	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u195	I'm so sorry your last name got confused. Apologize to my apologies. It's just an emotion. Lechenko, there's gonna be six rights, right? How many bars? Two. How much? One. Yes. So, colleagues, let's actually watch. Two, right? We colleagues, we're honest with each other, 12 straights, 14, 17 -- at this rate we can't take it until lunch. If it's 17 rights, I see Katzer-Buchkowska two axles. I've seen it. How many bars? Let's see how many fingers. Three adjustments. I mean, colleagues, if we have more than twenty rights, we just can't physically. Then, colleagues, I can't take away any national law enforcement officer, unfortunately, even though I know how many factions approached me. Then we'll go on straight. After lunch, we'll continue with the paperwork, and we'll be out in about 4:30. I guess so, colleagues. Is that right? Otherwise we just can't get out. Do I get it right? Well, then, colleagues, I'm going to continue with the readjustments, I'll call them rejected, yes. Where did we end up? Would you agree if I were to give it to the author, and she would call all her own amendments? All right? All of it. All right. Amendment 11. Is he insisting? Katzer-Buchowska? Don't insist. Number 13, Levechenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u196	This bill provides a completely absurd proposal for the introduction of the proposed changes only since 2020. Changes in terms. Today they are very right. But the fact that the proposal in this bill prolongs today's green tariffs until the 20th year. Today, the green tariffs on solar energy in Ukraine are 0.15 euros per kilowatt and are the highest in the world. Yes, compared to Germany, the "sun" tariff in Ukraine is three times the cost, and the country's energy tariffs are 0.10 euros per kilowatt at twice the price of German. At the same time, all the green tariffs in Ukraine are fixed in the euro. In Ukraine, in general, green power stations, wind, solar power, and so on, produce up to 2 percent of the electricity consumed in Ukraine. However, it costs 8 percent of all money in the market or about 10 billion dollars a year. In addition, the EBRD had previously predicted that the rapid launch of the auction mechanism could allow these tariffs to be lowered. It's worth noting why this is happening in this law, actually. I'm asking you to give me 30 seconds to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u197	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u198	I would like to point out why this law proposes such a story, why they're delaying auctions by 2020. And because the biggest power in the production of green energy was to introduce the company Rinat Leonidovich Ahmtova Dtek next year. It plans to increase the production of green energy by 740 megawatts in 2019. That's twice as much as the necessary high-power consumption of the entire Hersonian region. So these Ahmutov powers are going to get today's high tariffs. So there's essentially a corruption component here, just to give Rinato Leonidovich Ahmet a gift.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u199	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u200	Dear friends, once again, I would like to emphasize that the key idea and philosophy of this bill is to move from the green tariff model that has just been criticized to the auction model. I want to say again that since January 1, 2020, everyone is going to auction. Those who are more than 1 megawatt in the sun and those who, in the form of second reading, are 3 megawatts, the wind, they go to auction. Green tariffs are reduced by 25 percent, plus 2.5 percent every year over the coming years. So the law solves exactly the problem you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u201	Thank you. I'm betting on vote 13, she's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:57:56]] For-60 Thank you. The decision is not taken. 14th. Don't insist. 15th, Wojcietsky. Don't insist. 16th. Don't insist. 17th. Don't insist. 18th. 19th. 21st. 23rd. 25th. 24th. Excuse me, eyeglasses. Scissor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I'm talking about 23 revisions right now, where we're talking about small-power consumers from 50 megawatts to 150 megawatts. What's the matter? What we accepted in the first reading was between 50 and 500 kilowatts. But something on the presentation committee said that we voted in favour of the first reading, but then it was written that the limit was not up to 500 kilowatts, but up to 150 kilowatts, and the MPs voted by mistake. So I think we need to put this right here for confirmation and leave for small consumers the ability to build stations up to 500 kilowatts. So today we're allowing Ahmet to build 200 to 700 megawatts, and we're going to limit to simple consumers the different possibilities of building only on roofs, then limiting the number of kilowatts. So I would like to leave for small consumers the opportunity to produce electricity at the same level as large producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u203	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 23, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[13:59:44]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. 25th. Don't insist. 24th. Who? Fedoruk. 24th, Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to put 24 amendments on confirmation, because it creates unequal conditions for small consumers and prohibits putting these little solar panels on their own dotted areas. So I'm asking you to put this on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u205	Mr. Alexander, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u206	What I'm saying is that in the area of land, this is not relevant because this is between 50 and 150 kilowatts -- it's called a small generation, it's a farm, it's a small consumer, it's a small enterprise that can use green energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u207	Are you insisting, Mr. Mikolo? I'm betting on confirmation of 24 revisions. The committee supported her and asked everyone to vote. Please vote. 24th. [[2:01:02]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'm going on for 15 minutes. I remind you, we won't be voting until noon, but if we don't waste a lot of time after lunch, we'll be at least 15 minutes left. 25th. Don't insist. 30th. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 37th. 28th. Fedoruk. 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u208	28th, a similar argument is to allow a small capacity not only to be placed on roofs, facades, and adjacent areas. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u209	Would you comment, Mr. Alexander, or would you like to put it right away? I bet. Just remember. 28th. I'm betting on confirmation of the 28th amendment. The committee supported her and asked everyone to support her. 28th row. Please vote, turn on the voting system. [[14:02:29]] For-81 The decision is not taken. 37th. Don't insist. 38th. Don't insist. I'm just going to read the rejected revisions. 44th. Don't insist. 45th. [[B in m in s a l in]] Raise your hand, that's all! Don't be so nervous! 43rd, please, Wojcietsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u210	We'll save time, Mr. Head. I'm going to ask you to actually put both 36 y's and 43 validations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u211	Will you comment, Mr. Alexander?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u212	No, it's not. Let's put it to a vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u213	36 I'm betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u214	36 offset counted partially.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u215	36 offset counted partially. To confirm, please vote, her committee. Who is responsible for taking full account? [[14:03:31]] For-38 The decision is not taken. And 43rd, right? I'll bet 43 on confirmation. Please, Martovicki, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u216	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill proposes a sharp reduction of 10 percent for the major VES projects put into operation by 2020 and further downsizing each year. The full implementation cycle of the project by major international investors, including design, financing, construction, and construction, ranges from 3 to 5 years, with the project's economy and cost initially calculated. I mean, it's all about me, and it's all about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, you know, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, it's about me, and it's about me, it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about me, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, and it's about, I ask you to support and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u217	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 43. The committee supports it and urges everyone to support it. Vote. [[14:05:02]] For-64 The decision is not taken. 44th. Don't insist. 45th. Don't insist. 46th. 47th. 54th. 50th. Please, Fishbuck, 50th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u218	Dear Mr. Head, I want our colleagues to pay attention to the 50 adjustments I have proposed to change the "green" rate from 2020 to 2023 on the use of biomass as a biofuel from the coefficient. by the coefficient 2.5. It's actually the coefficient that's going to be the basis for investors to enter, to invest in building power plants on biomass, biofuels in Ukraine. But at the same time, I'd like the committee to go back to looking at the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th rights, as this is essentially environmental security, and it's from the construction of factories that will burn solid household waste after they're sorted, just on the basis of the green tariff, that the investor will essentially be able to get the investment invested back. That's why I think our Parliament will vote, including amendments from 1st to 5th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u219	Thank you. Mr. Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u220	The committee did not support this amendment. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u221	So it's me. You don't insist, do you? Okay. 59th. Don't insist. 61st. 62nd. 63rd. 66th. Yes. Yes, Rybchin, 66th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u222	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. My revision is about supporting a small generation. It refers to support in the context that the "green" tariff for a small generation will only apply until 2030. If we adopt this law, auctions will be issued to large companies for 20 years. Green tariff for small consumers is only until the end of 2030. I think there's some injustice here, so this amendment is aimed at continuing the green tariff, at least until January 1, 2035, just in part of the new projects. It's not a continuation of those that were built in 2010, in 2011. Those who will build new ones will be given the opportunity to take advantage of the green tariff. Once again, exclusively green tariff exclusively for new ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u223	Thank you. Mr. Dombrowski asked me to set up a plate. I'm asking you to put a plate on the board. And I'd like to answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u224	I want to inform my colleague that the philosophy of shaping this law is that we're not raising any green tariff in any kind of generation, but we're just making the tariff smaller, and we're not continuing any green tariff for more than 30 years. Thus, such a decision was taken, and the committee did not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u225	Thank you. You insist, don't you? I'm betting on a vote of 66 Robbins. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[14:08:44]] For-37 The decision is not taken. 67th. Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u226	A respected chairman of the committee is injustice. Big projects will be auctioned and compensated for their investments for 20 years. Consumers will pay for this. Big projects. Both foreign companies and domestic companies will be compensated for the contracts that are now being concluded for 20 years. Small consumers, people -- pensioners who put something in there, entrepreneurs, farmers -- will only get compensation by 2030. If we find you with either the Ministry, or with another Parliament, I don't know how we're going to support a small generation beyond 2030, I'm willing to look at it. However, the question is not in the "green tariff" model. Young people’s questions should not be discriminated against in large ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u227	Please, Mr. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u228	I can tell. I can tell you that there are no perfect laws. With some logic, I can agree with Mr. Rybchin, but I propose today to vote on the second reading of this bill, to which we have passed a year and a year and a year and a half, and then in the committee, to return to the emphasis and correction of the points that you call "injustice" in relation to the small generation. But that doesn't mean that we can continue it. I think we can find more effective tools. So let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u229	I'll bet you vote 67. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[14:10:45]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Next is 68, 70, 71, 73. 74, Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u230	My revision relates to the support of the country's green-generated hardware manufacturers. These are companies that produce windmill equipment, companies that produce solar stations, companies that produce intermediate products like cables and others that get a green tariff allowance for the level of use of Ukrainian equipment. Now there's a graduation: if you're 30, not less than 30, but not more than 50, people get 5 percent of the allowance, and if you're over 50, people get 10 percent of the allowance. My suggestion to make an intermediate bet: if you're 40, from 40 to 50 percent localization, you get 7. So it's not an increase in the level of localization that I can't support, and that's the refinement and help of our manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u231	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote of 74. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[14:12:20]] For-19 The decision is not taken. 75, 77. 80. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u232	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. My amendment refers once again to the question that we, the authors and the majority who voted in the first reading, are proposing to give the oligarch Ahmet the colossal costs of the state budget. Now I'm reacting to what the reporter said, responding to my first amendment. Well, and I'm just paying attention to all of our listeners and people's conscious deputies, and our constituents who are now in charge of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but the point is that this is what you've been introducing since January 1, 20, but if the station was already in operation in the 19th year, it will be operating in the old rules, not through auctions will receive the tariff. Why don't you say that from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? And why don't you say that Rinat Leonidovich Ahemtov is about to put a bunch of these stations into operation in the 19th year? That's why. And that's what you're doing right now. You can explain why you do not want to enter the correct innovations already. So, for example, from July 1st, why don't you want to enter them? That would be right. And you don't answer these questions. So absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u233	Please, Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u234	My comment is very simple. Today, the green energy in Ukraine, which needs to grow at a very fast pace, is being invested by not only one Mr. Ahmedov, they invest in tens, tens and hundreds of companies. And changing the rules for investors inside and outside for a week or two months ahead, that doesn't go into any of them. We cannot compare with any European norm. So there must be rules to play. We have to make rules for investors, not for specific individuals and not for specific players in this market.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u235	Thank you. I'll bet you 80 votes. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. And now we're going to figure out which revision we're going to start with after lunch. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to see now. [[14:14:35]] For 20
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-25-m0.u236	The decision is not taken. Now we're going to define what we're going to continue with. 81st. 82nd, Levenchenko. Yeah? Out of 92? Okay. Then we'll start work after lunch with 92 revisions. I'm asking you to be seated. I also ask the committee head to be in the workplace at 4:00. I want to inform you, colleagues, that we have made eight decisions by noon, except for the inclusion of the day session: four laws in general, one regulation in general, four on the basis and one of them is the historic Language Act. The Supreme Council is working systematically, steadily. The Stability Supreme Council is a stable Ukraine. Comrades, welcome. But I have to announce that the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I've read the statements. I read the application a long time ago. And at 4:00 p.m., I invite everyone into the conference room to continue our work. We're going to look at the rights of 92 revisions. Thank you. At 16 o'clock, I'm waiting in the hall.
