ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u1	Good morning! Colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, are the colleagues ready to register? People's deputies are still good. So, if you'd like to conduct an enrollment, please register. [[10:03:28]] 353 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our fellow national deputies: Jegora Viktorovich Sobolev and Aleksandra Mikolaiovich Chernenka. Let's welcome our colleagues. Colleagues, we all remember this day well in 2014. Five years ago, on February 26, a mass rally of Ukrainians and Crimean Tatars took place in Simferopol to support Ukraine’s integrity. Our Ukrainians, the Crimean Tatars, gathered for the rally, brothers from all over Crimea. When Putin lied about Crimea wanting to join Russia, the Crimean Tatar nation, for which Crimea is the Fatherland, the home land, made a loud statement to the whole world that Crimea is Ukraine, and they will oppose the Russian occupation of the peninsula. This day has forever entered the history of Ukraine as the Day of Crimean Tatar Resistance to the Russian occupation that we celebrate at the state level. On this day, we respectfully and respectfully mention the brave sons of the Crimean Tatar people — the prisoners of Moscow. We will certainly release them from Moscow captivity along with all the Ukrainians — the captives of the Kremlin. Thank our Crimean Tatar brothers very much! Together we are strength. Together we will defeat the enemy and return Crimea. Crime is Ukraine. Let's thank and express our support to our brothers, the Crimean Tatars. [[Applause]] Colleagues, I want to remind you that today we're starting a day with a security and defense unit. But the key bill we have to start looking at this week is the Law on State Language, on Ukrainian Language. And this is the key bill that we have to start this week, but today we're starting with the security and defence cluster. And I would like to stress that among them are extremely important laws, particularly the draft Act on the Admission of Military Forces of Other States to Ukraine in 2019 for participation in multinational learning. I want to remind you that our soldiers are being trained together with our associates from Canada, the United States, other NATO countries. And over the past five years, I emphasize, there has never been such a time that the Supreme Council has failed to fulfil its responsibility and has not voted in favour of the continuation of the armed forces of other nations in Ukraine. And I am confident that today the Ukrainian Parliament will show once again its responsibility, the state's thinking that we will remember that the country is at war, and we must do our utmost to support our warriors, and we will jointly vote for the security and defence bloc. Now, according to the Rules, I announce 30 minutes for statements by authorized representatives of MPs and groups. And I'm asking you, colleagues, to record a performance from factions and groups. Please record. Timoshenko Ulya Volodymyrna is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u2	Dear friends! I want to go to the semi-empty room right now with things that are extraordinary. I also want to go to all the media, to the international representations that work in Ukraine, to the entire people of Ukraine. You know what happened yesterday was extraordinary. Investigative journalists who have watched for two years as the President and his surroundings trade in blood released yesterday extensive evidence proving that through the Lenin cousin of the current President, devices were being carried out to smuggle spare parts into Ukraine from the Russian Federation -- a country of aggressors, with sinks, with sinks, with money recovered, at prices of 2-4 times more expensive than they even purchased. And these corrupt spare parts from the aggressor country were provided for Ukrainian defence factories and were used to put them in our Ukrainian military technology, which undermined the country's defence capabilities, destroyed the sanctions applied against the Russian Federation, and the main thing is that the President of Ukraine was at the head of this whole pyramid. In addition, Mr. Gladkowski, who is in charge of Ucroborprom today, also his son, friends of his son, took part in these equipment, and all of this has been fully documented. There are documents that were presented by investigative journalists, and that's all. It says that the blood trade, the making of billions of dollars on the mountain of the Ukrainian people; it says that the President, if he says something about patriotism, is a fairy, and in fact he's destroying Ukraine. We believe that what has been done, and what has been published by investigative journalists, falls under article 111 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, is a national betrayal. A state betrayal deliberately committed by a Ukrainian citizen to the detriment of sovereignty, territorial integrity and integrity, defence, national economic security of Ukraine. In fact, it's the enemy's contribution, the destruction of the Ukrainian army, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u4	It's helping the occupying country take over our country, and it's totally a criminal case. We announce that, along with other factions that support us, we begin the President's impeachment procedure. And we turn to all, without exception, MPs who have the honor and conscience to put all those organized criminal groups in place. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u5	From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, Chubarov is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u6	Honorable colleagues, five years ago, on February 26, 2014, gathered thousands and thousands of people at these very moments for the appeals of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people in Simferopol in the area before the Supreme Council of Crimea. Thousands more people from all over the Crimea streamed into Simferopol, the Crimean Tatars, and along with their neighbors, the ethnic Ukrainians, people of other nationalities came out to defend Ukraine’s territorial integrity. Against them, in the form of the so-called National Crimea militia, the Kremlin led the military out of private military companies. Then, five years ago, the rallyers achieved their goal, they made it clear that Crimea was Ukraine, and they didn't give Moscow the opportunity to choose the glamorous picture they wanted, which would indicate that Crimea had voluntarily asked for Russia. It was thanks to the February 26, 2014, rallyers who broke Moscow’s plans that Putin was forced to bring Russian troops before the eyes of the world. To this day, occupation authorities continue to exert repression against pro - Ukrainian and Crimean activists. Today, 17 missing persons, 12 dead, 39 political prisoners, 10 of whom have been convicted. The aggressor country is cynically ignoring fundamental human rights and freedoms and international law. My dear colleagues, I understand that there are very different feelings in this room right now. But I would like to literally ask you all for a moment -- I do this very rarely -- I would like us to express our respect for the thousands and thousands of Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians who came out on February 26 to defend Ukraine. I want you to know that they are still fighting in Crimea today. I want you to know that this morning there were banners on Simferopol that said, "Russia is out, Crimea is our home." This is done by Ukrainian patriots, the Crimean Tatars, the ethnic Ukrainians. I want us in this room today to talk about how we're going to return the Crimea. I want us to understand that if we don't get mobile right now, if we don't get together in these presidential and then in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u8	They can repeat the fate of Crimea. I want to remind those who were sitting in this room, on February 26, we were there, on the square in Simferopol, and here we were doing quite different things. I only want one thing right now: I know we're going to continue the fight, I know we're going back to Crimea, whoever we want. Of the 44 candidates in the 14 candidates, there's not a word about Crimea. I'd like to ask if you'd like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u9	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u10	I'm done. To show respect for those who are now in Crimea and who are fighting and fighting, no matter what. I want us all to unite to restore Ukraine’s territorial integrity to the Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u11	Thank you. And glory to our brothers in Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians who are still fighting for the return of Crimea to Ukraine and for the Russian aggressor to leave occupied lands. Bondar is invited to the word from the Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u12	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Ukrainian Parliament has always played a very decisive role in preserving the stability and security of Ukraine, its future. Today, I think Parliament is facing a challenge again. The challenge: either we're saving the country, we're giving order, or this country is moving on to the scenario where it lived for 28 years: 28 years of robbery, 28 years of robbery. Today, we see an unprecedented history when a system of voice gatherings is unfolding all over Ukraine through so-called "state funds" set aside through several mechanisms. The first mechanism is subsidies that are being given and will be issued two months after what's called "monetization." We're told by the Minister of Social Policy that this is an experiment for two months, essentially pre-election, when instead of the subsidies that the oligarchs received in their pockets today, they're first handed over to people in their pockets directly, but that's essentially a bunch of votes, because from May 1, these subsidies stop, they raise their tariffs by 20 percent per gas, 30 percent per cent per electricity. It's a different scheme. The second scheme is when the so-called "additional pensions" are issued for two months. This is directly stated by Deputy Prime Minister Rosenko, who shows that every month in March and April he will be handing out 1 thousand 200 dollars to Ukrainian pensioners. It's a direct cluster, it's just physical abuse of retirees by whom. With their hands, they will continue to subscribe to the current authority for another five years to be able to carry out their policies, and in fact they will be given 30 copies each day for a further five years. In fact, we're talking about that from May 1st, as soon as this "gift attraction" ends, to anyone who has a tariff debt for today's more than 340 dollars, the subsidies are cancelled, and there will be no additional pensions. I'm sorry, but it's cynicism, it's bullying people. That is why we demand that the draft decree signed by seven faction leaders be put to the vote: the abolition of tariffs and the conduct of energy audits of tariffs in Ukraine. And the second. To call here the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Revou, Vice Prime Minister of Rosenk, to explain that this is a scheme with grants, two-month supplementary pensions before the elections, and how the situation on these issues will continue. We have, Parliament, to listen to people, we have to listen to ministers, and we have to show that there is power in Ukraine, Parliament understands that it works. If this cluster continues, it will be just an explosion: people will go out on the street, there will be opposition, and the elections will end with some other disturbances in Kiev. So let's stop. Parliament has to act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u13	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u14	Parliament must act decisively and stop this vacchanal. We set the order, we set it together, and we all consciously make decisions, we put a draft decision to the vote, and we finally hear what the government is doing, and where they're taking this money to give out two months before the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u15	Thank you. From the Radical Party to Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u16	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, I think the top of cynicism is to talk about security and defence issues in parliament today, when journalists publish information that the Supreme Commander and his pal are stealing billions of dollars from the army, smuggling Russian equipment, supplying to the army, and then our boys are paying for their lives for Prussianko's pocket-crowding. So our team is calling for a real break, to gather all the faction leaders to discuss the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council to publish the facts of the theft in the army. If it's true that journalists have published that President Poroshenko and his "loving friends" are being robbed of the army, it's a huge crime, it's a national betrayal, and that's why Dusty needs to be shot if that's true. Parliament cannot remain silent when documents and evidence are published that large-scale looting is taking place in the army. The same is true of the large-scale break-up at Naftogaza. Each Ukrainian pays from his own pocket for the fact that Poshenko, Kobolev and this company go into the pockets of every pensioner, every worker, every farmer, every Ukrainian citizen to pay their own space bonuses. We've registered a draft Supreme Council decree to get Naftogazu's head and his government to return to the state budget 1 billion 400 million dollars of the prize they have written down. The President is silent, the Prime Minister is silent, pretending that nothing is happening. It is immoral in a country where millions of people are poor, where more than 40 percent of citizens live on a minimum wage, pay off their space bonuses, and cover this robbery. We demand that Parliament immediately consider our decision and return to the state budget a bonus of 1 billion 400 million dollars that Naftogazu received. We demand that Parliament immediately take a decision to repeal the Government's Gas Prices Regulation and introduce a moratorium on tariff increases. People can't pay space tariffs, the authorities are robbing Naftogazi in the army, in defense, the pensioners are being robbed, and every Ukrainian has to pay for it. We demand action: stop the looting, investigate the President's crimes, return the stolen money to Naftogaz, cancel the government's decision to raise gas prices and impose a moratorium on tariff hikes to protect Ukrainian citizens. And the key is fair elections. The Minister of Internal Affairs, Habakkuk, claimed a mass bribery of voters organized by the President and his satraps led by Berezenek and Connonenko. We have registered a draft parliamentary decree to call on the Supreme Council of Violents for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u17	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u18	that the rapists should come to Parliament and inform them of the facts of the voter's bribery. The pollinator wants power at the expense of the voter's bribe. It's going to give him a hole in the bubble, not power. We won't let him fake the election. We demand that the head of Parliament be immediately summoned to the Supreme Council by all the leaders of the power structures and that we bring to the attention of the Ukrainians what they are doing to stop the counterfeiting of Dusty and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u19	Thank you. From the Opposition Block to the word Wilkul is invited. I want to report, the faction determines who will speak. I've explained this in detail. I have a letter from the leadership of a faction that recognizes who will speak, colleagues. I also know that the Radical Party has signed up for Linko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u20	Dear people of Ukraine, the country’s leadership is only interested in staying in power. The only thing that matters to the government is how, because of the dirty speculations about the copying of history, speculation on matters of faith, religion, and language, to consolidate some of the radical voters. This week, the main coalition will try to contradict Bill 5670. It is not at all about the protection of Ukrainian national language, which we all certainly respect. It's about banning the use of any other language in our multilingual, multicultural and multinational country. I am not saying that this is contrary to many articles of our Constitution, which has long been crushed by power. This is contrary to our obligations under the Treaty on European Integration. I'm not talking about the East anymore, but you've been talking about us with your language policy with many countries in the West. Hungary, Romania, Poland are also separatists? I want to read a poem that is now spreading on the Internet. "I write in Ukrainian, and I write in Russian too. I'm proud of my mother tongue, but I have Russian in my heart too. I lived in the Union for forty years, studied Russian at school. Taking many of the Russian lessons, I did not teach the Ukrainian language. I speak my own language, and in Russian I can say, And I'm not going to, believe me, I'm not going to "hothouse" and "catsapes." I don't care who you are, who you are, who you are from the east or who you are from the west. It's important that I understand what you're saying." And finally, I'd like to offer the speaker and the coalition a library of native literature here in Parliament. Taras Grigorovich Shevchenko, who you say is a prophet, Kobzar, is a poem in both Ukrainian and Russian. Tell me, where do 54 percent of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's legacy, written in Russian, go? Is he also "Sept"? Is he also a traitor? No, that's our story. No, it's our culture. And I suggest you think about it and move away from cave nationalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u22	I want to pass on to Andrija Volodymyrovich "Kobzara" Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u23	Thank you. Colleagues, since I have been approached, I would like to inform and remove many speculations that are being done around the Language Law. It's the Ukrainian Language Act. We have separate legislation on the languages of national minorities. This is a law on the support of Ukrainian language that has been destroyed for centuries by the Emancipation Orders, in the Soviet Union, when Ukrainian language was banned in schools throughout the country. And today it is our responsibility. I want to remind you, after the Constitutional Court's decision, we have just a legal vacuum, and this is our duty today to adopt a law that regulates the use of Ukrainian, which is written according to all the standards of our European partners. So you don't need speculation, it doesn't prohibit any language. Any language in Ukraine can function fully. It's about protecting the Ukrainian language that needs the most protection today. So let's take these myths off, and, I'm sure, in the course of our consideration, we'll be able to bring this to the public at large so that any propaganda that tries to discredit this law doesn't have any perspective. We read and read both Gogol, the great Ukrainian writer and Shevchenka, and we will read, love our literature, and defend Ukrainian language in the Ukrainian state. Now, from the will of the people, I invite you to the word of Labazuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the new plenary week is no less important than the previous week, when we have generally adopted amendments to the EU and NATO Constitution. We have a day-to-day second reading of the Ukrainian language bill as a national. And we're actually hearing a lot of speculation today. We have to show effective voting, but we also have no right to forget about the problems that people are in today's agenda, and to keep their hands on the pulse, to solve these urgent problems today. It's both utilities, and prices for medicine, and other extremely important topics that people today have more pain than anything else. Because politicians are strongly encouraged to be patriots, and today they lack money even for utilities and food. The government reports that in a year, the number of subsidies decreased by 6.9 million, to 4 households. But why do public debt for utilities continue to grow? What will the government do with this problem? The Supreme Council is to receive an answer today so that we can continue to work successfully and make changes. Remuneration of subsidies from March will introduce a simple compensation mechanism, but it will affect only a few people. So what do the rest of the people who don't get subsidized and who don't have the ability to pay these dragon tariffs today? Convinced, the government, together with Parliament, must seek ways and protect the ordinary, average citizen from these problems. Colleagues, the process of decentralization, when it began, had opponents of reform, and of course they were supporters. But this reform was irreversible for the country at this stage. Because the problems that were accumulated in places were not solved from the center. And it was the people on the scene who understood clearly for themselves, for themselves, and for what, and for how to make decisions. And what have we seen in the last five years? There is a positive effect. People who have taken responsibility on the grassroots by forming territorial communities, given authority and opportunities through decentralization, are now successfully implementing the problems that have accumulated for decades. And this is the construction of the pipelines, and the lighting of the street, the warming of schools, gardens, and so on. But we have a lot of work to do with you today on legislative changes to enable you to work fully on decentralization reform. So after having held a large number of meetings in the last two weeks in my area of 188 district, I heard that people see light at the end of the tunnel. We have left our attention today to work on all the bills that are not yet working as laws to complete the process of decentralization. And the main thing is to do everything possible to ensure that the next local elections in the 20th year take place after the completion of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u25	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u26	So it is our duty to promise communities in due course that we will hand over authority and that we will be able to develop the regions in places, and we will have to complete the procedure. So, Your Honor, everyone in this room knows that any reform is a compromise. And today it is important that Parliament, the Supreme Council, all at local level structures work together. So let's take the bulls by the horns and put into practice the dreams of the people we promised them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u27	Thank you. The Self-Help faction invites the head of the Oleg Berezuk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u28	Good afternoon! That's the moment when there's really no words. You listen to the Head of the Supreme Council, who says that today we're going to adopt the laws that are necessary for the army, and you understand that these are empty words. I want to appeal to someone, to ask for something, but you realize that these will be empty words, because the authorities have just rotted to the bottom. Whom should I appeal to? To the HQ that covers up the schematics? Whom should I appeal to? To the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which covers the schemes? Today, every day, there's a terrible wave, a wave of people being robbed, and people know it and feel it, and they also feel in part powerless. There is another wave — a wave of blasphemy, lies, and scary words (never thought I would live in Bible times) of pharisaism when they pray, weep, and at the same time physically plunder the widow’s houses. In Smernica, there's a little twisted woman in the square and she says, "I'm the mother of a hero of Ukraine." Indeed, the mother of the Hero of Ukraine, who cannot reach the President of Ukraine for a year and a half, is the Commander-in-Chief, who is responsible for the safety and well-being of this mother, direct duties, the mother of a hero soldier. But there is no limit to the Pharisee. Did we learn for the first time yesterday that this is being done in the army? No, it's not. But yesterday it became a public and cynical argument that corruption on the bones of people in the army is the highest official of the country and its body, the National Security and Defence Council. Then who should I appeal to? There remains an appeal to two institutions — the people and the people I believe in and to God. And this morning I decided to ask him how he was fighting the Pharisees. He would say to today's rulers of the country, otherwise he wouldn't say, "You're whitewashed, full of dirt." And I believe it's Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u29	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u30	That the Ukrainian people will conquer you with the power of their spirit. There's no point in working in this room until the President is here and he tells why the National Defence Council is "crushing" the robbery of the Ukrainian army today. Everything else is meaningless!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u31	Thank you. My colleagues, I had a call. One minute. I'm talking to everyone, colleagues. Remember, there is a Ukraine outside the elections. If we don't continue to have foreign troops in Ukraine today, we're going to break the Ukrainian international teachings that we have in Yavor, which are going across Ukraine. And, colleagues, it is important to keep in mind that there is a war, except that elections are under way, and this is no less important than an election campaign. And that's why we have to work in the hall, and that's why we have to adopt the laws that are necessary for security. Otherwise, colleagues, we change our prerogatives completely. Otherwise, it is a Pharisee. I now invite the head of the Maxim Burbak faction from the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u32	Congratulations, fellows! Tomorrow, February 27th, five years later, as the first government of Arsenius Yatsenuk was created. From the country, the former president, the government’s paralysis, the country’s hairline from the default, and the enemy forces invaded Crimea and Donbas. But our country did not actually experience any setbacks, and almost everyone continued to live a normal peaceful life. To that end, volunteers, army men, other forces, and volunteers fought on the front. In Kiev, the government of Arsenius Yatsenuk fought all day long. Ukraine has made it impossible to defend itself against a Russian aggressor, and we have made unprecedented changes in the state. Don’t listen to the Kremlin’s propaganda channels, it’s only bad and it’ll get worse. Just objectively count what has been positive over the past five years. In 2014, the leaders of the People’s Front: Prime Minister Arseni Yacinuk, acting as President Alexander Turchinov, set an example of how to guarantee the security and legality of elections in a warring country. And today, the President, the BSS, the Prosecutor’s Office, the National Police are under an obligation to protect the democratic rights of Ukrainians. An honest election is the interest of every citizen. We will not allow the power organs to be involved in political intrigues. I'm sure they all have to do everything together to ensure free, transparent and fair elections. Ensuring the constitutional system is their joint responsibility, and it will be carried out. Law enforcement authorities now have information about Russia's efforts to falsify elections in Ukraine. The U.S. Intelligence reports that too. The enemy is already in preparation. We won't let that happen. The Supreme Council should act as a mechanism for countering hostile interference. This is the launch of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate the incidents of Russian and Ukrainian involvement in the elections. The People's Front calls on factions and groups to submit their nominations to the TSC. Do not fear or block the creation of a mechanism to resist enemy influence. This commission is also to investigate sources of financing for proputin media called Ukrainian, but not secretly, to capitalize on Russia, which deny Russian aggression and humiliate Ukrainian national heroes. Next. Along with the opposition of an external enemy, we must fight for the protection of people in Ukraine. We need to restore justice with the gas payments that the gas companies cynically overwhelmed our citizens. In the Supreme Council today, there will be an appropriate decision, and I also ask the heads of factions and groups to sign up under it. And finally, those who are now talking about promoting citizens' rights in the gas field should vote for that, and we should give people the money that they have cynically stolen from gas networks. And finally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u33	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u34	The People's Front faction insists on the adoption of the 5670th Bill on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Protecting and approving our language is a priority issue of national security and defence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u35	Heroic glory! Colleagues, two statements came to the fore: one from Peter Poshenko's Block and the People's Will, they're ready to take a break for the show; the other from the Radical Party and the Fatherland, they call for a real break. So first I give three minutes from two factions of Arthur Gerasimov, and then I announce a real break.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u36	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! On January 29, U.S. National Intelligence Director Dan Coates released a report on the global threats facing the world today. Russia and its neighbours have discovered the Kremlin's plans to channel core resources into the election campaign in Ukraine. And over the past three weeks, Ukrainian law enforcement officials have found very interesting evidence of this intervention. In the election headquarters of Julia Timoshenko, curators from Russia were identified, including former trustees of Girinowski and even officials from Putin headquarters. This was made known when the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities discovered a nationwide network of electoral bribes organized by the "Fatherland" party. 44 searches revealed a network in 13 areas where millions of votes were planned. The pay was going to be a black wreck. All the documentary confirmations -- video, audio, photo-fixing, cash, and other indisputable evidence -- are currently being studied by investigators. We also listened very carefully to the previous speech, and we believe that all the evidence must be transmitted urgently to the NABU, the DBR, and the military prosecutor’s office. But I'd like to remind you, and what's more about Putin today? And he is plagued by a reborn Ukrainian army and a reborn Ukrainian defence industry. And what I'm saying is, when was it restored? And the army was restored as President of Ukraine, Peter Prashenko. When did she rob and steal? Unfortunately, including when the prime minister was Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. So, honourable colleagues, I would like to say that let's face it, and if there's evidence, urgently transfer it to the law enforcement agencies. And besides, let's not forget that I expected Russia's influence in the election anywhere, but finding representatives of Gyrinowski, Putin, the Kremlin at the headquarters of one of the candidates is already the top of cynicism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u37	One minute is a replica. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u38	The hysteric of the powder is completely satisfied. He has clearly defined who will end his rule is our team. And that's why, today, when the facts that the President is trading essentially in black traffic from the Russian Federation -- an aggressor country for our army for being thrown away through the Lenin Cowyard, because of their factory, at this time they decided to talk about their fairy tales, esbeau provocations against our team. We know for a long time that the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office are the departments of Roschen Corporation, and that's why their provocations are of no interest to us. Who bribes voters in the country, everyone knows perfectly well, and they call a thousand, given by the President, "Five thousand." For a bribe, they want to buy an election for a vote, you know? - not win. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u39	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u40	And that's why we're now saying that in the President's trade in spare parts, inequitable, for the army, we're starting an impeachment procedure against the President. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u41	Thank you. And, colleagues, at the request of two factions, I announce a 30-minute recess. At 11:15, I ask everyone to return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you. 11:15.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u42	Colleagues! So, pay attention! I want to let you know that the break time is over. Now I'm going to give you three minutes to give Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko a speech. Then we will complete the law that was before us. And I, my colleagues, ask everyone to be able to vote on the Act on the Admission of the Armed Forces of Other States to Ukraine in 2019. We've wasted too much time. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I now invite Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday an extraordinary event took place: investigative journalists have uncovered and published an investigation that they have been doing for two years, which has been confirmed by documents, negotiations, recalculations of money, a practical basis of fact, that, over two years, President Lenin's plant has been supplying spare parts to Ukraine smuggled from the aggressor country for our combat technology, completely unusable, at prices that far exceed their actual estimates of 2, 4 times, they have been rolling off, money has been lost, and in fact billions of dollars of equipment has been happening, undermining the military's resilience, destroying Ukraine's national interests. The President of Ukraine, in fact, worked on the side of the aggressor country and, contrary to the sanctions applied by Western countries, the European Union, in a shadowy way, traded with the aggressor country. This involved the heads of the National Security and Defence Council -- Mr. Gladkowski, members of his family, his acquaintances. The thing is, investigative journalists have released these materials publicly. And the Supreme Council is obliged under the Constitution to immediately violate the impeachment procedure, create a temporary commission of inquiry, investigate these matters, make decisions, and bring the impeachment procedure to a logical conclusion. Now, on our request, a board of faction leaders led by Mr. Paruby, Head of the Supreme Council was assembled. In addition to Peter Prashenko's Block, other factions did not deny the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. We're going to be making this motion, creating a temporary commission of inquiry, forming and signing up to the deputies. We insist on immediately voting on the impeachment bill. Unfortunately, the Head of the Supreme Council has refused to put it in order of day, and we, if Parliament does not respond, will address the people of Ukraine. The blood powder corruption, it won't pass in the army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u44	So, colleagues, let's get to work. I would like to remind you that we have not completed our consideration of the draft Law 10006, and we cannot go to another law until we have completed its consideration. And so, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize, and now we're going to finish his consideration. I will put it to the vote to move immediately to the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow troops of other States to enter Ukraine in 2019. So I'm announcing the continuation of the draft Act amending the Housing Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing. And I invite you to speak to the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and ZHK Shinkovic Andrija Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u45	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, at its meeting on 7 February 2019, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Housing and Other Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Protection of the Rights of Owners of Housing (Registration No. 10006 of 05.02.2019), submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Gerasimov, Andriyevsky, Shinkovič, Kodola. The bill is designed to define at the legislative level restrictions on the use of apartments in multi-housing dwellings not by destination, including hotels and other temporary residences and to increase the liability for violations of legislation in the area indicated. The alternative bill introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Lewchenk (No. 10006-1) was not considered in connection with what was submitted after the committee’s meeting. However, in the preparation of the Law, 10006 had already taken into account the previous proposals for the formulation of hostels. The Committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading review, the adoption of the Ukrainian Housing Code Amendment Act and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners of premises (registration No. 106). And in the second reading, Bill 10006, you might consider some of the positions of the alternative bill 10006-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u46	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's take nine minutes from the national MPs. In nine minutes, the vote will take place. I would like to point out: for 15 minutes, until 12:15, I will continue to be able to accept the Law on Security, on the existence of foreign troops. And that's why it's now nine minutes, then the vote, then the immediate inclusion in the agenda of the day session and the consideration of the draft law on the admission of foreign troops. Please record a statement from the deputies, please. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich. Roman Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u47	Romanov, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u48	The Self-Help Group is ready to vote in favour of the bill. But the point is that during these two non-plenary weeks we have met with hostels, the hostels who work legally pay taxes. And they have no conflict with the locals. This is the largest group of hostels throughout the country. I just want to say one thing that, for example, in Kiev, there's an estimated 130 of these hostels. And usually, complaints go to these hostels that are in no way formed. They don't pay taxes, they have anti-sanitary services. And legally, only 15. So we suggest that we don't just put sticks in the wheels for those 15 who work legally, there are no complaints about them, change the definition of hostels with the one who gave all these associations that work legally, namely: "the hostel is an economic facility designed for temporary residence, temporary residence of people. The living room where the hostel is located shall be located in a residential (non-residential) house (sections, driveways) and shall meet the following sanitary and technical standards: not less than 4 square metres of living space per bed, including a double bed, and not less than 6 square meters of the total space for each person with amenities in the room or general amenities and a separate room, a guest area." That's the definition, it's going to come out of the shadows, and it's going to be able to deal with the same problem that residents are struggling with, the people that are worried about the illegal eyes of the hostels. So we're going to ask the stenogram to take this definition of hostels into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u49	Thank you. Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u50	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u51	You're going to be talking for six minutes, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u52	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u53	Because the next one is Lechchenko. It won't. Okay. Levchenkov 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u54	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. As a Kiev Mayor, 223 counties, the Shevchenkovsky district, the central city of Kiev, I have been fighting for years for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to finally settle this issue, because I have dozens of appeals to me, and I continue to have dozens of appeals from my electorate who say that, in fact, the conditions for people living in multi-housing homes, where there are basically hostels, are unbearable. And people are just, well, just, basically, tormenting themselves in their own apartments, instead of just getting a little rest after a hard day's work. We don't have this issue in our legislation at all today, so we have the total strength of completely illegal hostels that are ruining the quality of life of most Ukrainians who live in suitable houses in multi-housing homes. I hope the Supreme Council will finally vote today. At the same time, I disagree with the definition just read by the previous speaker. I don't think that definition solves the problem in any way. And yet I insist on the definition that was laid down in our bill, in my bill, alternative, previous. But at the same time, I emphasize, along with the fact that I have been fighting for this issue for years, I am absolutely convinced today, as a Ukrainian national, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot and does not have the right to discuss anything other than the fact that today the country is ruled by sailors, bastards who simply steal the army, steal the state and in the trouble of their people, give their last copies, who send their children, grandchildren to the front, get rich, buy new items, as they say, they buy themselves, yachts, steamers buy themselves, feel very good while most of the Ukrainian people are suffering. So we have to finish this bill now, because we entered it two weeks ago. We have to finish. We have to vote for him. But I am convinced of it, once again, as a national MP, as a Ukrainian citizen, that more than that, more than that, after we vote for it now, we have no right at all to talk about anything other than the facts that were published yesterday. Talking about anything else is actually going to show that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a collective body, is an accomplice to all these crimes. And it's not some, you know, even some kind of corruption, there's a lot of different types of corruption. I'm stressing it's the break-up of the state budget, the use of the army during the war. That's why all these bastards have to be shot. I think they need to be tortured first, very important, and then shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u55	And the closing statement from the National Deputies is Arthur Gerasimov. And, colleagues, in three minutes, we're moving on to making a decision. Immediately after voting in favour of this law, I propose to include in the agenda a draft law on the admission of the armed forces of other States to Ukraine. So I'd like everyone to be in the session room in three minutes. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u56	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The law is overwhelming. I have already received hundreds of appeals from citizens not only from Kiev but from large district cities and other cities of Ukraine regarding this law. Please support in the first reading. For a second reading, all the wishes of all who have worked on this law will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u57	Colleagues, head of the committee, are there a need for a closing word? Shinkovich? No, it's not. Can we get to the vote? Then there's no need for a closing statement, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs, colleagues. I ask the heads of factions to invite all the national deputies to the Hall and the secretariat of the Supreme Council to report that we are moving on to a decision-making process. I would like to point out that immediately after this vote, I will propose to include in the agenda the draft Act on the Admission of Military Forces of Other States to Ukraine and the three other projects that have been proposed. If it's included, I'd like to move on to it immediately. And we'll be there by 12:15, I'm sure, to look at it. So, colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please take up your jobs. So I'm voting on a draft law amending the Ukrainian RSR Housing Code and other Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the rights of owners (users) of housing units (No. 10006) at the suggestion of a committee on the basis of a colleague. Just on the ground. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote! Based on the base. Please be supportive. Vote! [[12:00:04]] For-188. So, colleagues, let me put a second proposal on the committee for further work. So according to the Rules, I have to set up. Please support the proposal to return to the committee for further work. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[12:00:38]] For a hundred and The subject of the legislative initiative for further development Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[12:00:58]] For 197 The decision is not made. And an alternate 10006-1. Anyone who supports it, please vote. Alternative. Please vote. [[12:01:21]] For-149 The decision is not made. So the drafts of Laws 10006 and 10006-1 are rejected. And now, colleagues, the next block we have is the inclusion in the agenda of the session. I'm asking everyone to stay put. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. It's a matter of national security. It's a big question. I'm asking everyone to mobilize and be in the hall. So I am the first to put the proposal to put the day session in order for the decision to be adopted by the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other States to Ukraine in 2019 for participation in multinational education (10067). Colleagues, without them, military cooperation will be halted. I ask you to vote and support the inclusion in the agenda of the session immediately. To be considered immediately. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Vote. We're backing it up. Every voice. Please be supportive. [[12:02:39]] For 212 Apparently, not all colleagues were orientated. Without this law, we will not conduct any international education. And those U.S. and Canadian military units that share training with our military forces will be forced to leave Ukraine. Colleagues, please put your political emotions down, vote now, don't play with it. Not once in five years has Ukraine failed on this issue. Aggression is coming. And I ask everyone to vote now. And I'm putting once again on the vote the proposal to include in the agenda a day session for a decision now, immediately, the draft Law 10067 on the admission of troops of other states' armed forces to the territory of Ukraine. Please vote and please support. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Every voice. Careful. [[12:03:50]] For 227 Decision taken. Colleagues, I'll put the next one in, and then I'll pass. Oh, no? Okay. Colleagues, let's move on to the draft Law 10067. I ask you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. We have 10 minutes, colleagues. Please support me. [[12:04:23]] For-151 Decision taken. And, colleagues, very quickly. I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Shevchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich. Please come from the rostrum, and very concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u58	Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, honourable national deputies, the adoption of the 10067 bill is based on the need to comply with the requirements laid down in article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine for the admission of troops of other states to Ukraine. The bill provides for the admission of branches of other states to participate in six multinational studies. More than 14,000 troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, some 8,000 foreign participants, are planned to participate in these trainings. The cost of teaching is included in the State budget. The participation of the armed forces in multinational learning is a good opportunity to raise the field school and to strengthen confidence and security among the participating countries. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u59	Thank you. The reporter is Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich. Very concise, please. Thank you. You can take your place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u60	Good morning, dear fellows! In order to interact with NATO countries, the Armed Forces of Ukraine will conduct first-time training on our sites with the participation of representatives of NATO countries, namely their military formations. It is the President's constitutional mandate to make appropriate proposals for agreement to the Supreme Council. We need to do this right now, without any political positions, because we have a country that is one for politicians and factions, and for the opposition, I hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u61	Thank you, colleagues. Can we get to the vote? We can. Please: Two in, two in the opposite. I would stress speaking only on the subject of the bill, colleagues. I ask those who will sign up on the subject of the bill, otherwise I will have to stop, turn off the microphone. Please, from Peter Dustenka's Block, Jurinec. Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, we have adopted a number of important bills in this room that relate to the Euro-Atlantic integration of Ukraine and the strengthening of the defence complex, but in fact there is still a great deal to be done. The training that is being done in Ukraine today is an example of our boys who went to high school, unfortunately, at a very expensive price, in the eastern part of the country still holding the sky for us. It's very important that they can show their colleagues from other armies who have the same experience, but fortunately, they don't have the experience of protecting their state, as Ukraine does today, it's very important that they share information with their citizens. Their families know that we are in Ukraine today, and how much we have to keep the heavens in the East and protect our nation today, for example, in the West to conduct these teachings. In Lviv, such training is very common in the Yavorov region. The Peacebuilding Center is known all over the world. In June, June 24-25, there will be a NATO Assembly Inter-Parliamentary Council in Lviv, where representatives from 12 countries will come to see their military training in conjunction with the Ukrainian army. We still have a lot of work to do to meet all those standards, but we are precisely awaited and wanted to be seen among the countries that today protect democracy, freedom of speech, human rights. We realize that it's expensive today in Ukraine, but this joint learning is not only a training, learning opportunity for our military, but it's also a political activity today, spreading information about what's in Ukraine. I call on the whole room to support it, because this is actually a gradual stage in today's creation of the Ukrainian state and the ability, together with the civilian world, to build future protection strategies not just for Europe, but for the whole world. And today, Ukraine is, in fact, a supporter of this security. Please support the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u63	Thank you. I'm asking you to speak more briefly, colleague, we have six minutes left. Please, from Self-Help, Shepherd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction, Ternopil. Obviously, the Self-Help faction will support this decision, as we supported that decision last year and the past year. Realizing that today, and the assistance that comes to us from the United States, Canada, other NATO member states in the preparation of our Armed Forces, and the assistance that comes in the form of finance today, in the form of arms, is essential to us. And today, Parliament cannot stand in the way of such a decision. But today, Parliament would also like to see and ask the High Commander who initiated the decision. Because we also wanted to hear when we heard allegations of theft in the defence complex, in the Ministry of Defense, in the Armed Forces, whether or not the same theft was sometimes carried out during the same training in our ranges. In fact, when the Ministry of Defence reports today that the funds are budgeted in the state budget, Parliament has never heard a report on how those funds have been used, and not only for this programme, but also for the rest of the programmes that are being financed today from the funds of our payers. Taxpayers. So today, I think, Andrew Volodymyrovich, it's worth it that these things sound, not like the Deputy Secretary of Defense, but the author of this decision. And today is also the time for Parliament to finally hear from the author of this decision and its other decision on the use of the Armed Forces. Because when we made decisions where Russia was recognized as an occupying and occupied territory, then Parliament conditionally approved the President's decision to use the Armed Forces, and today the military and we have not seen that decision. Finally, it was time to give answers to these questions, and it was time for the military to hear about the cost of paying their family and their families to be trained, dressed, armed, and able to restore their health after returning from the war zone. Today they have no answer. That's why it's time for us to hear the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u65	Thank you. From the Radical Party is Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich. And, colleagues, there will be a vote in three minutes. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u66	We support learning internationally with the participation of our army. Our team is doing everything to make our army stronger, because the one who doesn't feed his army will feed another's army. We voted all this time when Ukrainians trusted us to represent their interests in Parliament, we voted in favour of all the laws aimed at strengthening the security of the army, increasing the security of the army, protecting the families of military personnel, increasing the salaries of military personnel and increasing the expenses of the army. We didn't vote for this money to be stolen by the President and his environment. We voted and we support the army, not so that sailors can profit from war. At every meeting I go to in Ukraine, one of the main questions people ask me: When will the war end? The war will end when Ukraine is strong. The war will end when the President - High Commander does not charge his pockets for the robbery of the army and every Ukrainian. The war will end when the children of the presidents sit in parliament, and the children of the Ukrainians from parliament throughout the country will rule. The war will end when the Ukrainians do not cheat. That is why we demand that Parliament investigate the facts of corruption, theft, abuse, looting, war profits that are now being done by the President and his environment. Published facts by journalists: Russian smuggling equipment, carpeting, casting, offshore, looting -- what's happening today in the army. It's a crime. Both President Porcelain and his environment, if they do these things, are to be held accountable. We demand responsibility, we demand investigation, we demand order.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, closing statement. And I'm asking for really fine. In two minutes, in one and a half minutes, we're going to vote. I'm asking everyone to be seated. You've only seen 227 votes. Now, from Fatherland to the word, Sergey Sobolev is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u68	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction will certainly support this decision, just as we have supported all previous decisions regarding strengthening the country’s security. Without a doubt, our faction believes that the country's defence consists primarily of the defences of the Armed Forces, which must be prepared for secession, which must have a degree in international standards, which should have appropriate equipment, appropriate weapons. That is why our voices will be devoted to this decision. At the same time, what has been announced today by representatives of a number of factions regarding the prompt investigation of the abuse, when the aggressor country's impeccable spare parts are used to destroy Ukrainian military equipment by the President of Ukraine, Mr. Grobowski, and this is evident and evident from the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u69	Gladkowski. And it's obvious from the investigations that have been conducted that it's too much to confirm that there should be parliamentary control, including the decision that we are now making. There should be parliamentary control over how such training is conducted, how technology is supplied to the army. And that's why the question of creating a temporary special commission is the only possibility of parliamentary control over such things. Our question is that it's obvious, it's always in any democratic country for the President who trades in blood, it ends with impeachment, and our team will demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u70	So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. From Front, one minute, one minute. In a minute, colleagues, take all the seats, please come in. Guys, get back to the hall. Please give me a minute, Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u71	I want to not just go to the Ukrainian Parliament, I want to go to the Ukrainian soldier. At last, in the walls of Parliament, we started to consider the law that is not only necessary for Ukraine, which is probably necessary for today for all Western or civilized worlds. Because the mutual exchange of combat experience that this law will bring, not only is it needed by Ukraine, but it is needed by all countries that can and will probably depend on an attack or a possible attack by Russia on these countries. But I'd like to go to the Ministry of Defense right now. We need to develop not only on the basis of this law, but the Ministry of Defence should cooperate with the armies of Norway, the United States of America on the creation of the unified units or units they have. such units as we have with the countries of the Baltic or Poland. And that's a pretty important step.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u72	Thank you. Five seconds. Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u73	This is a fairly important step in the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, a rather important phase in the transfer of combat experience as Moscow beats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u74	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft law on the approval of the President of Ukraine's decision to admit the military forces of other states to Ukraine in 2019 to participate in multinational studies (No. 10067) on the basis and overall of the committee's proposal. So, colleagues, please vote. Please be supportive. We vote on the basis as a whole. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. [[12:18:36]] For 263 The law is passed. Congratulations, colleagues. We have shown once again that the security and protection of the country for the Ukrainian Parliament is the most important issue. Now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:50, please return to the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u75	Colleagues, please come into the hall. Time taken for a break is exhausted. Colleagues, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I would like to welcome everyone with the adoption of an important Act allowing the armed forces of other states to enter Ukraine. And we're continuing our consideration of the security and defence cluster. Next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning military servicemen. This is a draft law that will harmonize with our NATO partners military ranks (6372). And the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to put it to a vote and I'm going to consider it as a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[12:54:02]] For-43 The decision is not taken. We're going into full procedure. And I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Shevchuk Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u76	Dear Andrija Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, the Ministry of Defence with the aim of implementing the concept of the development of a professional sergeant and senior staff and building it according to a Euro-Atlantic model, is presented in a bill. The draft law provides for amendments to three laws of Ukraine: the military duty imposed by the new military rank of Sergeant and Senior Staff, namely the military rank of Staff Sergeant, Master Sergeant, Senior Sergeant Master Sergeant, Chief Sergeant, as well as the naval rank, and is excluded from the rank of Junior Sergeant. It is also proposed to amend the Internal Service Statute as well as the Disciplinary Statute to clarify the rights of disciplinary practice. The End Positions establish the ratio of new military calls to existing ones and settles the issue of pension insurance for citizens who have been released from military service before the bill becomes effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u77	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. We're in full procedure, so I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Yuri Suhevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies and distinguished spokesman for the Ministry of Defense, I am surprised by another. Listen, you're introducing new titles, in Ukrainian, not "calling," but "military degrees," so you know, because that's pure water Russianism. So you enter new degrees, and not Ukrainian for headquarters, well, you would have a staff sergeant, not a headquarters, and so on. Why didn't you go back to the Ukrainian tradition of our liberation contests in the 17th-21s when we had the Armed Forces, the UPA and so on? You're makin' the Soviets again, so little Western, of course, not Ukrainian. I want answers to why this is happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u79	Please, Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u80	Dear national MPs, the proposed military titles envision analogies as used in our NATO partner countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u81	Thank you. John Sporish is invited to the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u82	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, we have to really rename that old system, that old Soviet Union, and to it, of course, there are no questions here. What's more, in this bill, which we have to support all the halls, it's one of the obligations, it's to rename military commissioners, and military commissioners, of course, have to be, in fact, already specified territorial centres, as well as social support, special, well, support and so on. So I think I have a question like that, wouldn't our flags that have gotten used to these names and all that? Chi. How will they, in general, respond to the fact that the law in question must be supported? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. The Army's flag-major flag has a staff sergeant's analogue. The senior flag, the senior matchmaker, has the likeness of a senior sergeant. The previous editorial conducted discussions in military groups and found approval. What's more, during the joint training that the Supreme Council has now supported, we are very grateful to you, they communicate with their colleagues from other countries, and they see the same application of the same terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u84	Thank you. And the final question is Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u85	Good afternoon. I want to say that I've been familiar with the bill, and I can say, more interestingly, to get to know the conclusions of the GNEU, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. The GNEU always writes: either work or there are nuances, and it's okay here. I read that "the stated legislative initiative is explained by the need to build an up-to-date national army based on a Euro-Atlantic model and create an active Sergeant Corps." All we have to do is say thank you for this bill and we can put it to the vote. What's more, the more bills that don't have any comments from GNEU, the more, the better and broader the Supreme Council will work. So thanks for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u86	Thank you. So this is a performance, not a question. That leaves time for the question of Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u87	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Please tell me, you are the Deputy Defence Minister, you are a military man, you are now coming out of the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am addressing you as the Ukrainian national deputy for whom the Ukrainians voted. I'm asking you, I demand that you evaluate the facts that were published last night by investigative journalists about the theft of state-owned money into the army, that your brothers in the Ukrainian Armed Forces lacked the appropriate material resources that they should have received because individuals in the highest public offices stole this money and bought themselves luxury items. How do you feel about this? And what do you think should be done with these people in terms of actual war against the Russian Federation? Please, I want an answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u88	Thank you. And I remind you that we are considering a bill amending some of Ukraine's military laws. Please turn on the microphone. We're done, aren't we? Then, colleagues, I invite you to the report of the Secretary of the National Security Committee and the defense of Vinick John Yuliyovich. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u89	Good morning, dear fellows! You know, I'd like to start with regret at the fact that, in my opinion, today's first half of our working day was actually ruined. Obviously, there is an election, an election process for President of Ukraine. We have 44 candidates, we have someone to make information provocations, we have someone to comment on them, we have someone to defend them from. It's very sad that our country is looking at us, our soldiers are looking at us, and six drafts in the area of security and defence, which were standing on the agenda, of which four are scheduled for the morning, we've barely passed one, one is obvious. It is only because many political forces in this sessionary room have not been able to vote or to miss a bill on the admission of foreign military formations for joint training with the Ukrainian Armed Forces in our territory. You know, you can't be so cynical about your job. Because the work of the People's Deputy, as defined in the Constitution, the work of a representative of our country's higher legislative body is not a mere talk from the rostrum for the purpose of great citation then in the media, and this is a work related to appropriate legislative reforms, to conscientiously staying in its workplace, to drafting bills, to criticizing them, usually constructive, I hope, not populist. As for the project that we are currently considering with you, it is another project in the area of security and defence, which we are obliged to reform with you in accordance with NATO standards. And here, again, there is no intrigue, because NATO is the only way of our long-term strategic security, it is the only guarantee of a peaceful sky in the long run. All the other alternative forms, non-blocking, non-blocking or blocking with other countries, they actually compromised themselves, were corrected, corrected on February 20, 2014, by our neighbour, the Russian Federation. And again, it's a perfect fact, it's no longer a theorem, it's an axiom, if you speak mathematical language, it's a thing that doesn't need to be proved. But once again, we're seeing a pretty weak vote, and in particular on the short-term issue. There's no need for this bill to be considered in full procedure, but the hall is so determined, so we're looking at it now. In terms of the content of the bill, it is quite simple. We're changing Soviet military ranks as a flag, a senior flag, a swordsman, a senior sword. We're introducing terms that are used in the armies of the world that are part of NATO's bloc, and they're not only part of NATO's bloc. It's about the sergeant corps: the sergeant master, the sergeant, the junior sergeant. And this is very important because a sergeant's position in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is a position that will discipline, train a Ukrainian soldier, a fighter, ideologically support him, morally, physically, physically, and during military service. This position has proved effective in many armies of the world, and it is very sad that we are only starting this reform now. Although de facto, de facto, I emphasize the position and functions of the sergeants, as is now envisaged, they are performed by other functionaries in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, with other titles. And it's a good thing that the Ministry of Defence, despite the lack of appropriate legal regulation, which is only being considered in the session room today, is conducting this de facto reform, but we are obliged to move forward. In fact, the scientific and expert office also notes that these reforms are being implemented in accordance with NATO standards. But somehow their criticism of this bill is based solely on the inadequacy of article 90 of the Rules, according to which they say it is necessary to make appropriate changes to all related acts of legislation through the Final and Transitional Regulations. We agree, by the way, as a committee of the Supreme Council we make a firm commitment that we will correct this resentment. And we're going to make the necessary changes through "The End and Transitional Positions." By the way, colleagues, when we hope to vote on this project today on the basis of the committee's respective mandate, I will ask the committee to take into account the scientific and expert management's comments on the need to make appropriate changes to other legislative acts with the corresponding definitions that we are introducing. So, colleagues, please go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u90	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u91	Please proceed to the discussion of this bill in accordance with the Rules. And I still believe that, despite all the political contradictions, we will vote on at least this bill in the area of security and defence as a basis, and we will send it to the committee today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u92	Thank you. Stay at the rostrum. And I'm asking the National Deputies to record the questions to the co-rapporteur. Please hold the recording. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u93	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, Winnitzkin, 15th District. Of course, today we are really looking at this settlement of individual issues of civil protection mobilization, and it is quite clear that this needs to be done. And even the very word when it comes to naming the military commissioner, that's the word "commissioned" -- that's the communist word, from the roots -- "commissary," we have to change. Because these are really NATO standards, and not even NATO standards, and we have to do everything equally to make it meet NATO standards. The change in these Soviet names that you've been saying, it really should be. But I'm asked this question, how will our soldiers get used to these names, and these titles themselves, will they raise the level of our soldiers, the military? Because it's really something new to get used to -- it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u94	Indeed, the colleague rightly pointed out that we would now have to consider a very important bill, which in our schedule today stands before the inclusion of the agenda and the decision-making process: the necessary reform and the renaming of military commissioners to the territorial centres of assembly and social support. By the way, it's not just renaming, it's giving them new functions and powers. That is not only the provision of mobility issues, the call for term services, but also the issue of social protection and social support. I have already talked about this with regret that unfortunately we do not see the appropriate desire of fellow members of the national MPs to support the area of national security and defence. Rather, many are now trying to pursue the political pianist by promoting their candidacy for the proper presidential race. And it's an extremely sad thing, personally, to me as an official of the Committee of Safety and Defence. As far as the question you have raised is concerned, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u95	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Levchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u96	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I'm calling the reporter right now. The reporter said that we were transforming some kind of policy and so forth, the morning session. Mr. John, this bill is right, it's important, and we're going to be in his favor, I personally, "Freedom," and we're going to vote for it in the first reading. There should be some work done on the second reading, but we will vote in the first reading. Mr. Ivan, I'm asking you right now, I'm asking you as the National Deputy of Ukraine, a representative of the Ukrainian people on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and don't look. Don't look everywhere for cynicism, politics everywhere, because there are some national MPs who are really just, you know, indignant and shocked by what's going on. Tell me, please, personally, do you think the Supreme Council of Ukraine can quietly continue to consider all these bills now, after the whole country has seen and heard yesterday, and what do people now see? What reform of the army and NATO standards can we talk about when the highest officials of the state steal money from the army? What Is Politics or Elections? As a national MP, say your own opinion. I don't think the Supreme Council can work in such a regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u97	I'll tell you what, I didn't hide it in public. In this case, as a national deputy and as a citizen, I was not asked by the committee to comment on the investigation of Bihus.inf. Oh, I see, in this case, you refer to him when you say that the whole country has seen him. Do I get it right? That's right, yes. Well, you just didn't say, so I think I should comment. I'm just basing my conclusions on the fact that we've seen two speeches from Ulysses Volodymyrovna Timoshenko on this subject and one from the Radical Party, where fellow MPs have proposed to shoot the President and the other one to announce impeachment. So I just don't know exactly what we're talking about. Well, shoot -- we don't have that in the Criminal Code at all, and we don't even have to pass some sort of profile law. If there are three quarters of the votes now to remove the President from office, what problems? If not, let’s not just shake the air with vocal accusations. Regarding Bihus.info . I got to know the job.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u98	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u99	Okay. I'll answer the next question, maybe I'll give you an open answer. I've been very familiar with the work of journalists, with great respect, by the way, to this group of investigative journalists. We watched the latest investigation of Semochko, and I followed the same position that I will now hold. We're going to expect a response from law enforcement agencies, we have monopolized independent anti-corruption structures that can give these materials an assessment. At the same time, if you comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u100	Thank you. Well, let's ask one last question. Borislav Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u101	Mr. Winnick, Mr. Winnick, I see what you're talking about here, you're breaking up. Please tell me, do you think you can now make any decision in this room that does not have 226 votes? You can see it's no worse than I am. Moreover, according to the fact that there are no votes in the voting room right now, it is not possible to report the attacks to the TSC. About the murder of Katy Hanszük and the attacks on the public activists that I am the head of. And you can't now hear this report, you can't continue because you need 150 votes, you don't have it. Moreover, it takes 226 votes to pass the law. So what do we do now? I understand the election. But do you really believe that someone is voting for something right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u102	Well, I'm not breaking up here, I'm reporting a bill that I've been entrusted with by the committee. The committee has nothing to do with the work of the commission you lead. As for the number of deputies in the room, I have twice expressed my indignation with this fact, and I regret to say that, unfortunately, we are seeing that going into the political process is hampering our work today. And perhaps if the changes to legislation that really need to be made need to be corrected somehow when a national MP combines his appointment with another fully-fledged institution – at the President's Institute, while being a public-political national deputy, and uses his actual authority to advocate for himself while receiving a salary from the state budget, is it not a bribe, a certain form or form of conflict of interest? It doesn't have to be answered, colleagues. And the absence of deputies in the Hall is now a direct causal link to this situation. Look, that part of the hall where we don't see it from the faction of the corresponding presidential candidates, it's sitting in its seats behind it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u103	Thank you. Thank you. You can take your place, Mr. Coroner. We finished the questions. Thank you! We're moving on to the discussion. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare, there'll be questions. Now there will be a discussion from the MP factions. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Pisarenko of the Rebirth Party. You'll be out of town, won't you? Please turn on the microphone. Pisarenko, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u104	Thank you, Madam Chairman. What I'm saying is that it's really important that we move away from the election campaign and we're now discussing national security and defence legislation. I just want to say what we need to do if we want to set up further work, but still look at the agenda that we will continue today after considering these bills. Unfortunately, a major bill on counterfeiting and bribing of citizens in elections today is at a standstill. Just a week ago, he was forecasting for the passage. This is, in my opinion, the attitude of Parliament towards those problems that are also urgent today for consideration in the session room. We're talking about what we need to look at in a complex way at what laws come out at such an important moment for the country. I would also like to support my colleagues from the Radical Party who spoke of the need to call to the session hall of heads of internal affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service. I think they'd be more interested in the security bill, and we'd be interested, including what's going on in the country where the armed conflict is taking place, and we'd be interested in everything that's going on with the elections during that conflict. We have to look at the painting more broadly, taking into account the problems we face every day. For no one is the secret that a large number of people today, and this is also national security, are working to change the outcome of the elections. And I want to tell you, if they're going to be changed in an unconstitutional way, those bills that we're now adopting with you may not be possible, because we don't know what goals and tasks are in the people who want to distort the results of the elections today. That's why our "Rebirth Party" MP group will support everything that's meant to support national security and the country's defences. In doing so, we would like to point out that we see this issue more complexly, we see that forgeries in elections are also a matter of national security and defence. We see that if we don't protect the country from the inside, we will be powerless from trying to attack from the outside. So let us look very closely at the agenda and move these bills, which are related to forging elections and increasing accountability during elections in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u105	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Leschchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u106	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Of course, the question that we are discussing must be voted on, although there is great doubt that there will be a majority of the deputies in the room. Because this is the result of a corrupt system of elections when the majority of deputies who do not want to serve people but to serve their personal business interests come through the majority. But I want to dedicate my presentation to the subject. Please ask your relatives, friends, friends, and find an Internet-based Web channel called Bihus. info Bihus.info . Last night, a sensational investigation was published on this internet channel, as well as on some television channels, about how, during the war, President Prashenko's closest environment was stealing money from Ukrainian defence companies. During the war, it's not just corruption, it's treason, and it's the highest responsibility that exists in the country. Please search the Internet or have your younger relatives find your loved ones and include them. Tell that to your neighbors and friends. Because they're blocking that information on TV. So the point is that the "right hand" of Dusty, called Oleg Gladkowski, who changed his last name was Svinarczuk, along with his son Igor Gladkovsky, who is the Honorary Consul of Seychelles in Ukraine and uses the deputy. I'm sorry, diplomatic integrity, they built a scheme for looting state-owned enterprises in the area of the defence complex. They smuggled from Russia here used, used details that were then supplied through a series of companies to state defence companies. At the very least, this scheme brought them 250 million dollars during the war, stolen blood money. And it's all happening, I repeat, right now. And a month from now, every citizen of Ukraine has to sentence this authority. And these aren't the only schemes, and these are the typical schemes, which are tens and hundreds. I've been publishing from this rostrum ever since in the media about how the state-owned firm Impulse in Sixth sold a party on Cyprus offshore for a hundred thousand euros of detonators that went from this Cypriot offshore to Serbia for 800,000 euros -- the same party, the same set. So the navar was 8 times the money that was stolen, 8 times not 80 percent, but 800 percent of the money that was stolen from our defense companies. And such examples are tens and hundreds of them in the last five years of the presidency of Dustenka. That's why the last month of this power remains, and all Ukrainian citizens have to understand that if we don't change this power, we will always be held hostage by corrupts and thieves who rob us, using what we've got in the highest cabinets of the state. This authority must go into oblivion and to the bench of the defendants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u107	Thank you. I invite you to speak from the People's Front faction. Savka National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u108	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians, exactly five years ago, our citizens in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea did their utmost to prevent certain bills from being passed in Moscow's hands. Tomorrow, 27 numbers called "green men" came to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, who did their best to occupy our territory, Ukraine. We need to know, we have to remember. I'm saying this so we can think about what we are, great colleagues. We must adopt certain laws that relate to the national security and defence of Ukraine, which are needed by the armies at the time of the fifth year of the war. We must do our utmost, and above all, to ensure that our military, our soldiers and our officers know one thing: that our Parliament of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will do its utmost to ensure that our military personnel are provided with everything we need. If this has some negative effects, there are certain law enforcement agencies that should come and investigate and put everything in place. And in addition, we, the parliamentarians, the members of the Supreme Council, have to create a commission and verify some of the negative actions that are currently taking place in certain Armed Forces of Ukraine, if they are. But we must not deviate in any way from the adoption of the laws that are currently necessary for the Armed Forces of our country, Ukraine. So the bill, which currently stands, as far as the concept of the development of the sergeant and the senior staff is concerned, we have to accept it, and these Soviets at this time, we have to wipe them off the face of the earth. We have to do everything we can to ensure that communism, including in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, is not, because the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which were approved in 1999, are, in themselves, copied from the old statutes of the Soviet government, the Soviet Union. We have to change it, and we have to change it to the root, so it doesn't happen. And in addition, I call upon everyone, including the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, to think about the name of the military acts of our own state, the State of Ukraine, concerning the Ukrainian rebel army, and regarding the Ukrainian People's Republic, our heritage, to us our ancestors added the best legacy. We have to put it into practice, and we have to be on top of it. And besides, we shouldn't forget our story. Our story is our future. It's these bills that itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u109	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u110	The People's Front will support it. And even now some members of the Supreme Council are speaking, with few votes. The People's Front is generally in the Supreme Council and it accepts these bills that our country -- Ukraine -- needs. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the Shurma People's Deputies. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u112	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. You know, honorary colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, I didn't have the desire to participate in this bill, but I was forced to take the floor by a representative of the Ministry of Defense. To Mr. Yuri Shuhevich's question, "explanation of the reason for the change of military names" was the answer: "Because we do what our NATO partners do." You know, maybe that's enough blasphemy and lying down with someone? You don't respect yourself. Say, please, when in the history of the Ukrainian army were the words "sergeant headquarters," "chief chief"? If you need to, you're operating on the Constitution of Philip Orlik, because that's our story. But somehow you don't operate on the military names of the Cossack army. You're constantly operating on history when you need it. When it came to Tomos, you turned to the history of the XV-XVI century, and now you want to lose your identity for the sake of unknown bargaining. You tell me, if you assign a master sergeant instead of a flag, what does he grow up to be, a level of patriotism, a love of his state? Will there be an increase in wages or professional readiness, or will there be an increase in the desire to protect Ukraine from the enemy? Please tell me, why do you allow these double standards for today? Please tell me if Turkey is adapting in its titles to Nazi titles too? And what I want to say is, when you're talking about history, this is going to have to be eliminated, because the commissioners are the Soviet Union. Why don't you tell me, then, who are the commissioners in Europe who run the police? Are they from the Soviet Union, too? And the European Commissioners of the European Commission are who, too, are the Soviets? You want to go to bed with someone and change things up today on tariffs, you've switched to poverty issues, you're not interested in what you're representing the government today -- and you're working as a minister with secondary education, with a passport from a U.S. citizen. You don't care. Let's rename it. Do you know why that is? Because today you're doing everything you can to somehow talk about the fighting people of Ukraine during the presidential campaign. You're not fighting for people, you're fighting today to show who's coming to power and who's going to have what authority, and the army is going to be like, you know, camouflage to warm people's heads. You have constant sex with the brains of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u113	From the Self-Help faction to the word, the Shepherd is invited. Please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u114	Dear Ukrainians, Taras Shepherd, The Self Help Union, Ternopil. I want to pay attention to what's going on in the hall today. Obviously, after the investigations that became available to society yesterday, and not just in Ukraine, and I think they're already seeing it and analyzing it abroad, unfortunately, today we're trying in the hall here with any questions, in any way, to cover up all those stories. Today the authors of the bill come out, go out with reformist things and try to convince them that today it is a decisive reform and a step forward. I just want to show everyone the date the bill was registered. That was almost two years ago. This bill was registered in April of the 17th. And so far, in Ukraine, it did not need either the General Staff or the Ministry of Defence or those deputies who are going to the rostrum today and telling us that this is an immediate need to adopt this bill, and then we will definitely meet NATO standards. It's just, it's a little bit of a conspiracy today. Look at the conclusions that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration has written. They say that despite the good idea of redrafting the provisions that are needed today for our integration into NATO, the bill is simply written on the knee. At a time when we change titles in ten articles, more than twenty or thirty articles keep all these titles as they were: the flags, the elders, the ranks. And there's actually no change. However, that this does not change in other laws, today we are in conflict with one law with other laws. What's more, the next bill that we're going to consider, we're going to write down the authority of the seniors, we're going to write down the authorization of the flags of those that we're going to try to abolish in this law. So it seems that at the Ministry of Defense and General Staff, one hand doesn't know what the other hand is doing. And this is all the time that Parliament should hear, and what is really going on in the defence sector and in the national security and defence sector, listening to those people who are being accused of today's corruption in order for people to believe that taxes can still be paid in this country, and that these taxes today are needed by our military personnel on the front, but we're talking. We want people today to show a beautiful mine at a bad game, and that's when in individual politicians, individual officials in our country are so full of pants that this smell is already going around the country, we want to continue to show our face the expression of happiness. Guys, it's not going to pass in Parliament anymore, it's not going to pass in Banks and it's not going to pass in Gruszewski, and people have already seen the truth, and people have already opened their eyes. Regrettably, the disappointment is one of the new powers that came after Maidan, who came to war. I hope that in a few days, a full assessment will be given, and no one will need these reports in parliament, but they will be given an evaluation and places in prisons and benches for them to be ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u115	First of all, "The will of the people" is Ribczynski. Mr. Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u116	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I see that the problem is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is trying to pretend that nothing is happening in the country. And by proposing what laws are needed and by demonstrating the call to ensure the country's security, we want to avoid the problems that are burning for Ukrainian society today. I think that anyone who works in the district, with respect to his colleagues, will confirm that if this level of hatred that is circulating in Kiev between the politicians and the institutions of state power reaches a deep end, we will tear the country apart. And the Supreme Council, and we're all going to be responsible for this. Because when we talk about what decisions are needed, we don't talk about people being left alone today, they can't survive with these tariffs and utilities that they're being offered at cloudy prices. The Supreme Council cannot dare, gather, listen to this question. And tell us where the authorities can help and how to support people to survive. Next. Under the beautiful slogans of decentralization, I've been listening here today to how they drooled on this topic, which "lives better and lives more and more fun," and they don't understand that living has become more fun for those who have made their wages and have increased their management in every area, look, twice. Instead, what do we see? Schools, kindergartens, and FAPs are again being optimized. If there were brains, they would have thought that it would not be necessary for people to be destroyed before the elections. Let me show you an even more visual example. In Novograd-Wallin children's home for children with mental and physical disabilities, 42 children. Think about it. 42 kids are all with the living parents. The salary, I ask, which one? It's a net 3 thousand 300 dollars, and that's a minimum wage of 4 thousand 173. But the calculations go ahead, and at the very least they have driven up the extra payments for the special status of these people who care for these children with special needs. And we're talking about reform, we're talking about relationships, and we're not talking about people at all. We need to stop, Your Honor. And the Supreme Council has to take responsibility and demonstrate that it is the center of stability and tranquillity in Ukraine. Because elections in Ukraine may not end if we receive daily information that causes a social explosion. I can see that we need to stop making this decision and simply say what the country is in and what we need to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u118	And from the faction, it's a closing act. From "The Fatherland" Sergeiyevtushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u119	Sergeyevtushka, "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, given the proposed bill, we see in the position that there is a point of changing them, I mean now the statutes and other normative acts that need to be updated. We see military titles written in small letters, we see soldiers, sergeants, various expeditions and all that. But at the same time, at the same time, I want to say that my colleagues were literally speaking to me about NATO, about collective security. So, as part of the All-Ukrainian "Faith in Ukraine" tour, where they meet with millions, with hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians, Yulia Timoshenko, we, the People's Deputies of the Fatherland faction, are asked: Why is Ukraine not in NATO to date? The question is: Why is war going on to this day? And the answer to these questions is literally in investigations like Bihus. info that clearly shows that President Prašenko, along with his environment, is making billions of dollars in blood. How can I ask how a war can end in conditions where the President of the country executes and sanctifies these things? How can we be members of NATO's collective security if there's an army that's booming with corruption? So now, in these moments, we see a message that Mr. Gladkowski is in charge, and this is the first tray. I call on all the power structures, and I urge you, fellow members of the national MPs, to join the initiative to create a temporary commission of inquiry, because the Ukrainian Parliament needs to give a clear assessment of these actions. I call on the National Security and Defence Committee to also gather for an emergency meeting, to evaluate and conclude on such actions. I want to say that not only will such laws really lead us to Ukraine becoming a full member of collective security, a member of NATO, but, at the same time, when we get the opportunity to join you here in the Ukrainian Parliament, through Ukrainian forces to control the highest officials, especially those who earn billions of dollars in blood. And what I'm going to say is, first of all, we're worried about this topic, because it's about war and our country, but it's happening, this corruption, it's happening in other areas: capital construction, in places. So corruption is now consecrated, both vertically and horizontally. So our job with you is to have control, not to be able to steal any bracelets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u120	The factions are finished. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to make a statement from the people's deputies, please hold the record. 15 minutes from the national deputies, please. Melnichenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u121	Good afternoon, please pass the word to Shinkovich Andry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! What can Parliament do for the army today to strengthen our resilience? First of all, it's to demonstrate discipline and responsibility in your work, first of all. Secondly, I don't agree with a respected colleague from the Opposition Block, because we really need a single standard of double standards, especially for the army. And in this room, I don't think there's anyone with common sense who doubts that NATO standards for Ukraine are the only ones that we need today. Because the standards of the army of the aggressor country, which at first guaranteed security and then carried out military aggression and continued to abuse us, these standards, sorry, keep it. Friends, let's answer the question: Who today needs to discredit the army and the defence of Ukraine? Who, exactly? Of course, Putin, no one else! With whose hands does he carry out this operation against Ukraine and against the Ukrainian people? I'm sorry. Unfortunately, with the hands of our colleagues present. I'm sad to be a colleague with someone who provokes, stirs up a situation that slanders and lies try to create in society such a complex situation that our miserable people before the presidential election, and they're already mixed up in their heads because of it. because of this chatter and because of these provocations that we've been hearing all day. Let's work and adopt laws, let's speak on the subject of the bill, not in every speech we make, to distract ourselves from the topic, from what is essential today, just to destabilize the situation and not allow the presidential campaign to take place. There's no presidential campaign in this room and there shouldn't be. Someone forgot that the Supreme Council stands out as no place for political advertising or anti-advertisement, because everyone who tries to speak today is creating an anti-advertiser first and foremost to themselves and their leaders. Unfair and dirty fighting is, unfortunately, a sign in Ukrainian politics today. So from the Peter Prashenko faction, I urge you, dear colleagues, to work, not to do what, unfortunately, we are still doing from this very morning. Working on laws, working in the name of Ukraine, for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u123	Thank you. The word is given to Mustafa Najem. As you wish, Mustafa, the only thing I ask to speak on the subject of the bill. On the subject of the bill, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, we are now considering a bill that seems to help our defence complex and our army. I want everyone who hears us to understand what happened back there. Over the years, our fellow journalists have published information that the son of one of the members, the Undersecretary of National Security and Defence, was and was involved in the theft of the defence budget. A twenty - two - year - old boy in this investigation overpaid and sold technical details to the state at 2, 3 times more expensive, and for this money he bought cars using his mother’s name and surnames as military personnel, specific units, specific companies, and he shared specific budgets with his father. At the same time, in our country of HennadayTruhanov, the mayor of Odessa, who is one of the pillars of Peter Prashenko in this region, having the citizenship of the Russian Federation, which he lost in the 17th year, continues to be a representative of the President. At the same time, Gennady Kernes, the man who is all of us sitting on this side of the hall, directed anti-Madan at us, beat us in these areas, continues to play the role of human beings, the president's postmaster. At the same time, we have the head of one of the intelligence units that has the citizenship of the Russian Federation, and this is confirmed by the Ukrainian Security Service. This isn't about the election. I understand that many are now reluctant to talk about elections, about what will happen on March 31st. But tell me, please, how do you want to invite this data with this information to the urns? Whom should they vote for? Why, then, do these slogans all over the country about the army if there's money in the back of these soldiers? It's 250 million dollars -- just what's now documented and it's been going on since the 15th. All these three years, we've been told that the army is getting stronger and that's the truth. But please tell me why the President's partner here is his partner, Mr. Gladkowski, a business partner, his closest friend, being in national security and defense, leading the interdepartmental commission, managing such theft, would you please just explain? And one last question. Tell me, please, after all this, how are we going to say that this is the President who is now saying that the Kremlin is attacking? Does the Kremlin allow those things to be done? Did Putin steal that money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u125	Bakumenko Alexander Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u126	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, please pass the word to Mr. Matzoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u127	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u128	Good afternoon. Roman Macola, 190 constituency, Hmelnicka district. You know, today's discussion is whether you need to change the standards, you don't need standards; you need to change the names of the military or not. I'll definitely tell you what to do. Why? Because if we don't move away from Soviet symbolism, it won't do any good. Why? Because the only thing is really, we can be protected in NATO. But what I'm saying is, not only do we need to change the standards, but we also really need to see the security and the material, really, the soldiers and the sergeants, and all the military personnel, because pay today. Well, it's said softly, it's different from Nato's. Therefore, everyone’s request is indeed to support this bill. Yes, indeed, colleagues say there is a discrepancy with other laws, with other positions. I think this can all be fixed, we need to start with something, we need to start working and do, really, what we need to do with you. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u129	Imacola is now passing it on to John Sporish. Please turn on the microphone. Mr. Ivan, your speech is now. Oh, you're from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u130	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 19th Precinct, Winnitzkin. I want to remind us today that you and I are considering a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of mobilization, civil protection. I repeat, mobilization and civil protection, as well as social protection and social support for individual categories. What do we hear from this rostrum that we hear from this hall? Who hasn't said, "For the children, for, well, don't know anymore." For the grandkids of the great-grandsons, everyone is now. We've had all these political battles today, like we have tomorrow's presidential election in a month. But at the same time, I'm counting, Andry Volodymyrovich, well, let's just go out to the rostrum and say, "for chickens, not turkeys," then let's stop, let's say that we are. You've asked that question before, and you did the right thing. And right, and we have to stop, because we see these political battalions. We see that everyone who went to the rostrum is already the President, but out of the 44 presidents, we all know that this is going to be one. Don't we need to change NATO standards today? From the People's Front, Mr. Colonel. Well done, he really told us today, telling from this rostrum the truth that should be in our army and everything. Today, we go out to the rostrum and say: ‘ That’s not true, that’s not right and that’s wrong. I think if we're going to NATO standards, we need to think about it early, we really need to change these Soviet symbols for as long as we can. And, really, it's the word "commissioner", "commissioner", "military commissioner," you know, I understand perfectly what you can do, but, along with what do we do? We have to, and some here from the Opposition Block it's also. He says no, we have to leave, because it's a Soviet symphony. No, it shouldn't be. I think we should all do everything together so she's gone. We have to change all these Soviet titles today, and I think we should not speak from this rostrum for politics today, but for this bill that we're talking about today. But unfortunately, I don't think it taught us today. And I'm also going to go and meet my voters, and they're saying, "What do national MPs do?" Don't they understand that you're politically pianist here instead of speaking for that bill that needs to be spoken? I think there's a lot of different factions here, you don't want to call it, because they're going to ask for a minute now, but, at the same time, there's going to be a time where they're going to be punished fairly, not for this pierre that they're talking about in this rostrum. So let's unite, let's work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u131	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u132	We will work as the Supreme Council, not as a rostrum to become President. I realize 43 against one, but we also know that this one did more than 43. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u133	Turn on the microphone, please, Shuhevich Yuri Romanovich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u134	Dear MPs, about the bill. Let's not be hypocritical. How much change in military names and military degrees will bring us closer to NATO? Not a millimeter. We can call them what we want, who they were, who they will remain. So don't be a hypocrite, don't be a hypocrite, what you call that, as in NATO, is so accepted. In Latvia, the head of the Soviets, feldfebel--was and is. You know what in Poland both Corporal and Pluto is, there is a corporal and a quarter in Czechs. The Germans are left with the same hefriter, the unter officer, the feldfebel, the Ober-feldfebel. By the way, there are these names in the Bundesver, and the French have the same names. And you want a Ukrainian language that is filled with Russianism and God knows how much more to beautify with English and Americanism. That won't get you anywhere near NATO. Or did we mention the Ukrainian tradition and the names of the Ukrainian military powers? Or perhaps we would return to the Corporal, the Senior Corporal, the Rebellious, and the Elder Bunch. Okay? Why not? But no, you have to, 'cause it's like a despicable white man that it's all going to be. Do you want it or not? Not anymore. So don't talk about getting closer to NATO, it won't help you, it won't help you, it won't get within a millimeter of NATO. That's not the approach to NATO, keep in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u135	Thank you. And the closing act, and at the same time, it's going to be the time for a lineup. Debenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u136	Dear citizens, Alexander Dolzhenkov, the Opposition Block. Now we're looking at a lot of questions, and are they important to the average citizen of Ukraine? Is it important for you to change your military rank? I don't think that's going to matter very much for Ukrainian citizens or for military personnel, because for military personnel, it's probably material security and weapons, quality weapons that they have access to. For a Ukrainian citizen, it also doesn't matter because a Ukrainian citizen needs to know that there should be a strong army in Ukraine. But what a strong army we can have if, first of all, we can't overcome the corruption that the members of the coalition are now fighting for, former members of the European Ukraine coalition, in order to raise their ratings among Ukrainian citizens before the presidential elections. Why don't we talk about the main concern of civil society right now? And he's concerned that the promises you made in the coalition agreement that you're building a really European country, they didn't know that this European country was going to be the poorest European country in Europe when, according to economic indicators, Ukraine did not have the worst positions. They did not know that the natural gas tariff would be reached by astronomical figures and would increase by 12 times. Since 2020, it's going to be about 12 or 13,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters. They probably didn't know that. And now you're switching the attention of Ukrainian citizens to the fact that you're supposedly creating a powerful Ukrainian army, changing the officer names that have nothing to do with that historical past, first. And secondly, from that Soviet past, which is an integral part of all of us with you, and mine, is part of my past, we don't need to be baptized. You know, I was part of a delegation in Brussels, and there's this street, Stalingrad Street. And the cities are not like that anymore, but yet the Europeans, unlike us, are not trying to destroy everything and build something new, like the International, but they probably take into account the historical memory that still cannot be erased from the heads of our Ukrainian citizens of our society. And whatever you're saying about what you don't need to do, I think that this faction, a presidential faction that doesn't use citizens' trust, and this is parliament, doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u137	Ten seconds to complete. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. In a minute, we'll move on to making a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u138	They have no moral right to indicate what we should live with, what heroes and what history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-26-m0.u139	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the decision. Please ask the factions to invite the deputies to the hall. I would also like to remind you that we still have a proposal for a day-to-day session of another law from the National Security and Defence Unit - 10008. The committee says the hall supports it. It's just an inclusion. And immediately after voting for this law, I will lay down other laws that we have included in the agenda of the day session. In advance, I warn you not to break up after the vote. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's military-servicing laws (No. 6372) to propose to a committee just on the ground. Based on the base. Please vote and please support. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. [[13:58:44]] For-147 Next up, we're on a committee to work on. Please vote. That's what the committee's got to work on. [[13:59:08]] For-166 The decision is not taken. And last but not least, the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote, please support. [[13:59:26]] For-163 The decision is not taken. And draft Law 6372 I declare rejected. Colleagues, now pay attention! I propose to include in the agenda of the day's session a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of mobilization, civil protection. I want to remind you, it has an important amendment that also applies to the problem of exchange. The committee said that they had talked to all the factions and groups. Now we're just putting it into the agenda for making a decision. I'm going to continue this session for five minutes so that we can vote on it. And I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision 10008. Please vote and please support. [[14:00:28]] For-153 No votes. In fact, I told the committee that unfortunately there was not enough support. The next thing I'm going to do is put 9075 into the agenda, to amend some Ukrainian legislation to extend the simplified procedure for the reorganization of public and municipal health institutions. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. After lunch, we'll be able to look into it. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[14:01:09]] For-152. And the final one is 10077: a draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the application of temporary provisions for special judicial investigation and judicial conduct, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. [[14:01:42]] For-125 It's not a decision you make, colleagues. So I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock, we'll continue with the security and defense issues. And I, colleagues, hope that after lunch we will work more productively. Although, at the same time, the law that we passed: the continuation of the presence in Ukraine of our allies' armies -- it was a dutiful law. I think it was a very important decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 16 o'clock, I'm expecting everyone in the hall.
