ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Are you ready? So I'm asking you to register. Please register. [[10:04:51]] 342 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy, Victor Vasilovich Chumak. Welcome to your birthday. [[Applause]] And today, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes of public speaking. I emphasize, not from factions, but from national MPs. Therefore, any national MPs who intend to take part in the discussion may be asked to sign up. Please turn on the record. Germano Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today, Wednesday, we're doing a Southern Timekeeping. And I would like to draw your attention to how the adoption of those bills that have been tabled for consideration will go. It's a question of a temporary commission of inquiry to develop a procedure for the announcement and implementation of the President's impeachment, the head of state. But at the same time, I would like to focus on the fact that everything is ready for tomorrow. And I think it's up to the Supreme Council to get out of the way to put the election code in order of the day. I would like the Ukrainian citizens to know, and the national MPs, speaking to their conscience, with their thoughts, knew that if we entered into the difficult atmospheric phenomena of the legislative process of this code, we would not be working until the end of our sentence. We will leave this room with even greater shame, because you have witnessed the language law that you put before the elections to win dividends. This is unacceptable in our country, especially at this time, when such difficult conditions, when our fighters are killed, when the social spectrum and social growth of citizens have become a deadlock that we have become, in fact, a beggar of Europe and all the continents of the Earth. We're collecting data, we're collecting money from not just the International Financial Bank, we already have private creditors giving money, and they gave it in April, and no one took it. We'll take the fall under 10 percent, not under 6. This should be the problem of consideration. And the last thing I'd like. As much as you can give a speech. a conversation about genocide. Apologize, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u3	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u4	I'd like you people to answer why we're not asking questions about the termination of Decree 876, which essentially made insolvent substantive. The overwhelming mass of our people has made them hungry and poor. It's on our conscience, and we have to admit it. Let's think about it at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Since there has been a call to me, I want to confirm that tomorrow I plan to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to start a review of the Electoral Code on Open Lists. And I believe this is the responsibility of the Supreme Council of this calling. Just as I consider the fundamental decisions of this Council and the Language Act that you mentioned, and the Education Act, and the Church Laws, and decommunization, and reforms in all spheres of life. We'll leave this room with our heads up high, because we have something to tell the Ukrainians. You will leave this room and from Ukrainian history with shame. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, have fulfilled our obligations to Ukraine. And the Electoral Code and open lists are one of our ultimate big commitments. And I'm sure we can take him to this summer session. Thank you very much. And I invite you to the word of Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u6	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, distinguished viewers, of course, there is now enough discussion about how effective the work of the Supreme Council can be in the last period before the new one works. What you need to focus on. And I support my colleagues' opinion that the highest level of concern in the work of the Supreme Council today should be the subject that most societies are concerned about. And they're clearly defined. First. It is an impeachment procedure, that is, the procedure for removing the President and the highest officials from their duties if they fail to perform them effectively. The other one. This is a change in the electoral system. I want to pay attention to all the colleagues who are opposed. The question is not how technical it is possible to delay consideration of the matter. But it needs a solution. Therefore, we must consider the Electoral Code as quickly as possible and make a decision. And the third topic, your honor, is the removal of the MP's immunity. I want to ask you. Do you know where part of your colleagues who are not in this room are now? I'll give you an answer. I personally know those colleagues of mine who are now in the constituencies, and they're handing out food kits called Greek, Oil and all. And they're applying for high ratings and electoral ratings, and they want to be back in the Supreme Council. So let's distribute and accept those mechanisms that will ensure that there are no such people here. Therefore, it is imperative that we remove the int touch and consider the matter. Another cluster of issues related to the effective functioning of the Ukrainian government. Dear colleagues, again, note the news in the media that individual national deputies received large financial preferences from the government budget during the past year. How did this happen? This should be a separate consideration of the matter. But today they are using it for their own good. So let's work with the government and do everything we can to get the government to do the best we can to help it run state-run road repair and construction programs, to build out clinics, schools, that's the whole block of social issues. And once again, I demand from the government the adoption of a state social programme to protect the Chernobyl population. Participants in the elimination of the Chernobyl AES accident until now, the government program that was adopted, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u8	The old program's over, the new one's not accepted. Every day they care, they demand a clear program. There was a meeting with international representatives yesterday, with ambassadors from other countries, and the topic of Chernobyl came up again. Please support me on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich is invited to attend. He gives the word to the Soviets. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In the past era, three military personnel died protecting our country of Ukraine, and three were injured. I will ask, my fellow Members, to stand up and pay tribute to the heroes of our country. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. The war continues. Are Our Soldiers Protected? No, it's not. There's no social package. And every soldier who is currently on the front is taking care of us, our country of Ukraine, so that we can be protected, so that our homes will never be shot. To be here in the Supreme Council, we have adopted these laws that are necessary to defend our nation, which are necessary for our military personnel to be protected on the front as well as their families and children. Starting with housing, many of the funds were spent by the Ministry of Defense, not on the assignment of housing for military personnel. It's about the Mikolai garrison. As for the garrison of Kyiv, and in this regard, we too must, honourable national deputies, raise this question, go to a special assembly and order. That's the first one. The other one. Many in this House of People’s Deputies criticize the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, to whom we will speak, are sick and tired of being in the Supreme Council, please establish a mandate and go, but by no means take a negative approach to the Supreme Council, to higher legislation. Starting from this rostrum, the higher rostrum of our country of Ukraine, don't be panicky, don't be provocative, and don't work in Moscow, on the fifth column, which at the moment is what the Russian Federation dictates. We need to understand that there is a war going on, and we, honourable deputies, should come here and adopt these bills that our country needs, and we need the people of Ukraine. And many national deputies are not currently in the workplace. Dear Ukrainians, I am addressing you, not all those who neglect their jobs. There are good - conscienceed national deputies who serve the people of Ukraine with honor and responsibility. When we come to the polling station, we need to understand that when we give our vote, where this national MP was, whether he was in the workplace, or whether he was doing his job, which is ignoring his working time. Therefore, we must, the honourable national MPs, gather together to ensure that we do not allow the provocations here in agreement, not allow those who will work for the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u11	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u12	That is why I call upon all, honourable national MPs, to come to the session room and adopt these bills that our country needs. Praise the Armed Forces of Ukraine! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u13	Singer Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u14	Dear friends, dear colleagues, today on the Professional Committee on Science and Education will consider, at an extended meeting, a very important issue – a matter that has not been settled, unfortunately, since 2014, when the previous Supreme Council passed the Higher Education Act, and in fact technicalities and colleges (the old, this is the higher education institutions of the I-II level of accreditation) have remained in the legal vacuum. Today, the committee is discussing this issue in the second question. I hope we'll make this decision, it's very important, because it has to settle these things. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I'm addressing you, understanding that tomorrow you're going to be asking questions about the Electoral Code, and if we go in there, we're not going to look at that question anymore, and we're waiting for this decision to be made by the 300,000 people who are in this education chain. So after considering this matter, we ask the committee, our committee asks that we put this question to the vote. Why do we vote it through consensus, as they say? Because the group, an expert group (about 100 experts), has been working for the last six months, we have found compromises on all issues, including issues of supervisory board, authority and functionality, the election of management of technologies and colleges, including the issue (this is also very important) of funding. For the first time, we're proposing a completely new funding model that provides an appropriate diversification of the sources of technology and colleges: it's also a grant holding, it's a district budget, it's also a local budget, it's also funding a business office that needs a sergeant's component of our economy. The issues raised regarding the limitation of the rights of the State Service of Quality have also been resolved, and this is also very important. So we've settled all these questions. So, Andriy Volodymyrovich, I'm asking you to put in the Electoral Code 8321-d tomorrow, so that people will understand that, as of September 1, they will be decided not by Minfin through the budget and the Budget Code, but by the philosophy of what sets up the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and Science, the Ukrainian Committee of Sciences and Education, and, above all, by the people with whom we've dealt with this issue. Andrew Volodymyrovich, this is a big request. And the last. It's not about education, but, Andrew Volodymyrovich, even today in the Presidential Administration, people are going through things calmly. We can't get through and people can't get past the Supreme Council because the police won't let people in. I'm sorry, it's all over now, the revolutions have ended, people have voted. Let's make sure that people walk quietly near the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u16	And they didn't ask for these certificates. How does Parliament differ? If there is any danger, please, we must protect ourselves, but when the environment is calm, why do police not miss people? So I'm talking to you, and I think it's up to you, so let's make sure the police stop controlling the passage of ordinary Ukrainians near the building of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Ungurani Pavel Jakimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u18	Praise Jesus Christ! Dear colleagues, I want to bring us back to this subject with which I have the honour of speaking from our high rostrum over the last few years. Because unfortunately, we're very often behind political battalions -- we're forgetting that all these famous reforms that we have to do, all of this great legislative work, the work of executive power, the work of power on the ground, the function of Ukrainian society in general, are only about one thing -- that Ukraine lives and wins. But today we have a question. Why? Because Ukraine is rapidly, rapidly, rapidly shrinking, people are simply not born. The dynamics of birth, of mortality are incredible. Colleagues, who die about 1 thousand 600 people each day, are born of about 900 babies, which means that every day, according to the biological evidence alone, Ukraine reduces by about 700 people, about 700 people. This is 220-230,000 people every year. If we add another 8 percent to this dynamic before the previous year, we can lose 250,000 people this year just by biological indicators. Colleagues, do we hear what this is about? If we add migration, labour migration, student migration, then the question is, what happens to the country that will be with our nation? And so the issue of birth, demographics, strengthening the family institution becomes a matter of national security and the survival of Ukraine as such. Dear colleagues, we have to call on the new President today, all his experts and all the people on his team -- this is a question that we have to bring to the highest debate of the state. We must support the family’s institution, we must ban all efforts to destroy birth, reduce birth, protect motherhood, childhood, the health of the Ukrainian nation. We have to do this. We have many families to help because, sadly, there are things to forbid free schooling in music schools today. How can you do that? You can't do that. You can't do that. We're trying to get the gay parades back in order to finally destroy family values. We call on all the nardepes to demand that these anti-family horror parades be avoided in the center of the capital. And one more thing. June 8th, next Saturday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u19	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u20	On June 8, about Saturday, the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations conducted a nationwide family - and - child movement. At ten o’clock in the morning, we all gather in Shevchenka Park and take a multi - thousand - dollar journey to protect our families and children. Praise Jesus Christ! And thank God for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u21	Thank you. Jury of Oksana Vasilivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! I want to turn to you today and talk about defense and security. I want to talk about this civilian dimension that we have to remember every day, namely the measure of security, is the North Atlantic Alliance, it's about NATO. Recently, on Monday, our delegation came back from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which only happens twice a year. But this is an important parliamentary diplomacy. It was in Bratislava this year that the spring session took place. I want to thank Boris Tarasyuk, who has joined in this important work, and we have been able to present Ukraine with dignity. The issue of Ukraine was on all committees. The Committee on Defence and Security had a clear theme raised by Boris Žiznevsky concerning Crimea regarding the Kerchny Strait and the liberation of our wartime sailors. If we talk about a committee of civil measure and security, the issue of Ukraine is five years after the Dignity Revolution: what has happened, how we will move forward and what are the main challenges that await us. In addition, the coreporters were people who are directly in the process of creating peace and security for our nation today. I want to mention Jonas Ohman, the director, the Norwegian who set up an organization in Lithuania that helps the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This is the NGO that is today. Thanks to protecting our boys. Why? Because NATO is security. And in fact, a Nazi soldier is a Ukrainian soldier who has to protect Ukraine, but his armor, his protection system, has to do everything to save his life. We need to do a very good job with you today. Why is the key to the solution and security for Ukraine solely in cooperation with countries that signed a treaty in Washington 70 years ago, and this is the only protection system that guaranteed territorial integrity? We must be very well aware of our important role as parliamentarians. Because everyone has their own area of work -- whether it's parliament, whether it's the president, or the government. Both parliamentary and inter-parliamentary diplomacy often do the basic and important work that is not always noticeable. But three or four days have to be spent every weekend working for the country. It's hard to come and tell in the district. But in general, it helps everyone. Why? Because no one lives in a cap. As the previous reporter said, unfortunately, we are in a state of war every day. Every day we must remember that the future of our nation depends exclusively on us, each one of us who pays attention to it. For the time of the stones to be gathered and the time of the stones to be scattered. But we have to be very well aware that in all these streams every time it's a spiral that we go back to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u23	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u24	We need to draw conclusions and avoid making mistakes. We set our course today in the Constitution, the changes to the Constitution, the movement to the North Atlantic Alliance. We must continue to work, regardless of the electoral process, to change the political forces. The development, security and security of the country lie solely in the co-courage of developed democratic states. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u25	Thank you. Yvchenko gives the floor to Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u26	Thank you, Vadim Yvchenka, for giving me your word. I want to say that in the last two weeks two important petitions have appeared on the President of Ukraine’s website and on the Cabinet of Ministers’ website. And each of them is about a very important question -- it's about raising wages for health workers. I believe that these two petitions, which are now very actively signed not only by medical personnel but also by all Ukrainian citizens, are the last cry of the soul of Ukrainian medics. Because in Ukraine alone, the lowest of all budget workers is the wages for nurses, the wages for doctors, the salaries for paramedics. For three years, I, along with medical professionals, with medical associations, have demanded that the government raise medical tariff levels and stop bullying those who save Ukrainian lives every minute and hour throughout Ukraine in district, city and district hospitals. Every day in hospitals in Ukraine, fewer and fewer people are wearing white robes. On Zacarpata alone, 550 staff members are in need of medical personnel, 330 doctors who are lacking only in Zakarpata and 250 nurses. Imagine a nurse getting out of a child's resuscitation and going to work as janitors at private banks just because there's twice as much pay. So in Ukraine alone, doctors and nurses, paramedics receive the lowest average wage of 150 dollars per month, while in neighboring countries, 150 dollars are paid by health workers for one hour of work. So such humiliation leads to the fact that soon no one will be employed in Ukrainian hospitals. So this is exactly the result of an increase in mortality in Ukraine, which is the result of fewer and fewer births in Ukraine. And soon one part of the Ukrainians will go abroad, and the other part of the Ukrainians will be at the cemetery. And this is the result of this attitude towards health workers. Without doctors, there can be no medicine. Parliament has adopted an important law to raise the issue of salaries for health workers. This law has already worked for doctors in the primary chain. By July 1, however, Ukraine’s law required that salaries be raised for doctors in district, city, and district hospitals in the field of diagnostic services. But the government has not yet done anything to really implement this rule of law. And I will continue to demand with you, with the national MPs and colleagues who have done all they can to ensure that Ukraine adopts the laws in which it will truly be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u27	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u28	The laws that will deal with the issue of the approval of health insurance and the introduction of health insurance, and the question of how to deal with wages, have been resolved. So the government has the money it spends now on political advertising and billboards, with this money to raise the salaries of nurses and doctors all over Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u29	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm going to announce a closing list of speakers. Three more people will be able to perform: Galchenko, Ednak, and Ammelchenko. And that's three final performances. Please, Dobrenkov. Galchenko gives the word to Dobrenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u30	Alexander Doubenkov, Opposition Block. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that last week the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted, namely the Ukraine's Law on complete general secondary education. According to article 11 of the Constitution, the State provides for the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness, culture and tradition, the development of the ethnic, linguistic, cultural and religious identity of all indigenous peoples and national minorities in Ukraine. Instead, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the body of legislative authority, the only body of legislative authority, takes a decision that does not suit the interests of the entire Ukrainian people. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has once again taken the basis for a decision that partially embodies the separate provisions of the Ukrainian Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language", which provides for the obligation to teach in the system of general educational institutions in the state language without considering that a national minority may belong to the Ukrainians. In particular, in line with the provisions of this Law on general secondary education, Ukrainian citizens, small Ukrainian citizens who identify themselves as national minorities, can teach subjects in the national language of 40 percent of the 5th class, with an increase in the teaching of the educational programme to 60 percent. But this applies only to those national minorities whose language is recognized in the official language of the European Union. Once again, we see discriminatory positions that are actually ignoring the interests, legitimate interests of Russian-speaking citizens of Ukraine, which are made up of more than 9 million citizens. You know, this position is not only contrary to the Constitution, it is contrary to the European Charter of Regional Minorities or minorities. As Ukraine's national deputy, with my colleagues, I want to implement the principle of tolerance and multilingualism of the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian society, again. We strongly insist against these provisions of the Ukrainian General Secondary Education Act. We are firmly opposed to individual discriminatory anti-Russian, unconstitutional positions being embodied in this law in the same way as the Ukrainian Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u31	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u32	We've already prepared a constitutional application for the unconstitutional recognition of this Ukrainian Act on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. And if our proposals in that section are not taken into account during the second reading of the bill, we will also be preparing constitutional submissions and insisting on the unconstitutionality of these provisions, and we will insist that all languages of national minorities, including Russian, develop freely, be protected in Ukraine as required by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u33	The same as Ostap Volodymyrovich. Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich, please. Amelchenko gives the word to the head of the faction of Oleg Laishko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u34	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Head, I'd like to address you with the correct, as I think, offer. There's a tradition in Parliament that you welcome people's deputies in the morning on their birthdays. At the same time, our military personnel die on the front every day, protecting Ukraine. I propose the introduction of tradition in Parliament and the announcement of the names of our heroes who protect the country every morning to remember that we live in a country that reflects Russian aggression. Because in these soft parliamentary chairs, you forget what happens next. There's a war on Donbas. The occupied Crimea. And the mention of our heroes every day -- maybe it won't let the MPs forget what country we live in. Now I wanted to say a few words about yesterday's visit to Brussels. The President's first visit is an important visit to Ukraine. But what did we see? We didn't see what we expected from the new president of Ukraine. Zelensky did not have the courage to demand a review of the trade part of the Association Agreement in Brussels. Ukrainian national producers lose at least $8 billion a year because we cannot sell our goods to the European market. The most suffering of this is that of the farmers. Green as President, who would really want to overcome the era of poverty, increase the welfare of Ukrainians, would have to demand that Europeans review and abolish the degrading quotas for our national producers. Instead of shivering softly on the cheek, which apparently gave him pleasure, not really Greens on the cheek, but every Ukrainian so humiliatedly patted on the cheek, I'm shaking my dog on the cheek, and she likes it very much. But I don’t like it when Ukrainians are humiliated, but on the shoulders of less valuable people, they are flaunted, instead of giving favourable conditions so that national producers can sell their products, overcome the poverty of Ukrainians, raise the national economy, and give Ukrainian families money. Zelensky did not have the courage to demand a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, which blindly led Ukraine, in fact, to the default. In Europe today, gas prices are the lowest in three years. And to the Ukrainians, each of us, for 400 dollars more than 1 June, we have to pay for the gas. That's what blindly inconvenient implementation of the IMF memorandum leads to. So we demand that Greens cancel the government's decision to increase gas prices, initiate a review of the memorandum and lower prices for industrial producers. To review the agreement with the European Union to make money for our people, not to trade raw materials and cheap labor. And don't start.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u35	30 seconds. It's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u36	During a meeting with Hensek NATO, there was no mention of the need to implement the Budapest Memorandum. Ukraine has given up its third nuclear potential in the world -- the President is coming and getting pleasure from being hit on the back and on the cheek, instead of defending Ukraine's national interests, reminding us of every international meeting on the Budapest Memorandum, the restoration of the Ukrainian economy, the jobs for Ukrainians, the increase in wages and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u37	Thank you. So, colleagues, the speeches by the national MPs have been completed. I want to remind you that yesterday we began a review of the draft Law on Temporary Investigation Commissions and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is huge, more than 700 rights that we need to discuss. Yesterday we finished our discussion on Amendment 399. I now announce the continuation of the draft Law on Temporary Commissions and Temporary Special Commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (1098). And I invite you to the podium of Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kupryenka Oleg Vasilovich. And I also want to say that the first amendment we're going to continue to consider is Amendment 399. And I'd like to give you my word for an advert, the author of the Olenna Sotnik readjustment. Please, 399.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u38	Thank you. Good morning, Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. We continue to consider the bill on temporary commissions of inquiry. My 399, it refers to the proposal to remove such a standard from this bill at all, that it harmonizes information reports on the activities of the commission of inquiry and, in particular, reports that are contained in the media. I have to remind you that a temporary investigation commission can be created on various occasions. These are reasons that are of social interest. In fact, the temporary commission of inquiry in its work harmonizes order from the very beginning at the first meeting, including the order of disclosure. Depending on the subject of the interim commission of inquiry, this may be a completely different order. So I think it's totally pointless, it's groundless to limit the temporary commission investigators to such a standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u39	Please, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u40	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, proposals and amendments to the Bills are submitted exclusively to those articles that were voted on in the first reading. As for the text of the amendment, the amendment was amended to paragraph 10 of Part One, Article 6. Article 6 does not appear in the first part of paragraph 10. I can guess that this is an amendment to the 7th article, which is in the first reading, and it appeared because Mrs. Stotnik’s previous amendment wanted to rename all the articles. So the committee actually rejected this amendment by considering it and essentially, but I'm paying attention to the hall, that when you have an amendment written in the table to article 6, this amendment was actually up to the 7th article of the law. But it was rejected by her committee, because there are no 6 articles, and in the 7th article, the committee decided to leave it as it is: "Deployment of members of the commission of inquiry in connection with its activities." We consider it appropriate to be, because, when.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u41	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u42	So when the commission investigates either crimes or mention the Handzück case, what, you didn't have to go to the place and hold a committee meeting there? So the committee left that the expeditions should take place. If the committee correctly understood the substance of the amendment made by Mrs. Sotnik. The committee refused to exclude this rule from the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u43	Thank you. So I'm going to vote 399 people's deputies, Sotnik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:46:36]] For-30 The decision is not taken. It's 400. Olena Sotnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Strange how the committee itself cannot read its articles. Article. More specifically, part ten does not apply to shipping. And by the way, I also had a table of reasons for every amendment, which was about publishing information. But. Come on, let's go. Amendment 400, which refers, inter alia, to the amendment in part 12, is proposed by the text of a bill that proposes proposals for a draft act of the Supreme Council following the work of the commission in the text of the report. I can tell you now from the practice of, for example, working on our temporary commission of inquiry, we will propose amendments to a number of acts: both the Criminal Procedure Code, and the Criminal Code, and also legislation that ensures that journalists work. So this is going to be a whole list of TSC recommendations. Why it's limited by one act, I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u45	Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment on that basis. Again, I point out that this is in the text of Bill 7 of the articles and Part 12: "Approval of the report on the results of the commission of inquiry, the proposals for the draft act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." The Committee believes that the word "act" refers to any act of the Supreme Council, as stipulated in the Rules, which may be an act in the Supreme Council. And the law doesn't determine that it has to be solely one, so we think that either the act in one, or the acts in the set don't affect anything. The committee decided to leave it as it was written. Because the act of the Supreme Council is defined in the Rules, and the types of acts continue to be defined. So they left it as it was written in the first edition of the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u46	Thank you. I'll bet you 400. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:49:03]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 401, Captain. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. In this case, I suggested that the first part of article 35 of this Law should be deleted, which is the reference in paragraph 13. Honestly, I don't know, maybe I didn't read anything in the law, but where does it even have 35 articles? As far as I'm concerned, she just doesn't exist. Why you left this, I don't understand either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u48	Again, the question is that your amendment says, "In paragraph 13 of the first article 6." Article 6 does not contain paragraph 13 of Part One. And your point is, if there's really a reference in another article on 35 articles, I think that these technical remedies can be made after the law has been voted. But since the amendment is made in such a way that it has to be considered essentially where it needs to be found in the law and corrected, the committee rejected the amendment. Now, the reference to the 35th article is said to take into account, and we're going to correct it with technical law. Because it is probably not 35, and another article is to stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u49	I'll bet you a vote of 401. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:50:46.]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 402, Melnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u50	Honorary colleagues, part two of article 5, provide that meetings of the commission of inquiry shall be convened by the head and, in the absence of an alternate or a request of at least one fourth of its composition. However, from the practice of working as a college body, we know that very often either the head or the deputy ignores this right of one fourth. So I think the Council should be able to re-elect them in order to unlock the work in that case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u51	The committee rejected the amendment. We, the committee, feel that it is inappropriate to put it in the form proposed by the national deputy and left it in the first edition. For example, I would like to refer to a preliminary ruling, article 35, to Mrs. Stotnik so that there is no misunderstanding in the hall. There are 35 articles in the law, this is the chapter that we introduced on temporary, special temporary investigation committees, and there is a clear guarantee of the protection of labour rights, and that's where it's all prescribed. So Mr. Melnik's amendment was rejected by the committee, and in the previous one, I made it clear, no technical legal rights need to be made. Everything matches the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u52	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 402. The committee turned her down. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:52:35]] For-27 The decision is not taken. 403, Olena Sotnik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. 403 refers to clarification, especially limiting the possibility of inviting judges, but the invitation of judges can actually be effective because they are experts on certain issues. There is a need to limit from the point of view that only matters relating to justice are involved. Here, indeed, the interim commission of inquiry cannot interfere with the order and decision-making and the judicial decision-making process. As for any other issue where the judges are absolutely able to provide their expert assistance, such as this, by way of the above, regarding the invitation of experts, it would be absolutely appropriate here, as well as the need to insert, add, more specifically, the possibility of a notice in advance on the work of the interim commission of inquiry and the meeting of the persons invited. Because, again, this allows for their appearance in a temporary investigation. At a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u54	Please, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u55	The committee rejected the amendment and left it in the first reading. We think the word "as far as justice is concerned," well, is not entirely correct and narrows down, in principle, the extent to which they can tell the commission of inquiry, as they may know any data, information not only about the exercise of justice, but also about other issues. So we decided not to narrow it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u56	Thank you. So I'm betting on a vote of 403, the committee rejected it. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:54:37]] For-24 The decision is not taken. 404th. Don't insist. 405th. Don't insist. 406th. Don't insist. 407, Teteruk. Don't insist. 408th. Don't insist. 409th. Don't insist. 410. Don't insist. 411. Don't insist. 413. Don't insist. 415th, Captain. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 415 revisions. I propose to rephrase the order and the possibility of giving information to the head of the interim commission of inquiry, the secretary and the deputy. In particular, to determine that they can only provide information with limited access to the media, and all other information based on the logic of things and including the principle of publicity of the activities of the Supreme Council bodies and structural units, and including temporary investigation committees, I think it would be logical to give them the opportunity to provide all information in the media just to ensure transparency of the activities of the interim commissions of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u58	The above amendment was rejected by the committee, as the previous amendment to the Committee reads, it states that Article 6 is supplemented by the following: the commissions that follow shall report their activities through the publication on the official website of the Supreme Council of Protocols, the transcripts, the audio, the video recordings of the open sessions of the commission of inquiry, as well as the messages on the date, time and place of the public meetings. So this norm, it's already prescribed. And there's no need to duplicate it with a single line. So in fact, if, in fact, it's taken into account, the idea of your amendment, in the text of this amendment that I've just read.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u59	Thank you. National Deputy Sotnik, you insist on voting, right? No, it's not. All right, let's move on. Next amendment number 418. There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 419. Don't insist. 420. Don't insist. 424. Don't insist. 425. There's no insistence on a national MP. 426. Don't insist. 427. Don't insist. 429. Don't insist. 433. 433. Don't insist. 434. Please, People's Deputy Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u60	434 is purely editorial. "Involved," "predicted" can be referred to as allocations. The person, the people are engaged, predicted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u62	Well, the committee advised, it's a stylistic amendment, and they decided to leave it in the first reading. The committee believes that this is more correctly worded, so it rejected your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u63	Thank you. 400. Do you insist on voting? Okay, let's vote then. Please vote. Amendment No. 434 of the Mellnik People's Deputy. [[10:59:05]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 435. Don't insist. Next amendment number 437. Don't insist. 438. Don't insist. 440. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u64	I ask this standard to amend and foresee the duty of written reply, written confirmation of the participation of the person invited to work, the meeting of the interim commission of inquiry, the representative of the executive branch, the enterprise, the manager of the enterprise, the organization and so forth. I remember a few years ago we set up a task force to investigate tariff fairness, and then there were serious problems with the delay of senior officials participating in the relevant working group, where they orally informed us that they would come to the meeting and then avoid such participation. And unfortunately, we don't have documented facts to date when the head of Naftogazu refused to do so and so forth. Therefore, history would be extremely important to support their political responsibility for not participating in temporary meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u65	Please comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u66	The committee rejected this amendment on the grounds that there is an abuse: a written message, how? The Commission has to accept these documents, it has to send them by mail, it has to send them back with a description of the deposit. And here I am as a lawyer, let me put it this way, I can essentially assume that there might be a violation. I sent a letter, it was lost in the mail somewhere. And then what I'm told is the commission. The meeting has already passed, I say, so I have informed you in writing. And literally, when the person picks up the phone and says, "The commission, yeah, I'm, there, the deputy head, I'm telling you that I can't come because.".. They took it down to the incoming correspondence and recorded it. So we think that if something is written to report that someone is not coming, we can use these papers to put the commission of inquiry to sleep, and it will not do anything for the efficiency of the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u67	Are you insisting? Please, if you insist on voting, we vote. Vote. [[11:02:05]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 441. There's no insistence on a national MP. 442. Don't insist. 443. Please, 443.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u68	No, there's Lucenko Irina. She's not in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u69	443 amendments were rejected, and only the author of the amendment could take the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u70	It's not your repair, it's Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u71	444 revisions. The author does not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u72	But I can comment on 443, just to be clear. It suggested what was said in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u73	Please, the 443 amendment, comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u74	The committee turned it down because it's a "timely report." Timely is in an hour, in two hours, in an hour, in an hour, in an hour, or in a month? So the committee rejected it because it was improperly prescribed. And if there was an offer there in the daytime, that's understandable. I mean, the term has to be defined. And the question is early or urgent, you know how it can be dealt with in jurisprudence. So the committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u75	Thank you. And we're moving on to Amendment 446. There's no insistence on a national MP. 447. Don't insist. 449. Don't insist. 450, National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. 451. Don't insist. 452. He insists. Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Well, I realize that once again the committee didn't technically consider my amendment because it counted its numbering rather than the logic of the text structure I proposed. Nevertheless, I would still like to hear meaningful explanations, not technical ones, about my suggestions. In particular, the proposal is about what I propose to correct, that after the investigation is completed, there is no reasoned conclusion and proposal, and that is the result of any temporary inquiry committee's work. And no other documents are actually a temporary commission of inquiry. The report may already contain reasoned conclusions and suggestions. It looks like it's technical, but the point is, it's a very important thing. Because we understand that the legal result of the work of the interim commission of inquiry is the only one: the report and its presentation in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u77	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u78	On the idea of amendment, I agree with the author of the amendment. But I point out that the committee does not have its own numbering of articles in the bill. There's a numbering in the first reading. The bill, which was adopted in the first reading, is presented in the articles of the bill, which was first read. And when a national MP makes an amendment and initially changes the number 2 to 3 and then then renumbers the entire bill in the text, that's not entirely correct, and that's the kind of amendment that should not be considered. But the committee has carefully considered every amendment in this case, since you did not find it in the text of your proposal, and you did not come to the committee to hold your position, so perhaps it was lost in the discussion, although the idea itself is in principle correct, but even if it remains in the text in this article, it will have no further effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u79	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. Amendment number 452. [[11:06:33]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 453. He insists. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Amendment 453. I take my logic into account, however, that if the work of the interim commission of inquiry falls, for example, in the last months of the Supreme Council's office or there are time-bound elections, such as in our case, and some temporary commissions of inquiry are working so as not to lose their work, jobs and materials, I have in previous amendments proposed the possibility for the newly elected Supreme Council to continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry, of course, to start a new set-up, but the same as the subject of the transfer of these materials. And so if this logic were to be accepted, my amendment was that, in the event that a temporary commission of inquiry was completed and stopped, they could be continued on the very basis that the Supreme Council would adopt, the newly called one, would decide to create the same temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u81	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u82	The interim commission of inquiry does not exist and cannot work without the composition, that is, without the national deputies of Ukraine. In the process of putting an end to the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies, any commission of inquiry is terminated. Unable to continue, only a new commission can be created. There are no questions and objections to being re-created in the new Council by the commission of inquiry on the same grounds, which we discussed and concluded with Mr. Capplin, that we should be able to create commissions on the same issues, there are no warnings about going to the archives and taking the materials of the commission of inquiry that did not even work to the conclusion, and these materials were based and used in the course of the investigation. So I don't think this amendment is appropriate, it's rejected. Although it does say that there is no point. But I essentially explained why it should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u83	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Next amendment number 454. There's no insistence on a national MP. And amendment number 455. Don't insist. Next amendment number 456. Don't insist. 457. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u84	Thank you. In fact, it's an important question about the order of work and the ability to draw conclusions, comments, and any comments and suggestions made by members of the interim commission of inquiry. It is now proposed that all these observations, conclusions, and suggestions be made by members of the commission of inquiry in writing and transmitted to the head of the commission of inquiry through the secretariat or, directly, with the necessary registration in the established order. I think there's something about simplifying this order, because formalization never helped. For example, even in the case of our work as a temporary investigative commission, there is now an internal order through the head office, and this greatly simplifies the work of all members of the commission of inquiry, does not violate their right to full participation, no matter what faction they represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u85	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u86	In fact, this amendment is suggested to regulate how to store documents in a safe, under seal, under a key, and so forth. I find it inappropriate in law to prescribe what each individual commission can do by making a decision at its meeting, how it will work with documents that are stored and given. To write in a law that only has to be safe, and then a year later, the word "safe" will disappear from the Ukrainian language and there will be a safe, and we'll have to change the law again. So we think it's an amendment, it's inappropriate to prescribe it in law, all of these legal relations, let's say, to work with documents, they can be regulated by the internal decisions of the commission during its work. Therefore, it is suggested that we reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u87	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Let's move on. 459 revisions. There's no insistence on a national MP. 460. Don't insist. 462. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Dear viewers! I don't insist on voting on this amendment, the standards I proposed, they were included in the bill's structure in the committee's drafting. I'm very, very grateful for the fact that out of 80 percent of all my proposals, the committee used it. An objective, democratic approach in the work of the parliamentary body. But I wanted to comment on my previous draft. It is vital that every official whose law obliges him to witness on a temporary commission of inquiry be documented, in writing, on the basis of his nonparticipation or participation in a meeting of a commission. I've got a Social Security Committee where I call the Minister of Social Policy of Revou, who doesn't come in on the 20th, 30th, 40th time to talk about subsidies, pensions, wages, there in his admission, he's refused to go on a mission somewhere. That's the impression that he's just constantly living on a mission, he's a foreign minister, not a minister of social policy. And it would be very good if we had a document from him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u89	30 seconds. Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u90	Yes, I'm done, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u92	And it would be very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u93	Please turn on the microphone for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u94	And it's very important if we had a document from every clerk, a high-holder, a written document that would justify his not being part of the board. It's important for history, it's important for future court cases, it's important for certain procedural actions as a result of decisions made by the interim commission of inquiry. This is particularly important when it comes to the responsibility of the President of the country, where there are nuances and secondarys in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u95	Please comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u96	The Supreme Council is the highest government body in the state. And the High Council's task force is the prosecutor for all prosecutors and judges. And not to make a decision, especially an invitation to a board meeting, should be, not to say "punishment," but such consequences as ordering the tenth. So the committee decided this issue strategically. In the text of the bill, we prescribed such a procedure as an excuse. It's not the ghost, it's the one who took the hand and brought it. So we, in the rest of the world, are making changes to the National Police Act, and when such disgraceful officials do not go and respect the national deputies of Ukraine (and read: the Supreme Council; read: the people of Ukraine, who elect national deputies), so it will be appropriate to decide on the cause, the sending of documents to the National Police. There will come, excuse me, boys in pursuits, under white towels -- and that will be a shame when the ministers are led (not to say, in chains) to a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry. That's what I'd like to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u97	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u98	I don't think any of the ministers or officials after we adopt this rule and vote will dare not come to the challenge of the national deputies, the members of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u99	Thank you. Our next amendment is 464. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u100	Part of the first article 10 after the words "other documents" should be completed with the words "including audio and video recordings of meetings of the commission of inquiry." As we have agreed with you on the basic principles of organizing the work of the interim commissions of inquiry, and have determined that one of the most current, fundamental principles is not publicity, but publicity (let not publicity as I suggested, but publicity, as you have finally agreed), should and should ensure that we have the ability to publish the relevant decisions and the process of dealing with the issues on the panel through audio and video media. I think it's going to be absolutely right. And I think that this way of passing information on to taxpayers, our voters are expected from taxpayers and our voters. They would like to know exactly what is going on in the process of investigating a temporary commission of inquiry. Please place the data on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u101	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u102	The amendment was rejected by the committee for the following reasons. It's called "Keeping Documents." Audio and video evidence is evidence, not documents, so it's going to be a little bit contrary to the title and ideas of the article. That's why we didn't record it. Legally, it's going to be written so improperly if we write it down here. So the amendment was rejected, which in no way allows you not to store other evidence along with documents, such as audio, video files -- all the research materials, all the materials where the audio and video documents come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u103	Please put to the vote – insists the People's Deputy Kaplan – amendment number 464. Please vote. [[11:17:09]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 467. There's no insistence on a national MP. 468. Don't insist. 469. Don't insist. 471 amendment, National Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting? Please, 471 lashes. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have here just to make it clear that my 11th number is in accordance with the text of Law 12 of the article. And I think it would be necessary for a commission of inquiry to change the title of this article to "Approval of a commission of inquiry." This reflects more fully the content of the article itself and its paragraphs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u105	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u106	By form, the amendment was rejected, as was again the incorrect amendment with its own numbering of amendments, rather than the numbering of the bill in the first reading. And in fact, we have a chapter called "Approval of the Commission of Inquiry" and it's still an article on the rights of the commission of inquiry. From this point of view of "authority," "right" -- nothing really affects it. Authorization is actually a right. Article 12 clearly describes the rights of the commission of inquiry, so the committee decided to reject the amendment by leaving the "authority" in the title of the chapter, and the article is called "The Rights of the Commission of Inquiry."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u107	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Let's move on. Amendment number 472. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not insist on voting for this amendment, and I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to explain the importance of this bill. You have no idea how important a revolutionary and fundamental bill is now being considered. It's actually a mobile public prosecutor's office that mobilizes the efforts of the people's deputies, the expert environment, the necessary rules of law to investigate the most resonant cases that concern the President of the country in particular. And this debate, which is now going on the agenda, in which Mrs. Stotnik is involved, I, the other people's deputies, is important because we shed light on every norm, on every block of issues under this bill, so that the Ukrainians can understand what a unique, revolutionary, irreverent historical document is being considered, but there are not more than 100 people's deputies in the Ukraine once again. And that, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u109	Please let me finish for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u110	And it's just a disgraceful thing that MPs don't join the debate to discuss a bill that's so important that it's so hard to work with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking over every law, every rule. This is truly a historical document, which will be the work of the history of this country and fight against the use of the use of the law, the law, the Constitution, and the order of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u111	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u112	Dear listeners and viewers, distinguished national MPs, all who look at us and listen! In fact, we are considering a very important bill. And the absence of people's deputies in the room is an understanding that the amendments that were made, one thousand 600, should all be spoken in the Rules Hall. The Regulatory Committee has actually done a Titanic work, considered these amendments, and I think my report from this rostrum is therefore confirmed. Not just formally, but every word has been read, even those amendments that have not been properly implemented. Ask the Governing Body of the Supreme Council why it was announced that we would accept it on Thursday. Why? Because on Wednesday, you have to finish reading all these changes that are rejected, and you're not going anywhere. Yeah, maybe let's start with what we don't have to do 1,000 600 amendments to one sentence of 38 amendments, the word "a" is replaced by the word "and," and then we'll have a normal, high-quality piece of legislation. Let's start with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? National Deputy Capplin, are you insisting on the vote? Please vote. [[11:22:13]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 473, People's Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u114	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have to intervene in this discussion. My amendment actually changes one word, but I want you to know that in law school it is very often that one word can play a key role. It seems to me that the problem here and the discussion should be that, in fact, a professional committee that fully understands the essence of the bill, working, as you say, with every amendment, all of these thousands of amendments have been reworked, must have been assured by the Supreme Council in terms of the final content, as is the case in many European countries. When the committee has accepted the amendments, it has accepted a certain revision for the second reading, most of them discuss only conceptual things, not every amendment. So it's not even about going through the debate anymore, it's about ethics, including parliamentarians. And if we're serious, let's be honest. 300 plus national MPs registered, look at the vote on how many votes they vote for. And we're really pretending to be looking at a bill. Although it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u115	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Although we are actually taking the time with you to allow another majority of the national MPs to mobilize, as it is called, to vote tomorrow at a meeting, a plenary meeting. Although today it is the same plenary meeting. And they're supposed to be in the hall the same way. So let's be honest with our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u117	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u118	It's basically an amendment, isn't it? In fact, the amendment is proposed to replace the word commission "has the right" with the commission "authorized". The committee rejected the amendment. And I think "right" is the definition given in the law, well, it has the right to continue, you have the right to do that, that, that. The word "authorized" is someone's been authorized. If we write: The commission of inquiry is authorized, I have a question: Who authorized it? Law? Then we write, he's right -- everything's fine. The Supreme Council? Then you have to make a separate decision. On each commission, the Supreme Council authorizes the commission to do this, that, that. So in terms of me personally as a lawyer, I think the word "right" is more correct than the word "authorized," on the grounds that I have declared above.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u119	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Let's move on. Next amendment number 474. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u120	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. In this case, I'd like to pay particular attention, but once again, this is a change to article 12, not 11 to make it clear. Where the rights of the commission of inquiry are established. And, in particular, I am concerned that it has been prescribed in the current edition that information that constitutes a national or other protected secret is provided in an order established by law. Well, I think it was more correct to just write information with limited access and it's already properly justified, it's more accurate about all the information that is currently contained in various legislative acts, and there's a different way of accessing it. That would be more, in my opinion, correct from a legal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u121	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u122	The committee rejected the amendment. In large numbers, we have written in the text "information that constitutes a national or other protected secret" – including this formulation including information with limited access – "provided to be in the order established by law". All of it. There can't be any manipulation of that formulation, in principle. This is where it comes in with limited access, and another one with a secret griff. So anything that might not be for the general public, it's that sentence that we left out. So we're going to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u123	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. Then the next amendment is number 475. Please. Don't insist. 476th. Eight. Please, 478 amendment, National Deputy Helen Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u124	Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The 478 amendment refers again to the rights of the commission of inquiry, here 8 and 9 points state that the interim commission of inquiry will be able to appoint the necessary expertise and invite experts to the committee of inquiry, as well as 9 points to be involved in the investigation of officials of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the tax police, at the agreement of their leaders. It seems to me, colleagues, that this is a definite election, we're just going to make a complete mix of the powers of the legislature and the executive branch. What's more, taking over functions that are totally distinctly present to either the investigating authorities or the relevant expert agencies, well, there's no such thing as a temporary commission of inquiry. I am in charge of expanding the possibilities for temporary investigation committees, obliging officials to provide explanations, documents, and to appear at a temporary commission of inquiry, but I certainly do not need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u125	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u126	Thank you. But it is certainly not necessary to assume powers that are not inherent to the legislative body. It's not for me, it doesn't look realistic, first. And secondly, it will bring in a certain one again, I think, such an inadequacy in the work of the temporary commission of inquiry itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u127	Thank you. And I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u128	The following committees of the highest public authority should be such that both the prosecution, and the D.B.I., and the N.A.U.U., and all of them, all of them, are out there, and this is the highest investigation that can investigate everything and everyone. And if a person brings a phone record to the board, he says, well, you see, there John and Peter were talking about betraying the country. And he says it's not my voice. So what if one of them is the president? We need to assign an expert, perhaps, and determine whose voice it is. So, we're gonna delete it? Or if we need to involve a security officer who was involved in some hidden activity there, let's say he understood whether he was there or he saw it. So we're gonna make it impossible, too? So I don't think you can delete those items because they're going to narrow it down a lot, but read: they're going to lower the level of possibility and the level of confidence in the investigating committees of the highest public authority. I suggest we reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u129	Thank you. You don't insist on voting. Next amendment number 479. There's no insistence on a national MP. 480s. Don't insist. 481 amendment. A national MP does not insist. 482nd. Please, National Deputy Captain Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u130	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Again, for the sake of understanding, if someone is looking after the amendments, this refers to, the amendment, article 13 of the current edition, more precisely, adopted in the first reading, the duties of the commission of inquiry. In particular, to part one of the first paragraph, I propose that, in addition to the obligation to conduct minutes and transcripts of meetings, we also add audio and video-fixing sessions. Obviously, right now, we're, for example, preparing a report, and very often, protocols and transcripts aren't enough to reflect the information that was actually recorded during the interim commission of inquiry. Thus, at least we could be helped at least, especially at least by audio-fixing sessions. I'm already talking about the video. Ideally, it would also be very important for a temporary commission of inquiry to work on the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u131	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u132	The committee rejected the amendment. Well, from the situation. A commission of inquiry went to Herson to hold meetings. We need to get together and talk about something. And there's no video tools, audio to properly record it. What, don't run a commission? The transcript is a document. Question about the quality of the stenographers. Let's mention the last transcript of the President's meeting where the blocks were thrown out. This is already the responsibility of the stenographers who do this. And if you ask the question that stenographers who conduct stenographers of official meetings, including the investigating boards of the Supreme Council, if you've made a mistake, will be called to account so that the second time it doesn't happen. And as for audio and video writing, we can sometimes make it impossible to hold meetings, important board meetings, when there's no technical capacity to do that. Therefore, the committee proposes to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u134	Sure. Sure. But this is not appropriate. Then I'll explain where you can't make video and audio. If this is an official version, it should be made, not by a private cell phone, but by appropriate technical means. Then it will be proper evidence if the case is brought to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u135	I'm sorry, I have to comment. But then a professional stenographer needs to be taken with him to all the meetings. Well, it seems to me that it's much easier to include today's fixation devices -- whether video or audio -- and get material that can then be used to produce a stenogram.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u136	Well, then, a short line. We remember this saying: “The ax is cut off, so you will not write it with a pen. Remember, right, by perfumed? The document on the paper medium is a document. The document in the video and the audio -- someone says they're mounted again, someone says they're glued somewhere, something else. And when it's written like this and it's signed: the head of the commission and the secretary, it's an official document and proper evidence in a court of law. The committee's proposing a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u137	Please vote, please make up your mind. [[11:33:46]] For-25 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u138	I'll take it from here. Amendment 480. I am the author of the amendment. I know, yeah. I just want to go back because I know that it's already sounded here and I want to draw the attention of the committee's representative that, in fact, the authorities of the state or the bodies that are being created, again, the authorities of the state, they have powers, while the rights are being exercised by only natural and legal persons. And as far as the authorities are concerned, we can talk as much about their authority as possible and their responsibilities. And I'd like to make sure that the amendment that relates to the change of name, yes, that it is appropriate for it to be taken into account. I have this 480 amendment. I know that there have been adjustments from other national deputies. I would, after all, have advised the committee, before the final vote, to take these amendments into account throughout the text. Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u139	The committee can no longer include anything in the text or outside the text. We're going through the second reading procedure: we're now looking at all the amendments, we're going to vote in the room or we're not going to vote. We can go back, although this does not correspond to the Rules, but we often do so: before the final vote, we return to the amendment. But from the point of view of the same jurisprudence: rights are defined, and powers are given. We write a law that defines the rights of the commission of inquiry, not the authority. Although we can argue about it, the point is that it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u140	It's actually changing to a large extent. Because rights are what a person and a natural or a legal person has, and authorization is really what a law gives to any body or body.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u141	Then there's another line. Then there's another line. Let's think about 106 articles of the Constitution. It says, "The President of Ukraine," "The President of Ukraine" or "The President of Ukraine" or "The President of Ukraine" or "The President of Ukraine" or "The President of Ukraine" or "The President of Ukraine" or "The President Is that a right or an authorization?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u142	Authorization.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u143	Well, then. So we don't have in the Constitution sometimes what it is, what it is -- rights or authority. And we're here breaking the writings, which is what we're going to call an article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u144	Thank you. I think the task of us as law makers is to develop even the gaps that have been allowed and move on. Thank you. Next amendment number 484. We talked about 82nd. 84th. Please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u145	Thank you for the opportunity, wonderful discussion. But still, as I went back to dijitalization, I thought, well, we all agree with that principle. And, you know, I can tell you a story from the practice of even working our now temporary commission of inquiry. I'm supposed to sign all the protocols as secretary. So just because I have my audio records, I can control those protocols. And otherwise you can't trust a human factor, it's always there, it's there. And that's why we have technology going forward in principle. So I completely disagree with the logic of the committee that rejected the previous amendment. And my application is also about providing a public line online video broadcast of the temporary commission of inquiry meetings, if these are not closed sessions. This also contributes to: (a) publicity, (b) transparency. And, thirdly, and crucially, the ability of society to monitor the work of a temporary commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u146	I would like a representative of the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u147	I would like to point out that what we went through is the fifth part of article 6. "At each meeting of the commission of inquiry, there is a protocol signed by the head and the secretary of the commission of inquiry and a transcript of the meeting. (Snap) According to the commission of inquiry, the session may be fixed by means of audio and video recording." That is, it is provided for in the law. We wrote that maybe the commission says, let's fix, vote, fix, there's possibility, there's technical means. And it's stored, everything can be done. But if we write that it is necessary, yes, sorry, if we need to get together and figure out a specific situation somewhere in the field, and there is no such meeting. So it's in the law, and it's already decided by the commission, it's done, and it's kept together with all the documents in the sealed safe, as prescribed in the law. So this rule is in the law, and I ask you to leave it as it is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u148	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 484 of the People's Deputy, Elena Sotnik. [[11:39:26]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 485, People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u149	First of all, I'd like to announce that there are 39 national deputies present. In the classroom where I was studying, there were more students in rural schools. The other one. I want to ask you to confirm an amendment that provides that the interim commission of inquiry has the right not only to receive documents and materials. And I have a very high expectation that the first interim commission of inquiry, which will be created by the next call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be a temporary investigation commission investigating illegal equipment in the oil and gas sector, namely an increase of virtually four times the size of tariffs for ordinary Ukrainians. And then, with the materials involved. "Ukrainian Naftegaza", illegal. the target surplus, Naftogazu revenue, rent payments, other overstatements, including the fictitious overrun of the expenditure of the companies concerned, we can get the price of gas for the population to be smaller. That's the essence of this bill's relevance. He will consider the most important, most resonant matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u150	30 seconds, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u151	And I very much hope that the next convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will address this issue, which is what is most important to Ukrainian citizens today, because 46 percent of Ukrainian citizens spend 46 percent of Ukrainian citizens' income. is spent on municipal payments, and the remedies proposed by the people's deputies, me, Stotnik, others, are very important for the structure of this bill, for its legal purity and functionality. And detail is one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u152	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u153	The amendment suggests that the commission should be allowed to consult documents (through whom) related to the subject matter. Dear colleagues, the commission is sitting. Works with papers, documents: statements, reports, conclusions, and so on. We write, "materials." And what, are we going to draw an oil barrel from Naftegazu, or is it a gas balloon, or is it the remains of a body found at the scene of a possible crime? So let's make a law, but not overload it with words that, in principle, well, let's say, will not properly describe the commission's procedure. Then let us write: materials, fluids, gases, and other solids. And so on and so forth. There are papers, we work with them. The commission requires, the commission examines, on the basis of this, concludes, interrogates witnesses, makes protocols to these, and everything is normal. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u154	Do you insist on voting? Okay, let's vote. [[11:42:51]] For-19 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u155	Next amendment number 486. 486th, National Deputy Siroid and Berezauk. I will also allow myself to draw the attention of the committee to the fact that our task is to clear Russians from the texts of the bills that we are considering in Parliament. Unfortunately, it's inevitable, but I think the more we take it, the better. And one of them is the word "relationship." It says, "Get acquainted with documents that have a bearing on the subject of investigation, get copies of them." The proposal was editorial: actually replacing this Russianism with "have a relationship" with another term "applicable." So it's supposed to read, "Get acquainted with documents relating to the subject, get copies of them."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u156	In this case, even though the committee has rejected this amendment, but judging from your explanation now, why this is the way it is done, I support it. And I think it needs to be done with technical law because it's basically a stylistic amendment, it doesn't apply to the substance of the bill at all. And as for clearing the Russians out of documents, I fully support it. I'm asking you not to put her to the vote, but to make a technical legal order, in the final version, to replace those words.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Then we'll try to take this into account in the vote as a technical legal order. Let's move on. Amendment number 487, National MP Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u158	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I really think Oleg Vasilovich, to your attention, that in the final vote we should go back to the 480, 482, which was proposed by both Mrs. Helena and Mrs. Oksana. It's logical enough to take them into account. And as for the very ideology of the law, the TSC is really part of Parliament -- arm, leg or whatever, head -- a tool that is used when the inactive executive power is used. Otherwise the TSC would not have been created, otherwise the attention of society and parliament would not have been attached to certain resonant killings or those or other events involving the theft of state property. I think that the pending cases are both Vasil Tretecsky and Jaroslav Babic and Hennadia Tsukanova and Sergey Lichman and the people, officers and soldiers who are now in prison in Ukraine for taking responsibility for their duty to protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u159	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u160	This is the kind of thing that requires attention, the control of the highest legislative body in Ukraine. I think that's the kind of ideology that replaces executive power when it's incapable of coping with its function, and that's what it is, and it's prescribed in this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u161	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u162	Well, repairs, repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u163	Counted, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u164	Counted. This is our amendment, committee. I'm paying attention to an honourable colleague, in fact, the investigating commission of the highest public authority is already the cry of the inactivity of the law enforcement authorities. When they don't do anything, then the Supreme Council creates a commission of inquiry on both the President's impeachment and on another matter. And the commission's investigators, once again, have to stand at such a height that neither the Henprocurator's office, nor the S.B.I., nor the N.A.P.A., nor the N.A.C.C., together, nor the D.B.I., together. That's when it's going to be an effective tool.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u165	Thank you. We don't put this amendment to the vote. Let's move on. Amendment 488. National Deputy Captain, don't you insist? Please, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u166	Thank you for the opportunity. Olena Sotnik. Considering that there are 3 or 4 people here who are sounding their amendments, there is an opportunity to actually talk conceptually about things. I'm going back to your comment, a comment on behalf of the committee that the law once again does specify the order in which the fixation is to be carried out, that the interim commission of inquiry can determine for itself this order of fixation of the meeting, of the information. Why am I insisting on this? Because the correctness of the display of information is very often influenced by the conclusions that the interim commission of inquiry can make, and, above all, what will then result from the publication of its report? So I clearly believe that in those temporary commissions of inquiry, where, for example, in a coalition, most of the votes of the national MPs in the commission, any definition of "maybe," "makes it so" -- it's all dangerous. Because it's obvious that coalition representatives will always protect themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u167	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u168	Thank you. It will protect the possibility of, well, as much as possible, closing all possible information, and no one will additionally fix it or create a prerequisite for full and objective reflection. That's why they had those guarantees. they were prescribed in the law, not handed them over to a temporary commission of inquiry. Once again, this does not give independence to the conclusions of the interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u169	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u170	Well, it's not essentially a considerational amendment, let's say, it was a speech now, but essentially the principles of the commission's work. Well, it's a shame that educated professionals, people, lawyers, I'm the lawyer of this environment myself, and I realize that, really, lawyers with capital letters, they understand these issues. But this discussion wasn't supposed to be here, it wasn't in this room, it was supposed to be on the committee, but maybe even before the committee meeting. And then we'd get to the right balanced decision. You see on your part the threat that maybe someone won't record a video, audio, I see on my part that there are threats that the commission will be somewhere and they will say, and you can't record anything and you can't do it. So the question is questionable. The law states that the commission can do so and make decisions. And I understand that, well, everyone understands that the decision will be to record video and audio when there is a possibility and when there is no possibility that the commission can't sit down? Mrs. Olena, I understand what this is about. So I don't deny that we have to do this, we have to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u171	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u172	And on a large scale, when we have this formulation in the law that can make decisions, and we can say, when we create a commission, that all audio and video sessions are recorded in the creation decree. And it won't be a violation of the law either. But writing clearly is what you do just so that it can only get in the way of something -- it's also not quite right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u173	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. Amendment No. 488 of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik. [[11:50:43]] For-25 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 490. There's no insistence on a national MP. 491. Don't insist. 492. Don't insist. 493, People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u174	Conceptually, it's the same addition to the rule of law when we expand the list of types of materials, documents that a temporary commission of inquiry can use. As a lawyer, I'll give you an E.R. Ukraine's Information Act, as well as the international standard ISO and DSTU of Ukraine, defines a very narrow circle of documents that can be defined. materials that can be defined as documents. And in order to expand the potential amount and scope of materials that a properly temporary commission of inquiry may involve in its work, we need to set out in parallel the term "materials" that is of wider importance, a broader lineage of types of media for transmission. The other one. It's unacceptable, I'd like to support my colleague, Captain, the unacceptable delay in adopting the rules on the divisalization of this process, the compilation of information on the conduct of the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u175	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u176	and reporting to Ukrainian citizens, taxpayers, on the course of such an investigation. We know very well how we conducted the temporary commissions of inquiry so far. Most in the Supreme Council form the majority of the members of the commission. They are determined to be in good order, and they hide forever the resonant matter that is forgotten after six months. This should not be allowed in the future in the work of temporary investigation committees under any circumstances. It should be built on Euro-Atlantic models of investigation that are used in the United States and Europe. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u177	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u178	As a lawyer with an almost red diploma, you yourself said that yesterday, I'll explain that under the word "document" you mean an electronic document. That's exactly what you're talking about. And the committee left the word "documents" in the first edition, so that, under the word "materials," it didn't turn out to have to bring almost some sort of evidence. If such evidence is to be provided, criminal investigation materials will be investigated, and the evidence of the matter is called by the commission of inquiry and asks what is there, what is it, where? And we're going to get to that point right now, except that we're going to delete, inspect, let's do a camera to hide the evidence. Come on. In fact, if you make such amendments, you have to write in the preamble to the law the definition that in the sense of this law is "documents" and "materials." And again, I repeat, a person with almost a red diploma didn't do it, but you take one word and you insert it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u179	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u180	The principle of a comprehensive and complete investigation will have to be present in the work of the commission of inquiry, but in the case of legal activity, if you make amendments that break the structure of the law, you or you make a systematic amendment, if you "materials" indicate, write down the definition of what it is not to attract, excuse me, once again, word evidence from the crime scene on the committee and consider how it smells or smells there, and then make such amendments. The committee rejected, left behind "documents," referring to what I had told you before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u181	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:54:54]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 494. There's no insistence on a national MP. 495. Don't insist. 496. Don't insist. 497 revisions. People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u182	The conceptual amendment, which is part of an integrated approach, to reinforce such a bill with rules on publicity, sub-control and other aspects is suggested by me to add the word 'in writing."in writing form." And the second. This is in your approach and in sync with your approach to mandatory written documentation. But I want to let you know, if you don't know, and if you haven't been informed, it's probably in such a sleepy environment that the Avatar movie is the most cashier in 30 years, filmed on a mobile phone. Unfortunately, a temporary commission of inquiry in Herson cannot be recorded on a mobile phone. You're told that the previous president or today's president, Zelenski, won the election via cell phone in most of the Ukrainian politics. And in Herson.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u183	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u184	And in Herson, a temporary investigator commission can't, unfortunately, go through, lock up on a modern cell phone, respectively. If you don't have the money to equip a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council's apparatus with appropriate media, then let the Radical Party refuse the hundreds of millions of dollars that taxpayers pay as factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its activities, which it spends on its public advertising campaign, and give it to the interim commission of inquiry, and they will be equipped with modern means, mobile fixation tools.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u185	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u186	As deputy head of the regulatory committee, I demand that the chairman turn off the microphones when some populists move on to political slang and start pianising here. I'm essentially explaining the amendment. Paragraph 5 of Part One of Article 12 after the words “receive” add “in writing”. Excuse me, when the commission calls the person and gets an explanation from him, so it asks the question and the idea of the author of the amendment waits for the official to write them the answer in writing. A very professional approach to the work of the commission. The committee proposes to reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u187	You insist. Please vote. [[11:58:12]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. And the last amendment to break, amendment number 498. People's Deputy Capplin. But I'm asking essentially for an amendment, as the committee representative has addressed you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u188	Basically, it's a fix. The changes are proposed to include, as experts and investigators, in the work of the interim commission of inquiry, individual public officials. Actually, if we're talking about the philosophy of this bill and how it works, I'd like to make a point. The more, more precisely, the less we will allow the people's deputies of today's vocation, the future, through one, to consider one or the other definitions, one or the other terms, one or the other, the better. Because the Ukrainian national MP will always be guided by his own motivation – whether political or something else. And that's why we're in this law, which is why I'm sore about both my colleague, Captain, and the other national deputies, we're trying to write everything down into detail, to the nuances, the legal route of investigation within the commission of inquiry, so that no national deputy, any interested faction can influence and distort in general the course of the relevant proceedings and the follow-up activities of the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u189	Thank you. Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u190	Especially if this applies to investigating the activities of the President of the country. Once again, there can't be any trifles here. There can't be any nuances here. Everything has to be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u191	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u192	In addition to the experts, it is suggested that a committee of inquiry should be convened by representatives of the public. Not the public representatives, you didn't read your amendment, the public. I have a question. Where does the law determine who this is? I can guess what I'm going to do is take public activists, bring them to the committee. Why? The commission listens to experts who can give professional explanations, advice, a witness, not gather and turn it into "talk." The commission of inquiry should not be allowed to be loaded by representatives of the public. Interestingly, how will the public present representatives — at meetings, at assemblies, at conferences, on the street, or by simple voting? In fact, the Ukrainian people's deputies are, by definition, representatives of the people of Ukraine. And there are already representatives of the public in the person of the Ukrainian national deputies who are members of the commission of inquiry. It's suggested to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u193	Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[12:01:17]] For-22. The decision is not taken. We've stopped at Amendment 498. The next amendment is 499. And now, according to the Rules, I'm going to call it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our work. And I'm going to ask you to invite a representative of the committee to continue working on the amendments. And to invite the people's deputies, we'll continue in a few minutes. We're continuing our work. Amendment number 500. We'll go back to 500 and 501. And now 502. There's no insistence on a national MP. 530th. Don't insist. 504th People's Chamberlain. You remember, in fact, the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u195	Paragraph 9 of Part One of article 12 after the words "Ministry of Interior of Ukraine" should be supplemented by the words "National Police of Ukraine." And I'd like to take this opportunity to make an observation, an honourable representative of the regulatory committee. I think it's anomalous when I'm a member of the regulatory committee. You're supposed to be the deputy or the first deputy, aren't you? It calls on the national deputies of Ukraine to participate selectively in meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Trust in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is zero because the deputies of the Supreme Council do not go to work. And at that time, simple milkmaids, your voters, tractors can't leave either the field or the farm or their other jobs, never. Because they're about to be expelled from work for an article you know. Therefore, MPs, like other common people, should go to work and serve here, in workplaces, to ordinary Ukrainians. It should be dogma and you have no right to claim that they cannot walk. I'm even shocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u196	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u197	Two parts of the comment. First of all, the National Police is part of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so it's not appropriate to add, "The National Police of Ukraine, the Montenegrin National Police Department, the Kiev Police Department." And so on and so forth. So the committee turned it down. As for the second political part of the remark, to me personally. I didn't call, so I'm calling your attention, so read the transcript, and I've explained that the inappropriate organization of the work of the Supreme Council by the leadership of the Supreme Council leads to people not going into the hall. And it's us, the Radical Party of Laska, who advocates reducing the number of national MPs to 250 to make sure that dissidents who don't go to work aren't here. And it was those who were working on the drafts and doing their work. To ensure that both milkmaids and tractorists and your common people see that it is necessary for everyone to work in the same way and to bear the same responsibility for failing to perform his duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u198	Are you insisting on voting on your amendment? No, it's not. Next amendment number 505. There's no insistence on a national MP. 506 revisions. Don't insist. We'll be back by 507.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u199	Why are we going back to this? If the person has not come to work, why are we going back? Let's go back to everyone who's turned away and not in the audience. 12:38, sorry, well, 5 minutes, I understand, the man was delayed. But eight minutes, if a person insists on his position, he should come and know that the amendment is being considered. That's not entirely true of you. I understand there's a 1-y, a 2-correction when we started saying that maybe he's late. But it is no longer too late, has not come to the workplace. Then let's do it in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u200	Mr. Committee Representative, I will take this decision by exercising my headship. Thank you for your input. 508th. Don't insist. 509th. Don't insist. 510th. Please, National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u201	I propose that paragraph 1 of Part One of Article 13 after the words "stenograms of meetings" be supplemented by the words "and publish them in an established order." Ideologically or conceptually, under this bill, we must foresee the possibility of publicity or, as we agreed, publicity, namely, reporting to taxpayers of taxes to our voters on the course of investigation and the results of investigations based on documentation that will take place in accordance with the rules of the current new law. This time. And the second. Please vote on the amendment. And the second. I would like to thank you, Mr. President of the Radical Party, that you are alone today heroically in the House of Parliament of the Radical Party present at the meeting. One and only. Just like the Fatherland and other political forces. One at a time. Imagine one person from a faction. When it comes to the fate of the president of the country, the temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u202	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u203	The amendment is rejected on the grounds that some national MPs, who make very many amendments, are casually referring to their duties and disrespecting other colleagues because they do not read the law altogether. In fact, the word "generally." And they don't notice that in the preceding articles, by the way, we talked about it, so it doesn't just come out that they don't read, and they don't listen to what's going on in the room, except for their performances. It says here that the commission of inquiry reports on its activities by publishing on the official website. This standard is already foreseen. Using modern technology, the 21st century, we will publish electronically on the website instead of printing on a typewriter. That's the norm. And as for the second observation, I'm sorry, one of the Kuprienkos from the Radical Party will replace 38.5 of your team's common people. So it's okay here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u204	Thank you. Please vote. Amendment number 510. [[12:41:39]] For-16 The decision is not taken. We have the opportunity to go back to the amendments, now to specify, 500, 501 and 507, the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik. 500-a, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u205	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for the opportunity and for returning to my arms. 501 correct, 500 won't insist. It's a very important readjustment here. Again, I will remind you that according to the numbering of the committee, we are talking about article 12. In particular, I suggested that it be complemented by a separate duty of a temporary investigative commission that if the commission of inquiry showed signs of a criminal offence during its work, it would have appropriate information to be transmitted to the Attorney General's Office in accordance with the established Code of Criminal Procedure. Why is this important? I can tell you from the work of our commission. When we discovered facts, such as the destruction of evidence or the abuse of a position of service, or the concealment of a crime, the only thing we could say was to demand a written response. But in fact, the ideal outcome of finding such facts would be to violate criminal conduct and be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u206	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u207	The committee rejected the amendment. I think we already have the law. And the Constitution has an obligation to report crimes, and it is enshrined in the Criminal Procedure Code, and there is even an article in the Criminal Code for deliberate ignorance of crime. So I think it's settled. And to load this law again, to remind you that you are looking at it, there is a responsibility, so you must report the crimes – we consider it inappropriate. Any person who has seen that there are actions that have signs of a criminal offence under the Constitution as a citizen of Ukraine is obliged to report it to the relevant authorities. And if one of the deputies or members of the commission, I don't want to offend anyone, but sometimes he writes a parliamentary statement that I'm asking to conduct a trial without asking for information in the GDR, it's also not entirely correct, so he doesn't bring in or carry out any investigations, he doesn't respond because they also have a lot of work, because they also have a lot of work to do. And sometimes they simply do their job improperly, so that is the case. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u208	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u209	Accordingly, the 214th KPC of Ukraine is obliged to bring any report of crime to the GDR, to check and then to either close or not close. And we're usually checked, they say, well, there's no reason to bring people to the GDR, people don't go to court, they commit courts, and they go all the way around. So if you do everything by the letter of the law, so this amendment, well, it's overloading the law and it doesn't have anything at all, let's say, a sense of exertion in this law. So the committee rejected her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u210	Do you insist on voting? Please vote, 501 amendment. [[12:45:15]] For-19 The decision is not taken. And amendment 507. Are you going to insist? Please, 507th, please, please, National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u211	Thank you. The 507 amendment is to article 14 of the first draft of this bill, which refers to the mandate of the head of the commission of inquiry. There are a number of technical suggestions here, but the key proposal is to make changes to paragraph 13 of this article, which describes who will report to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. In fact, it is absolutely not necessary for the head of the interim commission of inquiry to be the reporter for the report. I think that, on the contrary, it doesn't have to be defined in the law, because the commission can identify another reporter, and in this case it would be worth at least giving this discretion. So I suggested that if the commission made that decision, there might be someone else to report. This is very often well - founded. First of all, it's not always the head of a temporary commission of inquiry that can be on the spot, for example, a service assignment, that's not the basis for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u212	Please. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u213	This is not the reason for the report, absolutely. Because above all, social interest must play a role. One second. Very often, for example, in the work of a temporary commission of inquiry, there are specific experts from a particular point of view, or from a political point of view, for example, a person initiates a temporary commission of inquiry and deals with the subject, but is not appointed head of a temporary commission of inquiry, because it is either uncomfortable, for example, for the same coalition, or, well, just from that point.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u214	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u215	The committee rejected the proposal because the chairman of the commission, he organizes the work, he has to be present at each meeting, he knows that where and how it happened, and the same rule says he reports the conclusions and proposals approved by the commission. So in fact, the head comes out and reads the text that's approved by the commission and is responsible for it and can answer the question later, because he knows everything as it was. He's an organizer, he organizes all the work, he manages all the processes and all the events. That's why we think it's the right norm, that it's the head who's responsible for the organization, and it's his responsibility to hold the answer in front of the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u216	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[12:48:21]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 511. Don't insist. 512. Don't insist. 514. Don't insist. 516. Don't insist. 517. Don't insist. 518 amendment, National Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u217	No, I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u218	The next amendment is 519th. Please turn on the microphone. National Deputy Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u219	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Again, in order to understand and simplify the logic of my report, this is the amendment to article 16 of the first edition, the first reading that sets out the basis and order of the work of the secretary of the commission of inquiry. Well, here, in principle, as secretary for today's commission of inquiry, I know very well the specifics of this work. And I suggested that the article should be completed in part one, in particular that the secretary of the commission of inquiry should be elected at the first meeting of the commission of inquiry by secret or open voting by a majority of the composition of the commission of inquiry approved by the Supreme Council. Well, renumber the articles accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u220	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u221	An amendment has been rejected by the committee, since this article, in principle, defines the rights or authorization, and so on and so forth, the secretary of the commission of inquiry. It is not the order of his choice or appointment, that is, his authority. We therefore feel that this article did not have to be amended with regard to the selection of a secretary. And in those articles that regulate the organization of this commission itself and in accordance with the approval of the Supreme Council’s decision to set up this commission. So it's rejected, it's rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u222	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote, 519 amendments. [[12:50:34]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Amendment 520. Don't insist. Next amendment number 524. Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u223	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Again, 524 amendments apply to the Secretary of the Commission of Inquiry. I had, by the way, the same logic had previous head and head changes, where I advocated the possibility of converting them to a meeting of the Supreme Council. Because there are different cases. And in this case, with regard to the secretary of the commission of inquiry, I also propose in law that he be re-elected at the hearing of the commission of inquiry by a majority of its composition. There are also organizational issues, just the simplest way a person can do this job because he can't load his own. I realize that there are different circumstances, so I would like to be able not to block the work and work of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u224	Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u225	The committee rejected the amendment because we believe that if a person has already gone to work on a commission, he has accepted the same secretary’s office, so he must do the job according to his obligations. And the situation where the secretary refuses to perform the duties imposed upon him when he approves the composition of this commission is somehow not very consistent with the name of Ukraine’s national deputy. So the committee decided to reject and leave the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u226	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[12:52:38]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 525. Don't insist. 530. Don't insist. 531. People's MP, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u227	Thank you for the opportunity. 531 revisions. Well, there are some interesting things that are proposed for the members of the commission of inquiry and a certain function that they have set up for them, including in paragraphs 3 and 4, which allows the commission of the commission of inquiry to receive certain, for example, original documents or explanations. But it seems to me that in order for there to be no abuse, you know, there are different people and different national MPs, too, so that there is no abuse from this point of view that I am a member of the commission now going to someone there to inquire about information or to get written evidence without due cause, it would be worth noting that such functions are performed only on a written commission from a temporary commission of inquiry, then there will be no question that any member would abuse his or her status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u228	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u229	There are these rules in the text of the bill. The only thing that's not written is by written order. I don't see any problem here with the fact that if a member of the commission goes on his own by commission, that's the commission's commission, it's written in the minutes of the meeting. And it's a separate assignment, yes, it's a signature, maybe. There's an extract from the protocol of commissioning me as a member of the commission, what to do, I'm going with that extract of the protocol, and the question is off. That's why I think. And the committee rejected the amendment. We find it inappropriate to give birth to another document, namely, a written commission to carry out an act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u230	Please vote. [[12:55:03]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 532. People's MP, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u231	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Here the key part of the amendment is the right of the members of the commission to make their own or disagree with the conclusions of the report’s proposals, or other comments. And for example, right now we're preparing an appropriate report from the interim commission of inquiry. And once discussed, of course, the members of the commission will also be given the right to comment. But it cannot be infinite. That is, it cannot be done, there, or one of the members of the interim commission of inquiry, deliberately delaying, by abuse of this right, to provide an explanation. So I strongly suggested that they could do so within just two days of the date of adoption of the report and only in writing so as not to delay the reporting process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u232	The committee will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u233	Well, in this case, the committee didn't support this amendment, because if a member of that body at any of the meetings claims to have a separate opinion. First of all, it goes into protocol, and he says, I have a separate idea, I'm going to teach it. It's in the protocol, it's added to the protocol. And limit that to two days. What if he doesn't make it in two days? What if he's sick? What if he went on a trip? And if he was sitting in the Supreme Hall, in the Supreme Council, and he accepted, he considered 4,000 800 amendments to the bill and couldn't formulate his opinion in two days? Therefore, the committee rejected the proposal by leaving the right of a national MP, a member of the commission, to state his individual opinion at the meeting and then to add it to the protocol without limitation at the time. There's no abuse here. I don't even see ways to abuse if this procedure is prescribed in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u234	Thank you. Please vote. [[12:57:19]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 533. Are you insisting? Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u235	Oh, that's a pretty tough fix. And it refers to article 18, as voted in the first reading, "Ensure the commission of inquiry with documents and information." In fact, this is a fundamental key and conceptual moment. Because it will depend on the status of the interim commission of inquiry when documents are required, the original documents, the information of the officials of the public authorities. I can tell you that very often today, in fact, we are denied documents, which is nothing more than an obstacle to the work of temporary commissions of inquiry. I fully welcome the idea that now the interim commission of inquiry will even be able to demand the original documents. But the only thing that's very important here is to write clearly. For example, if documents are evidence of criminal conduct, it is obvious that we cannot use them, then the matter must be resolved. I suggested how to handle it. Same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u236	Ten seconds. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u237	The same is true when it comes to the transfer of these documents and during the investigation they are evidence, so get copies, pass on the originals. Sadly, however, the committee did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u238	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u239	In fact, this amendment is presented in a new edition. If it is already in the letter of the Rules, the text of the article will be amended. So I'm just asking the people's deputies, when you're making amendments, to read the text of the amendment and the text of what's in the bill on the first reading, there's 90 percent of the text repeating. And now, if we go to the discussion, that's exactly what's changing there. Yeah, you say, "in a reasonable time." Here's a question for me as a lawyer. Who will determine whether he is wise or foolish? I understand what you mean. But in this case, after examining your version of the text and the version that was in the first reading, the committee concluded that it was more rational to leave this article in the same line that was voted on in the first reading. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u240	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:00:09]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 538. There's no insistence on a national MP. 539th. We just voted in 537. Oh, we talked about it in 533. Yes, yes, I'm sorry. 537. Please, People's Deputies, Helen Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u241	Thank you. It's also totally conceptually an amendment and generally an issue. We are talking about article 19. It's now worded, "Giveing testimony or explaining to a commission of inquiry." Well, first of all, giving a statement looks like a legal minimum, bonnet. But that's not the point. When we speak of an obligation to give an explanation and a statement, we should, accordingly, provide special rights and guarantees for the individual. I also offered, for example, what a person could do. which gives an explanation to the commission of inquiry, is entitled to professional legal assistance or has the right, as set out in the Constitution, to refuse to give a witness regarding family members or close relatives. It should also require a closed session if the explanations apply to her personal life. And so on, and so on, that's a whole range of guarantees that we would provide to people in time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u242	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u243	Thank you. During such special procedures of the interim commission of inquiry, which is essentially the equivalent of investigators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u244	The committee, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u245	The committee left it as an editorial, which was in the first reading. One of the reasons. Article 17 states. In fact, this is article 19 of the bill. Let us now vote in favour of this amendment. And what are we going to have? Instead of article 17, which in principle speaks very differently about the members of the commission of inquiry, we will write down an explanation for the commission of inquiry. I don't know where I'm going with this. Dear colleagues, when we make adjustments to the weight, correct, meaningful, come to the committee, maintain your position, and we will work together. Because the amendment in this way cannot be voted on at all. Because we are talking about an amendment to the 19th article, it is written: Article 17 states that this should be done. And even in your speech, you're going to have to replace 17 by 19, and then you're going to start talking. So the committee rejected the amendment and left it in the form that was adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u246	Please vote. Amendment 537. [[13:03:19]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 539. Don't insist. 541. Don't insist. 543rd. Don't insist. 544th. Don't insist. 545th. People's MP, Olena Sotnik. There's a series of amendments: 545ths, 46ths, 47ths. 46th. Please, National Deputy Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u247	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to react once again to your comment. I don't call anything that I don't have in my comparison table. My comparative table comes out of my logic as the subject of a legislative initiative, including another numbering, which is accordingly amended. So I'm not changing anything at all, I'm just trying to understand the colleagues who are in the room right now and out of respect for what they're watching over this bill, and I'm stressing the gender according to your table of amendments. So please don't repeat this ten times, I've already explained this once, it doesn't apply to the substance of my amendments. And basically, it's a fix. You have the article “Victory to the Conclusions and Proposals of the Commission of Inquiry”, this is article 21. I believe that there is no such requirement for conclusions and proposals from the commission of inquiry as the sole result of its work. These are the requirements for the report, and they are essentially contained in this article. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u248	Thank you. The committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u249	The proposed amendment, which we are currently discussing, proposes to exclude article 18. Is that 545 revisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u250	546th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u251	546th. The 546th amendment proposes the title of article 18 as "Report of the Commission of Inquiry." The name of the 18th article in the law of first reading, which we adopted, "Ensure a commission of inquiry with documents and information." So it kind of doesn't add up. Which numbering was meant, but the amendment clearly indicates that article 18 should be changed. It's not consistent with the structure of the bill, so it's rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u252	Please vote, 546 amendments. [[13:06:01]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 547th. Don't you insist? 548th. Don't insist. 549th. Don't insist. 550th. No, it's not. 551st. No, it's not. 552. No, it's not. 553rd. Don't insist. 554th. There's no insistence on a national MP. 555th. Don't insist. 556th. Don't insist. 557th People's Chamberlain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u253	This is unprincipled. And in principle, the potential of the Supreme Council's deputies for a maximum of 40 people in the room now does not allow it to be voted on or fully discussed. But at the same time, I would like to explain to the audience, to our colleagues, why we are so focused, how we focus on each issue, why we are discussing it. We must inform all Ukrainian citizens of tax payers, voters of the importance, significance and main details of this bill, which will depend on the fate of the future President, the entire verticality of power. Because all the resonating events where law enforcement and executive authorities fail will be considered by a separate group of Ukrainian national deputies. And this law must be as perfect as possible. And you need to know the details of this law in order to monitor closely as a civil society for appropriate investigations. It's a really important bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u254	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u255	This is really an important bill that needed both this call, and it will be important and necessary for the next one, and for the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u256	Thank you. I understand you're not insisting on correction. Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u257	The amendment to the committee is rejected because the amendment he has tabled is probably for the number of amendments that can then be reported to the voters that I have made so many amendments, but he says it is irrelevant. The committee turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u258	Next amendment number 559. There's no insistence on a national MP. 560. Don't insist. 561. Don't insist. 562nd. Don't insist. 563rd. Don't insist. She did. That's where it's rejected. 564th People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u259	Thank you. This is an amendment that relates to the order of the commission of inquiry when preparing the conclusion of the vote. Today, the editor suggests that there will be simply a vote and no roll call. I think, considering that the Supreme Council is still acting within us on the principle of the individual vote of each national deputy for each initiative, the same principle should apply to the work of the interim commission of inquiry. This means that for each proposal and for each vote on a temporary commission of inquiry, the national deputy is personally responsible, which means that he votes in person and by name. So it would seem that such a small trifle, but it completely changes the responsibility of the national deputies for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u260	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u261	Well, the committee rejected the offer. In principle, if there is either a disagreement or a discrepancy, or someone wants to point out that someone is voting against what the commission is doing, there is no problem in stating it under the protocol and bringing it to the minutes of the meeting, so that it is then a document to confirm a particular vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u262	Thank you. Please vote, 564 amendments. [[13:10:24]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 565. Don't insist. 568th. Don't insist. You insist, don't you? Please, 568th National MP Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u263	I'd like to pay attention to all the editorial corrections. Look, if the amendment is essentially, I understand that the committee can support, reject, there's a certain philosophy, it's taken into account in an editorial way. But when purely editorial corrections like this and a lot of colleagues have been made, the committee writes, "Deviated, left in the editor's office." It seems to me that the alignment of verbs with nouns in the plural is the rule of the fourth class of Ukrainian. Well, the committee shouldn't decide how the noun matches the verb or the nouns in the differences. I would, after all, ask the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, because you've also been paying attention there in your previous speeches, there's the Supreme Council's apparatus, let's just say when they're technical-legal rights to do so, let the Ukrainian language teacher work on this law and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u264	Thank you. I agree with you, and I want to go back to the committee, and later to the administration of the committee, that is to say, to the committee's apparatus and to the administration concerned, to present the bill in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian language. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, to a new spelling, I don't know if we're going to make it, but exactly in any case, the differences are to be reconciled and what's not relevant to the content of the bill, but what can be corrected in a technical legal way. Is the committee going to comment?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u265	Well, in this case, the committee didn't just technically reject the amendment. I think the word "set" is correct here because (by text) "if the body of pretrial investigation or the court is based and in order" is two things: "established." The foundation and order are in place. That is, the basis and order set out in the Criminal Procedure Code. And in general, I agree with the chairman, and with you that these moments of linguistic character really do have experts to make sure that the linguists don't laugh at our draft texts. And I think that after the adoption of the technical and technical legal drafting of the bill, it has to apply exactly to how they are applied in the same way, in the plural of words, so that they are correct. Because here in this case you see it that way, I see it that way. The linguists have to say there's got to be a word like that. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u266	Thank you. Let's move on. 572 repairs. There's no insistence on a national MP. 574th. Don't insist. 575th. Don't insist. 567th. Don't insist. 577th. Don't insist. 578th. National Deputy Sotnik. Are you insisting? 78th. 579th. Don't insist. 580. Don't insist. 581st. Don't insist. 582nd. Don't insist. 583rd. Don't insist. 584th. Don't insist. 585th National Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u267	Well, first of all. Because you've cleared part of my rights, the purpose of changing the rules of the articles is lost. But I'd like to, I just got a call from Mr. Vasil Ivanovich in Sumo County, 74 years old. So he says that in 74 years of his life, he has not seen such pornography in the form of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when 30 deputies consider such a vital law in the Hall, and the director of the Regulatory Committee complains that the deputies do not go to work. It's just nonsense. And that's the answer to the question why this call by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is such a low rating and why all the parties are sent to the dumpster that was in the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, the factions of these parties. And about yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u268	Basically. Basically.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u269	I. In fact, about your remark. You've accepted almost 80 percent of all my rights and you have no right to blame for bringing them up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u270	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u271	I thank the People's Deputy Kaplan, who made the point of this amendment to the bill, and we have decided to consider a large part of it. And they counted. But, dear God, the truth. This is the site of the Supreme Council: Kaplin is present at 264 meetings that are missing at 300. I have a question: Who doesn't go to work? I didn't hurt anyone. I took information from the Supreme Council website: 47 percent of the working hours are here, 53 percent are not. Maybe someone needs to pay a salary back to ordinary people in Ukraine to raise wages and pensions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u272	Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u273	I'm entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u274	Yeah, I'll give you a word on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u275	I didn't insult anyone. I quoted the Supreme Council website.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u276	I'll give you my word on the line. But please, we're discussing a bill on temporary special investigation committees. Don't discuss Parliament. Right, so don't discuss Parliament, discuss the bill. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u277	I want you to know that because of a completely invalid writing system. e-registration, when a person is gone at 10:00 and already, it turns out that it wasn't missing, it's distorted data. I am one of the most disciplined deputies of the Supreme Council, and according to experts, one of the best MPs in the Supreme Council of this calling. I will personally refer to the relevant findings of the experts. That's the first one. And where your faction is now made up of more than 30 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u278	Dear National Deputies! Until the end of Parliament’s work, there have been many days left. I'll tell you. Still counted, it doesn't matter when the election takes place, it's still a number of days. And I just want to tell you, don't try. Because every time you try to humiliate other MPs, you humiliate Parliament in general and yourself. This applies to everyone. Every time you show an empty parliament, it's up to you. Every time you say people's deputies don't work, it's about you. I'm right, I'm right. Please, let's keep counting. Dear National Deputies! Let's get back to work. 588 revisions. People's MP, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u279	Thank you for the opportunity. Guys, calm down. In fact, all those who are here are the only ones who are today saving this Parliament from shame. Why do you argue with each other? It's okay. I'll try to get back to the bill. 588 revisions. Actually, we're talking about that right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, well, that's impossible. I'm asking the chairman to set things straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u280	Colleagues, I'm asking for order. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're discussing a bill. I ask silence so that MPs working on the bill can continue their work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, don't interrupt the meeting of the Supreme Council. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment No. 587.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u281	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. In this case, we are looking at a very important part of the bill. By the way, I'm now being asked by journalists whether this bill is going to work. In fact, this article is seriously dependent on the order in which officials as well as officials, business representatives, institutions and organizations of explanations are given, and the extent to which these explanations are binding, and what responsibility, in principle, persons are held to be held accountable if they refuse to provide these explanations. So I was just trying to supplement this article in order to strengthen these guarantees, including by referring to the actions provided for in the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u282	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u283	We discussed the matter on the committee precisely about the responsibility for giving false evidence or refusing to give evidence. And the committee came to the conclusion that all of these norms were, in principle, laid down in the Criminal Code. And the status of the witness who comes and gives an explanation to the commission of inquiry, not the highest, in principle, of the State's investigation body, he bears the same criminal responsibility as any witness who talks about something, about what he's heard and seen. So we left it in the first reading, as it's already regulated and laid down in the same Ukrainian Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u284	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:21:02]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 589. Don't insist. 590. Don't insist. 591s. Don't insist. 92nd. Don't insist. 593. Don't insist. 594th. Don't insist. 595. Don't insist. 596. Don't insist. 598. Don't insist. 599th National MP, Olena Sotnik. Don't insist. 600th. Don't insist. 601. Don't insist. 602nd. Don't insist. 603rd. Don't insist. 604th. Don't insist. 605th. Don't insist. 606th. People's MP, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u285	Thank you. Amendment 606 refers to article 26 in the first reading of "The manner in which experts are involved in the commission of inquiry and special commissions". Well, I'm going to remind myself of my logic that I thought that special commissions, especially those that actually do and duplicate the work of committees on legislative initiatives, are completely inappropriate. But with regard to the involvement of experts, our practice may tell you that the decision of the interim commission of inquiry is not sufficient. The Supreme Council’s apparatus has yet to be entrusted with certain responsibilities and obligations regarding the organization of such experts to the maximum extent possible. So I even determined that the reaction was to take place within five days. Well, all national deputies know how hard it can be to organize a job, including when it comes to involving outsiders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u286	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u287	Well, again, the problem is that this amendment changes article 20, which is a little bit less than 20, which is 24 or 26. I'm even looking at a version of the law right now, and I can't figure it out for myself. The idea that in this amendment, in principle, has a place in life. But that's how you take it now and vote the amendment, change article 20 to the text that's, well, the whole structure of the bill is going to fly a screwdriver. So once again, I am addressing the national MPs who are amending, if there is a renumbering of the articles, please come to the committees so that we can discuss your idea and put it into practice. Now, let's see, let's see, what kind of article the National MP wanted to make, even though there's a rational grain, well, it's very hard. Therefore, the text of this amendment cannot be accepted because the structure of the bills will be violated. It's a good idea, but where to apply it, that's another question. The amendment should be rejected in view of the fact that the structure of the bill cannot be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u288	Please vote. Amendment 606. [[13:24:18]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. Next amendment, number 607. Don't insist. 608th. Don't insist. 609th. Don't insist. 610, People's Deputy Capplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u289	That's how it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u290	Not counted. 611.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u291	That's, by the way, I'm done. I started talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u292	He has the right to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u293	This is a confirmation of the importance of law enforcement. And this amendment has just played an extremely important role in overcoming the possible conflict of interest in the Ukrainian National Deputy, who is participating as a member of the interim commission of inquiry and in accordance with its professional activities. This is another confirmation that no one wrote any licenses for quantity. And our rights of those deputies who are now here in the hall and who stand up for them, and they tell society to pay taxes, to voters about their content, about their functions, about the philosophy of these rights, in fact, make this legislative act as perfect as possible, as it can change the situation in order in Ukraine. That's why I'm stressing again. Participating in the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a sacred duty of the National Deputy of Ukraine. What is more, when such important, mere historical documents are considered. This is essentially the new Constitution of Ukraine, which will help bring order back to the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u294	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u295	Correction counted. What's the comment? Indeed, if there is a conflict of interest, a person does not have the right to vote. But this amendment basically duplicates other norms of legislation, and we've taken it into account, because once again, to emphasize that it is the conflicts of interest that lead to corruption, which has penetrated into all of our spheres of life, and something the authorities are fighting, fighting and not fighting. To emphasize once again that if a member of the committee has a conflict of interest, he has no right to vote. Although this is already prescribed in other laws of Ukraine. So this is actually a duplication of the existing standard. But the committee counted, there's no need to vote here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u296	Thank you. Amendment 611. A national MP does not insist. 612. Don't insist. 613. Don't insist. 614. Don't insist. 615. Don't insist. 616 - accounted for. 615th -- counted, 616th -- does not insist. 617. Don't insist. 618. There's no insistence on a national MP. 619. Don't insist. 620. Don't insist. 624th. Don't insist. In the meantime, may I have a word with the representative of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u297	I'm paying attention to the people's deputies, and now we're going to look at the amendments to that chapter that was included by the regulatory committee in the bill's body in accordance with the Supreme Council's Order for the second reading. It's just a chapter that can be called the impeachment law. This is the chapter that regulates the procedure of impeachment laid down in the bill passed by the newly elected president and which has been before the regulatory committee today. So I ask you to pay attention to this and look very carefully at the text as it's written there and how it fits those ideas and goals that are set out in this chapter of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u298	Thank you. The next amendment, which is not counted, is amendment number 633 of the national MP, Captain Helen. 633rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u299	Thank you. 633 amendment, which refers to the exclusion in general from the text of the law of article 29, which provides for responsibility for failure to comply with the requirements of that law. To be honest, it simply contains a list of general standards that are obvious. That is, there is a reference, a general reference to the fact that they bear responsibility as those who refuse to come or testify or provide information according to the legislation in force. So it's clear, and it's installed. I'm curious about the logic of the committee, why did it have to write this single article, which, in its essence, does not carry any meaningful load.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u300	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u301	This proposal is not supported by the committee on the basis that it is thought, and it is already used to the fact that the investigating boards of the Supreme Council, as long as you do not call them, do not gather them, do not make any sense of it. Whoever came, who didn't come to the commission, whether it's concluded or not, no matter what the legal consequences are. Indeed, the responsibility for non-existence, false testimony, refusal of testimony, testimonies, is prescribed, and we've already talked about this in this room, literally about 30 minutes ago. But we believe it is appropriate in this law to stress that the responsibility, it is prescribed, and it will apply precisely to the legal relations that relate to the activities of all the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council. I agree with you that yes, it is a repetition of the norms that are already prescribed. But from my point of view, for people who are not superheroes and lawyers and have diplomas and not even very red to make it clear that this is the situation, let's say, in the commission that follows, if you don't come, or if you're sorry, you're gonna lie, you will.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u302	Thank you. Please vote. [[13:31:14]] For-22. Next amendment number 637. Shinkovic, national MP, please. Shinkovich. 636? Yes, please, National Deputy Shinkovic, 636 amendments. Buglak, please include 636 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u303	Given the importance of this chapter, we write that this amendment is partially taken into account, I would like to bring to the screen the final edition that we will have, and the comments of the committee on this subject. Because it's not quite clear what you're counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u304	Thank you. I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u305	This amendment refers to article 20, which regulates the formation and organization of the work of the Special Investigation Commission. This is the commission that deals with impeachment. Why was it written "partially counted"? Because there were many suggestions from national deputies, including committee members. And we're like in that old cartoon that shows that if you take all the textbooks, put them under the press, that's how the manual works. We made all the adjustments, each took a rational grain, made the text that is proposed for the second reading. And so in order not to reject the amendment, because there were really people's deputies who had their own rationality, they took it into the general text that was proposed, and they wrote it in part. From each amendment is what is taken in the final edition of this article. That's why it's written "in part" because the word "inclined" is no, we didn't reject the amendment completely. We took from the amendments what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u306	Please, 30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u307	We took it from the amendments of every national MP who submitted, let's say, part of the text. So it is not fully counted, but it is not rejected. So the text says, "accounted for, partially counted," so that no one would be offended by the national MPs working on the text, put their abilities, visions and so on. In this way, the text of the article came out smart enough and concisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u308	Thank you. 633, please, Buglak, please. Ready to explain to the 602nd Committee. 632? Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u309	632 revisions. Showing: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 sheets of text. We've really looked at it, we've read it, we've read it, we've taken a lot of the text that's proposed, we've taken into account the proposals of other people's deputies, and on the way out, we've published a second reading of a text that we think takes into account all the rational grains from each amendment, and it gives us an understanding of what's going on in making such commissions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u310	Thank you. Amendment 637. There's no insistence on a national MP. 641 amendment, national MP, Helen Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u311	Thank you, Madam Chairman. A substantial amendment to the Criminal Code and to the Rules is sufficient. By the way, the representative of the committee had already pointed out that a number of my amendments could not be included in view of their contravention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the logic of my amendment, it was completely systemic. It included changes to the Rules in order to reconcile my concept with that of an active one, and I suggested in the Rules in general that we refer to the law and exclude the rules that set out the activities of the interim commissions of inquiry in order to avoid any misunderstandings, I mean procedural norms, of course not. Only those who technically establish the work of temporary investigation committees so that there are not just readings. So this is 641 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u312	I'd like the committee to comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u313	Well, in principle, on the committee, when we looked at this amendment, there are really rational proposals for change. But if we now go to the point that by every word, by every word, a ministerial servant or not a ministerial servant, we will not be limited by this amendment. And according to the norm, even the technique, we're not going to get into a consistent text. So a decision was made. We have amended this law into two pieces of legislation: the Criminal Code and the National Police Act on the case, and we have included a temporary commission of inquiry. And in principle, I think it's not just the comments under other related laws and codes that come out. And in the process, let's say, yes, life, application, we're going to fix all of this and it's not going to interfere with this law working. And if we go now to look, there's a code of execution, there's a lot, there's 22,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u314	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u315	And we're going to go by looking to reconcile every word, every term, so we can bury ourselves in it and lose the bill. And that's how we'll pass the law. And if there is no answer in other laws, it will not interfere with the work of the temporary commissions. That is why we have rejected this amendment from such logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u316	Thank you. They insist on voting. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 641 People's Deputies, Sotnik. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[13:40:10]] For-22. The decision is not taken. 642, Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u317	Counted. Well, I can explain. Let me explain the point of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u318	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u319	By the way, it's thanks to both the people's MP Melnik and other people's deputies who pointed out that, according to the text of the bill, we somehow lost an entity like the MPs. We left the factions. And a lot of amendments were made in the text of the bill to add "deputy factions" and "deputy groups". And this amendment is included in particular. And although Mr. Melnik is not non-fractional there, he's in faction, but he's made sure that the national MPs who make up the MPs are also entitled to represent and participate in these commission investigators. So it's... it's... We didn't count post-faction. And that's largely a non-fractional problem. If a person does not enter into any political power that wants to take responsibility for the country’s fate, well, then be determined whether you are yourself or for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u320	Thank you. So you don't insist on that. Remind me, what was that? 600.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u321	It was the number 642.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u322	42th, yeah. 643. Don't insist. He insists, doesn't he? 44th, it's partially accounted for. Please, Buglak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u323	I would like to receive a comment on a very important article about conflicts of interest, which is partially included there. And the same is true of 646. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u324	The issue of conflict of interest in the text of the bill is very, in principle, well prescribed. There is also a reference to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, meaning. The definition of the terms used in the Prevention of Corruption Act is translated into this law: both conflict of interest, and related persons, and close relatives, are all used in this law. And here we emphasize that these things are very related. Again, speaking of the fact that the commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council from history, how they worked, which had legal effects, in fact, no, we emphasize that, in the work of these commissions of inquiry, which we prescribe by law, there should be no one there who did not say or even suspected that the members of the commission have some conflict of interest, they do not claim, they do, they do, they do, they vote, they make decisions and they cover someone there. That's why we wrote it all down, and it goes from the beginning to the very end of the conflict of interest, it's clearly defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u325	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. Thank you. So 646. Don't insist. 648th, Semenha. Don't insist. 650th. Don't insist. 652. Don't insist. 654th. The author does not insist. 655th, Oksana Siroid. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u326	Thank you. We came from the fact that philosophy was temporary. a special interim commission of inquiry is a tool of opposition, it is the ability of opposition factions and minority factions to control the activities of the majority. In this regard, we suggested that the composition of the commission be formed on the basis of an equal, not a proportional, representation, because, under the condition of a proportional representation in temporary representatives. Special temporary investigation commissions will still be dominated by factions of the majority. And that makes no sense at all in the commission's control function. So our amendment applied, and we insist on having representation in the temporary. In special temporary investigation committees, it was the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u327	The committee rejected the amendment. There's a rational grain in this idea. How many times have we seen people's deputies trying to create a temporary commission, a commission of inquiry, factions of the majority don't give their representatives, the commission doesn't create, the question isn't being investigated. But the question is that the Rules themselves provide proportional representations, and if we enter here equally, we still have to change the Rules. And the question is, abuse of the powerful factions that make up the coalition, abuse of allowing them not to be investigated. Now we're talking about a law that's going to be used not to abuse or investigate, but to run the process to make it work. I'm more than convinced that at the beginning of the commission's work under this law, which we're going to adopt, there will be more than one question about how this law should be adjusted to make it work, so that the procedure works so that the commission's investigators can work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u328	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u329	This is a serious question about representation. To make sure that the commissions that follow are an effective tool. We've even discussed the question of how to create a commission, if there are three national deputies, and others don't, then create commissions and let it work. And that would probably be the right thing to do. On the other hand, let's imagine the situation. When the spam boards go, and every three out of 450 deputies, 150 commissions now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u330	Give me a minute to finish. This is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u331	I'll explain, it's a very important question. And imagine the situation. 450 deputies per three people on each commission -- 150 commissions now we're going to create and we're going to draw on this topic that we, or, well, I don't even know how to say it. So in order to avoid extremes, we have decided for the time being to leave as it is, as proposed in the first reading and as prescribed in the Rules. And then life will show. And I'm sure it'll show that in time we're going to return to this very norm proposed by Mrs. Siroid. But it's going to be a little bit later, because right now we can lose a little bit, let's say, the bill itself for the same idea. So the committee turned it down. But I am convinced that in the future we will return to this and make appropriate changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u332	Thank you. I think it's really a very important topic that Mrs. Oksana and Oleg Vasilovich was very professionally commenting on it. In fact, what might be the danger? Which on the same subject could be created by several commissions on the same subject. And then, on condition that when a commission, three commissions call either the Henprosecutor or the Head of the Ministry, they have a choice as to which of those committees to go to. And there's a kind of legal colossion where it can really turn, as Oleg Vasilovich said, into spam when commissions are created on the same subject. Therefore, with the greatest possible increase in the positions of opposition factions, we have to maintain a certain standard, and the Rules, so that the commission does not become just and exclusively a political site, but could exist as a serious institutional tool to control executive power. But Mrs. Oksana insists on the vote and so, of course, I will. Let's make another comment, a really important topic. Oleg Vasilovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u333	But what I'm not saying is, no matter what we're being scolded by, the Supreme Council, no matter what level of trust or mistrust there is, the Parliament is working and there are always 226 minds in Parliament, I would say that they won't allow 150 committees to vote on three of the same issues. So no matter how much we're being scolded, and yet the Supreme Council has been working, working, and working in which warehouse people will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u334	Thank you. So I'm betting on a 655 vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[13:49:24]] For-33 It's a victory, but it's not a decision to make, unfortunately. 657th. Don't insist. We also discussed this topic from most of the audience, and there are also a number of risks, unfortunately, that we found during the discussion on this subject. 659th author does not insist. 661. Don't insist. 663th, Captain. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your opportunity. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. This is my last amendment to the text of this bill. It's about how regulation on those commissions that are already working and, for example, tomorrow, I hope, I hope, very much, that there will be mobilization of the people's deputies and we will adopt this law. So that it doesn't spread, of course, to those committees that are already working so that there's no legislative imbalance. But given the last 30 seconds I have, I want to say that people's deputies need to understand why it's important to come and vote for this law tomorrow. All those who get to the next Supreme Council or who are ever going to be Ukrainian national deputies have to understand that this is not the only, indeed, effective mechanism of possibility not just with tongues, sorry, slap, but to control government. And from this point of view, we can conclude that these conclusions really have an impact on work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u336	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u337	Thank you. In order for these conclusions to really affect work, to improve the efficiency of government authorities. And the main thing. This completely changes the role of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, making it such an overseer, including with questions of corruption in government authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u338	Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u339	I completely agree with Mrs. Sotnik. In fact, we have brought our system and law enforcement, and the courts are so-called reforms, to the point that no one has faith -- once and no one works -- two. A police investigation was destroyed. The D.A. was circumcised on his own, I don't know, if it wasn't for elbows, so on his shoulder, he can't do it, he can't do it, he can't do it, it's just a name. How NAZK and NABA work, we see ourselves chasing political orders instead of working with crime. The FBI, which has just started to work, can't say anything yet, but they've been getting a salary for almost a year. The anti-corruption court, so divisive, will only work in September. And it turns out that the only island that can take responsibility for investigating the crimes committed by high - ranking citizens of the state remains the Supreme Council. And now we're looking at the tool that we can give, sorry for the paphos, the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u340	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u341	the people of Ukraine in the person of the elected national deputies. Those who may, and are obliged to, set up commissions of inquiry to investigate crimes not only of high officials but of the highest officials of the state, including the President. And then when we run this law and this mechanism works, then, sorry, there'll be fear of an official not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u342	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u343	Fear that punishment will be irreversible, and any crime will be investigated at the highest level shown throughout the country, declared from the highest rostrum in the state. And maybe they won't be so violent about breaking the law, stealing the budget, humiliating people and making the country worse than it is now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u344	Thank you. Are you insisting on the vote, Mrs. Helen? I'm putting it to a vote of 663, People's Chamber of the Stonik, and the committee has rejected it, who supports it, please vote. [[13:54:04]] For-26 The decision is not taken. But I want to support Mrs. Olenna that tomorrow we will have a unique chance, tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will have a unique chance to adopt this law. Now we can see right now, it's going to be about 10:40-11. And that's why it's the responsibility of every national MP to postpone the election and be in the session room tomorrow, starting at 10:30 when we finish the discussion. I am very counting, and I hope that every faction will be mobilised tomorrow to enable us to raise the role and significance of Ukrainian parliamentaryism. 665th. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Don't insist. Six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven. The author does not insist. 668. Syroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u345	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Unfortunately, we have a bad practice where the standards of anything in each field are defined by a separate law. I remember how a fellow national MP, Pinzenik, has been fighting for a long time to see, for example, the standards of pay for work as well as the mechanisms of remuneration, including for public officials to be determined by one law so that they can understand the so - called network, from which we are pushed away so that each law does not set a separate amount of remuneration for the various officials. The same story is here when, for example, a separate law is proposed to determine the format of the Supreme Council's decision as it should be for the Commission's decision. If we have the requirements and standards of law and the Supreme Council's rulings, as defined by the Supreme Council's Rules, not every single law can define other standards of regulation or law for individual purposes. If we have agreed that the Supreme Council Rules are the same document that standardizes the order of documents, then we must agree that this should be the same document. That's the whole point of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u346	The Committee rejected the proposed amendment on the basis that in principle this amendment-referral to part four of article 4. This part of article 4, it repeats the norm of the Rules in fact one at a time. But the Supreme Council Rules are a document that regulates the activities of the Supreme Council and is approved by the Rules Act. The Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act contains only two articles: Article 1 - to approve the Rules, Article 2 - to enter into force with. And so when we write this rule in law once again, it's the law, and it's the law. And the Rules are, in fact, a bit of a sub-legal act. So the force of this rule, as prescribed in the law, is precisely what we're looking at, I think it's more important, more important, and it gives weight to the law itself, because it's placed directly in the body of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u347	Thank you. I'll bet you vote 668. The committee has turned her down, who supports it, please vote. [[13:57:36]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 669th. Capplin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u348	Guys, it's very important. It's a very important thing to do. I wanted to duplicate in this norm the paragraph on status as provided for in article 85 of the Ukrainian V.R.U. Regulation. The Ukrainian law on the status of a national MP that the head, deputy head and secretary of a special commission cannot be one of the MPs. Because there may also be changes in the Rules. And at the same time, I'd like to propose for this bill, once again, to thank the profiling committee. When you watch American films, you see the appropriate sessions of the resonating committee in the United States. This is about the same important work that will take place after the adoption of this bill. And such things as: Gordijenko's claim of corruption in the Yatsenuk government, claims of corruption in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, allegations of corruption in the Ucroboranprom, the murder of Hansuk and other activists, the theft in Ukraine, the consequences of medical reform and so on, and so on, it will be the subject of a commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u349	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u350	All of these cases will be the subject of a commission of inquiry. And I'm truly proud that the more than a hundred axles that I've worked hard with have been counted by the committee, the regulatory committee. And proud to have our little team today at twenty with a tail, a man still managed to work out some of those rights that are fundamental to the body of this law in order to be effective, really European. And all the standards that were worked out were transferred to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u351	Thank you. Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u352	Unlike the previous law, where we had the opposite position, and we have prescribed in the law what is in the Rules, in this case, except that this proposed rule is proposed to be duplicated from the Rules, it is further stipulated in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. So since it's already in the law, once again and again in another law, we decided that it doesn't make sense. But the suggestion is correct in that we really need to increase the role and importance of this bill. And I thank, in part, all the national MPs who have joined in creating this bill, and this regulatory committee, who, believe me, has been working for more than a day to get this text out so that there are no complaints and there are no abuses or lasagna to get around it. And I'm also convinced that once we adopt this law and it works, this is probably how students will learn from the experience of the special commissions of the Supreme Council, like justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u353	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u354	As a matter of fact, not justice, not a wrong word, but how the struggle for justice and punishment of the villains works in Ukraine at last on the third decade of independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-05-m0.u355	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So, colleagues, we discussed the 669 right, 2:00. And I want them all, colleagues. First of all, I'm convinced that today the committee will be able to analyze the entire course of our discussion so that tomorrow we can propose a well-balanced project that will take into account all the regulations and discussions that were in the hall. And I'm sure, as always, the regulatory committee will be very professionally prepared for the final consideration of the bill tomorrow. There's not much left. There's about 70 rights left. Tomorrow we'll be able to look at them, I'm sure, less than an hour. And I urge all national deputies to arrive tomorrow at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A two-way vote. In addition, we will have a series of laws, both safe and educational and international ratifications that we will have to adopt tomorrow. And I'm hoping for a high level of mobilization tomorrow, and I'm reminding you that tomorrow we have to go to the Electoral Code for Open Lists, so I'm counting on a successful, effective, effective tomorrow. And I'll be waiting in the hall tomorrow at 10 a.m. And this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed and wish for all the fruitful and effective work on the committees. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
