ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare to register and enter the hall. Please. Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. [[16:04:02]] 347 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. My colleagues, I'd like to remind you of the logic of our work after lunch. We have a block of environmental laws in our daily lives. The first is the second reading. All factions were involved in the drafting of those laws. I hope that they will be able to unify the hall. I want to remind you that today we have to enter into the consideration of the State Language Act. We realize that the right is much, but we have to start today. And after the environmental block, we're going to be entering the cultural cluster. That's our logic after lunch. And so I'm asking everyone to mobilize, we've been actively working before lunch, and it's important that we show the same high responsibility and discipline after lunch. But before I go to the first environmental code, I want to announce a statement from two factions who are ready to replace the break for the performance. And I'd like to invite Victor Halasyuk. Please, Mr. Victor, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u2	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, as a result of the secret talks between the President and the government with the International Monetary Fund, the government has adopted a three-stage increase in the price of gas for the population. Few have made such an increase are planning to continue. This is an artificial, economically unjustified increase in tariffs that causes social shock in the country. Ukraine provides two-thirds of its needs with the gas of Ukrainian production, with the State's production, primarily the Crushing. If you count the cost of this Ukrainian gas of government production, even the cost, even with a cost of 15 percent, with transportation costs, with an investment component, with a trade premium, with a rent, it's going to be about 5,000 dollars per thousand cubes. What does the government set up under the direction of the International Monetary Fund? Over 10,000 dollars per thousand cubes per Ukrainian gas. As a result, tens of billions of our taxpayers' money is being taxed with you to a state monopoly, a company called Naftogaz Ukraine. As a result of the previous increase in tariffs for Naftogaz gas, he made 27 billion dollars in profits. That's not taking into account Stockholm's arbitration. These are our expenses, taxpayers, pensioners' costs, teachers' costs, doctors' expenses, which are unduly removed from your pockets to do what you can to pay billions of dollars to the Naftogazu leaders, these puppets. I'm holding in my hands the Order, registered by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lošek, on the return to the state budget of $1 billion 400 million in premiums, which were unwarrantedly paid to Kobolev and his troops at Naftogaza from our funds with you. It's robbery and robbery. Instead of releasing Kobolev and returning the money to the budget, the government continues his contract. It's totally unacceptable. The Radical Party team insists on returning these funds to the budget immediately. In addition, Oleg Lazko and our team are insisting on an urgent parliamentary review of the Order to Eliminate the Government's decision to increase the price of gas for the population and freeze gas tariffs. It is totally unfair to have European prices, artificially unwarranted by the government, and the lowest level of wages in the country. And against this background, it's cynical to pay for the billions of Coboleva and his lieutenants. In addition, what are industrial laws not discussed at all? Why not put anti-crisis laws on increasing export duties on scrap metal immediately? Why not put a bill on "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" and industrial parks to raise Ukrainians' incomes, create jobs in Ukraine? Put on everything you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u4	Place anything other than important industrial laws. The activity of all branches of government should be geared towards raising citizens' incomes, creating jobs for Ukrainians in Ukraine, raising our economy and industry. That's the plan. And these are actually Ukrainian, economic reforms, not what the authorities are offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u5	Thank you, colleagues. I'm the only one with a short trailer. You can't, for example, call the Transplant Act anything that the Supreme Council accepts. Today, we have adopted a number of laws that are acceptable to humans. And so be correct in your statement on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, colleagues, let's move on to the environmental cluster. The first is the draft of the Basic Principles (Strategy) Act of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy until 2030. This is second reading, colleagues, so it does not need a special procedure. But I have a big request to all right-wing authors. Let us not delay the discussion so that we can go through it for perhaps half an hour and vote. So we can go through other laws on environmental issues. And that's why I'm starting my consideration of Bill 8328. And I invite you to report to the head of the committee's subcommittee on environmental policy, Ribak Ivan Petrovich. Please, Mr. Ivan. I'd like to ask the right-wing authors to get ready for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows, distinguished Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! A second reading of the Ukrainian Supreme Council is the draft of the Ukrainian Basic Principles (Strategy) Act, which was adopted on 16 October 2018. The draft Law on Basic Principles (Strategy) of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 is a document of long-term programming and planning in the field of environmental protection. The draft Law aims to review the main strategic tasks of public environmental policy in relation to the signing of the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine with the European Union and to ensure that environmental legislation is gradually brought to the right of the European Union. The bill included 206 proposals and rights of Ukrainian MPs. These are suggested, including partially and editorially, 136 and 70. In preparation for the second reading of the draft bill by members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has organized internal substantive unity and consistency of the material presented, the stages of implementation have been clarified. The main principles (strategy) of public environmental policy, the definition of the strategic objectives of the bill aimed at achieving results, the terminology of the bill is consistent with established scientific terminology and the terminology of legislation. According to the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the bill requires substantial work. But in fact, at the time of the committee’s second reading, all the amendments submitted by the national deputies were thoroughly discussed in serious discussions. Most of them found a single point of view, and accordingly was accepted in an editorial that is now being proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Basic Principles (Strategic) Act of the Ukrainian State Environmental Policy for the period up to 2030, under registration number 8328, as a result of a second reading as a whole. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u7	So, colleagues, I'm asking the right-wing authors to work dynamically. I'll call who insists by raising my hand. Here we go, fellows. 1st. Don't insist. 5th. Don't insist. 8th. He insists. Please, Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u8	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. I support and the "Fatherland" faction will support the adoption of this bill. Please also consider my amendment on adding to Ukraine’s environmental problems and on its root causes the impact of global climate change. This phenomenon, which is global, has been recognized by sociological research in many countries as the first in terms of threats. The second is the fight against global terrorism. So I think that Ukraine should also take into account the factors of global climate change in its strategies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u9	Thank you. Please vote for 8 amendments. Please comment first, Mr. Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u10	By deflecting, the committee was guided by such definitions as that climate change is already the result, in fact, of the causes, of climate change already such as anthropogenic impacts, i.e. the harmful effects of industry, of man on the environment. But I don't mind, let's let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u11	I'd like to make my definition of 8 amendments. [[16:14:54]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Let's move on. 16th. It's whose amendment, can't I see? No, well, 16th, okay, but they don't raise their hand to 16th amendment. So let's go, no, I'm just looking at who's in the hall. John, don't tell me. I know what to do. Believe me. 29. Dirov. Don't you insist? No 16 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u12	There's Dirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u13	There is a hole, and 16 amendments – Constanceevich, Shevchenko – are gone, Mr. John. Mr. Dirov, are you insisting on 32 corrections? Thank you. I can see everything, don't worry. We have almost all the amendments taken into account, dear colleagues, so we are. 76th, that's great. At least I'm still with her. 76 amendment is an amendment of the People's Deputy. We haven't reached it yet, I'm looking at 76th. Rybchin, please. Microphone to the national deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u14	Thank you very much. Indeed, a fine committee worked on the bill along with the Ministry. However, in the second chapter, I think that the goal, ambush and principles, the instruments of public environmental policy, are not enough to add reductions in emissions, greenhouse gases such as methane and N2O nitrogen oxide, increased absorption and carbon capture by applying better farming practices adapted to climate change. And the creation of conditions for Ukraine's sustainable development goals, which were approved at the UN Summit of Permanent Development in 2018, the things that are being implemented in all parliaments of the world. So I think in this chapter, and my 100 adjustments, which I'm also going to insist on, should have these definitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u15	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head on the 86 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u16	In fact, 82 amendments were taken into account for the purposes of principles, principles, and instruments of public environmental policy. And it has been defined that the goal of public environmental policy is to achieve good environmental conditions by introducing an ecosystem approach to all directions of economic and social development in Ukraine. This concept included reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But the committee doesn't deny it, and we can put the right hand in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u17	Thank you. Let's go to 86, please. Don't insist. Mr. Ryabczyn does not insist, he simply made his amendment to the discussion regarding greenhouse gas emissions. We have had enough amendments prepared by a group of national deputies: Shevchenko, Didic, Batenko, Dubinin. But they do not insist on their amendments. And we're moving on. And now the 100 Ribs repair. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u18	The Fatherland faction, Alexei Rybchin, Doñecina. I will insist even on voting for this amendment. And we were at a meeting with Mr. Ostap Semerak, head of the committee, and we were determined to support this amendment. It refers to the inclusion in the Basic Principles of State Environmental Policy of Ukraine's Permanent Development Goals, which were approved at the UN Summit on Sustainable Development in 2015. There are 17 goals of continuous development that have been adapted to all countries of the United Nations. There are clean water, clean energy, and reducing inequalities, and mitigating the effects of climate change, saving marine resources, protecting and restoring land’s ecosystems, and we need them very much. Therefore, a request, a consolidated position to support this amendment, so that we meet our international obligations to our United Nations partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u19	Thank you. May I have your comment, please? And, colleagues, we still have a little change left.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u20	Well, the committee, really, aware of the role of the Ukrainian Parliament in achieving the objectives of sustainable development, understanding our role, we support. And they really had a conversation with the Ministry, and the Ministry also supports it. I think that in the final vote, we will ask our parliamentary leadership to take this into account, but only without a figure. If you don't mind, because it's there. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u21	I'm putting it to a vote now, and in the final vote, it's going to be determined by the transcript. Please specify the substance of the amendment to the version proposed by the author, and then, under the transcript, you will be fixed by the committee during the final vote. Please make up your mind. Guys, we have a few changes left. I hope we can vote for 10 minutes, so it's very important to go back to the hall. [[16:20:17]] Z-62 The correction is rejected in this option. Next 128th National Deputy Levchenko. People's Deputy Levchenko, 128th Amendment. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u22	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I want to point out that the huge problem in many Ukrainian cities today is the destruction of the living space of the inhabitants through the illegal destruction of green plants in the course of construction work. In large cities, entire parks and squares are often destroyed by builders in violation of the requirements of law. The destruction of green plants near residential buildings is a very common practice, and a total problem, a plague, can even be said. In particular, in recent years there have been resonant incidents of massive illegal destruction of green plants in Kiev, Odessa, Zaporozhye, and Kharkiv. It's just that I got a call from the voters as Ukraine's national deputy. In Kiev at all, this plague under the control of Mayor Klitschka is total and it's simple. I've reached terrible levels. All of this leads us to conclude that the need to preserve green plants in cities should be anchored in the strategy of public environmental policy. So my amendment suggests that the strategy should prescribe the importance of not allowing unjustified destruction of green plants.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u23	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u24	That the strategy should provide for the non-admission of unwarranted destruction of green plantings within cities during construction or other work, the illegal removal of land occupied by green plantings under construction. This is now a total problem in big cities, and I don't understand why my amendment wasn't taken into account at the committee level. Obviously it should be part of state environmental policy, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u25	I ask for clarification of the committee’s head on 128 amendments. My colleagues, we have another amendment, I very much ask you to return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the 128 amendment committee did not take it into account, because it was understood that two fundamental laws had recently been passed by the Ukrainian Parliament: the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and the Strategic Environmental Assessment Act, which both define the role of the public and the business cooperation with local governments. But we absolutely don't deny it, and we suggest that the right-hand person read it under the transcript during the final vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u27	I'd like to make a statement. Please vote 128. [[16:23:07]] For-60 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, and we're moving to the last amendment to this bill, this is the amendment of 296 People's Deputies Rybchin. Please, his microphone. But I'm very much asking you to go back to the session room, and now there's going to be a closing statement by the committee head, and then we're going to give such a summary word to the secretary of profile and we're going to vote. Please, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I ask you to unite all the political forces around the voting for this bill, because the issue of environmental protection, environmental issues, the issue of climate change, this is a non-political issue, this is a matter of standard of living, this is a question of quality of life, this is a question of the length of life of Ukrainians. I know that everyone loves Ukraine, Ukrainians all love Ukraine, so the request to vote for a strategically important document on a non-partisan basis, on a non-political basis, and to support the basic principles of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u29	Thank you. Please comment on the amendment. We vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u30	Thank you, dear colleagues, for taking a thorough look at this bill, and have participated in preparing for the second reading. Thank you very much to all right-wing authors. I ask everyone to support this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the rights of 128 and 100 of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u31	I'm sorry, we're voting first for 296 amendments to Rybchin. 296.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u32	He didn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u33	Don't insist. Okay. Then, again, please, here's the summary word. Please, the final word of John Ribak once more. Colleagues, we're going to vote in two or three minutes. Please return to the session room. Mr. John, therefore, sum up the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u34	Please vote on the second reading and in general on the Basic Principles (Strategy) of Ukraine’s State Environmental Policy for the period up to 2030 under registration number 8328, covering 100 and 128.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u35	So, colleagues, if we're going to vote with you as a whole on the bill that we're currently considering, we're going to vote with you on 100 rights (but you said there, no numbers. No numbers, no indicators) and 128. Okay. I give the floor to sum up our discussion with the Minister of Profile Ecology of Ostap Semerak. I very much ask my colleagues to return to the session room, and we see that we have such a good concentration of deputies, and I think we're going to get a positive result. Mr. Ostap, three minutes, please. And please return to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your close and fruitful cooperation with our Committee on Environmental Policy, all representatives of all factions who have been active in preparing the table for second reading. In fact, the strategy focuses on solving the country’s major environmental problems, and given the above, I would like to confirm the support of the amendments that John Rybak has made. They're absolutely right, and they can be counted. It's also Lechchenka's amendment, and Rybčina's. I would also like to say that, for us, this bill is important for the country because it is called upon to break the direct dependence of Ukraine's socio-economic growth on the further increase in the use of natural resources and environmental pollution. The strategy has an important innovation approach, including 30 measuring indicators that will place so-called KPIs in the execution of this important strategy. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support this bill and vote for it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u37	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, colleagues. I would like the factions to invite the deputies to the hall and ask the secretariat to inform us that we are moving on to a decision. Colleagues, I very much believe that as before lunch, we will be able to unite and support the issue of environmental policy. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. As far as I know, all the factions support this project. Colleagues Ready to Vote? Let's move on to making a decision. Please come in. I want to remind you that the committee has asked us to uphold the law, taking into account the 128 and 100 -- taking into account 128 and 100. And that's why I'm going to put it to a vote with these two rights. It's all right, isn't it? That's right, isn't it? Okay. So I'm voting on the draft of the Basic Principles (Strategic) Act of Ukraine's State Environmental Policy for the period to 2030 (8328) in second reading and in general, taking into account the 128 and 100 and the technical legal rights. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We vote, we support ecology. Vote! We vote yes. [[16:29:17]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed. And, colleagues, let's work on environmental issues in the same mood. Thus, the next draft of Law 9253 is the draft Law on the Principles of Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:29:57]] For a hundred and Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Please, Mr. Ostap.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u38	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Honourable Andriy Volodymyrovich, the Honourable People's Deputies, is submitting to your consideration a bill on the principles of monitoring, reporting, verification of greenhouse gases. The bill is called upon to establish a modern, reliable system of data collection for greenhouse gas emissions at the level of enterprises in Ukraine. The creation of such a system is an integral part of Ukraine’s new climate policy. In addition, the implementation of this system in Ukraine will ensure the implementation by Ukraine of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, as well as compliance with international obligations under the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the establishment of a system of greenhouse gas emissions trading. The monitoring system will ensure high accuracy, reliability, reliability and comparability of greenhouse gas emissions reports that can be applied for various purposes: to improve public policy in this area before implementing economic instruments to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, and to become an important element and basis for further cooperation between countries in climate change. The adoption of this law will have a positive impact on the level of individual enterprises and on the state level. For businesses, the system will create conditions for obtaining data on the carbonity of their production, promoting investment, which is very important, and long-term planning of economic activity, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and participating in market and non-market instruments to regulate emissions. This is an important step for the State because it will ensure the transition to low-carbon development in our country. Please, fellow members of the national parliament, support the bill drafted by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u39	Thank you. Thus, Ribak Ivan Petrovich is invited to the report. And I recommend that we speak more concisely so that we can adopt more of the laws of your block. It's more concise. Please, Mr. Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u40	A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster considered the Kabmin bill on the principles of monitoring reporting for the verification of greenhouse gas emissions under registration number 9253. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the legal and organizational principles of the reporting system and the verification of greenhouse gas emissions in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, there is a bill that concludes the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption that does not reveal corruption in the draft act. The draft act meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. According to the general conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the first reading of the bill. Of course, the bill has a number of shortcomings. They will be further developed, as we spoke with colleagues, until the second reading. Therefore, our committee suggests that it be supported in the first reading as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u41	Thank you, colleagues. Please record: two in, two in. From the People's Front, Igor Lapin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u42	Please report to Paul Dziblik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u43	Good day, dear colleagues, Paul Dzublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Well, first of all, I want to thank the Ministry for the quality and important work done in preparing this really important bill. Let's say this is the beginning of the mechanism that we should be implementing, and a large number of those tools that will once again be put in place to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So tools like the introduction of quotas. a system for trading quotas for greenhouse gas emissions. And the system will again contribute to improving the environmental situation directly in Ukraine. And yet again, we support the Paris Treaty that we ratified with you in this Parliament. And I hope that all colleagues, like our People's Front faction, support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u44	Thank you. From Fatherland Rybchin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u45	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Dear colleagues, this is a very important bill, primarily for modernizing our industry. You know, our industry is energy-efficient, it uses outdated technologies and it has funding problems. Because the loans currently being issued in Ukraine are very high and foreign funding is very difficult to obtain. This will allow, on the average, this bill, which is a framework bill, where other bills need to be included, including climate finance. You remember that we had Paris. It was whale. The Kyoto protocol, through which our industry has invested resources, our police are traveling on the "priuses" we took from Japan, thanks to the quota trade. The bill allowed the use of the mechanisms of the Paris Climate Agreement, which Ukraine ratified. By the way, our Parliament was the second in the world to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement. Without this bill, it will be very difficult to verify the amount of discards that are on our businesses. And this bill was drafted with our donors by the World Bank, EBRD, with others, and it's a very important framework law so that we can modernize our businesses, help our economy become more energy independent. And that can increase our country's GDP, give us more technology, and create more jobs. This is also part of our Association Agreement with the EU. And for the second reading, we're going to work with the committee's colleagues, and there are some shortcomings in terms of terminology. Well, it's normal when such a complex framework bill is presented in the first reading. So please support, this is a real struggle. This is the implementation of the de facto environmental strategy document that we just approved. So I propose that we unite around this important bill before the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u46	Thank you. You're arguing with John from Peter Dusty's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u47	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block. Please pass the word to Sergio Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u48	Honorary colleagues, in Ukraine about 80 percent of greenhouse gas emissions come from fuel combustion and a low level of technological processes during economic activity. That's a well-known fact. The introduction of these tools, their effectiveness, without real data on these volumes, is simply not possible. There is no single methodical base in Ukraine that does not allow this to happen. So this actually stops the introduction of new and improved market and non-market mechanisms to reduce emissions. We have a commitment to the European Union since the 14th year, this is a specific directive that we have undertaken as a state. What will happen to the state if we approve. And I'm more than convinced, because it's not a political issue, ecology is what everyone needs. First. The implementation of this system will ensure high accuracy, reliability, reliability and comparability of greenhouse gas emissions reports that can be applied for various purposes, from the improvement of public policy in a certain area to the introduction of economic emission control tools. More important to society. Society will allow policy to be more effective, and anomalous phenomena such as heat, rain, floods will be minimised to the extent possible today. The Peter Prashenko faction calls for this bill to be voted on. This is definitely a big step toward the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, and now it's closing. In two minutes, the vote will take place. I ask all the heads of factions to invite deputies to the hall. And the secretariat will report that in two minutes we are moving on to the decision-making process. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Nestor Schufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u50	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, of course, the issue of the principles of monitoring the reporting and verification of natural gas output is very important. And we need to support this bill today. But I've just come back from the region, and if I were to ask people this question, they would have told me about the gas, but about another that they can't pay anymore, because in the last five years, the price of gas has risen 14 times. And the fact that we've reduced the amount of subsidies by almost 20 billion this year is, of course, the real attitude of today's authorities toward people. And you know, I was sad and humiliated today when I saw the Supreme Council avoid investigating corruption in the Ucrobanprom. Our hiding the matter in the old investigation committee means that authorities fear investigating the activities of Gladkowski (Swinarczuk). It's Svinarczuk, that's how I remember him. And I think we should not hide this problem. Create a separate tracking commission. Taking responsibility to expose this terrible theft. And you know, it's not a robbery anymore. When a military conflict, unfortunately occurring in Ukraine, is stolen in the army, it is already marauding.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u51	Mr. Nestor, speak on the subject of the bill. I'm sorry about the bill, if you don't mind. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u52	Mr. Head, I believe that stealing in power is a topic on which we must stand, speak today, and must be held accountable, if not by prosecutors, at least by our investigators. There are both prosecutors and investigators in this room. Let's find a special prosecutor and start the impeachment procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u53	So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. It's principled, isn't it? Okay. Rebirth insists on one more minute. Pisarenko. Colleagues, in a minute of voting, please come into the hall. From Rebirth, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. The theme of the principle is because I think the environmental situation in the country is important for all of us. And it's very good that we're paying attention to that. What I'm saying is that we're going to support all the laws that are going to be aimed at making our citizens live in better conditions. Because, unfortunately, we don't care about the environmental situation today, and we're looking at bills, maybe once a year. So for today, we want to support what comes with such initiatives. But in general, the bill needs further elaboration, cannot be accepted as a whole, and we suggest that it be further developed before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u55	So let's move on to decision-making, colleagues. Everyone, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, all of you, go back to the hall. And I remind you, it's only on the basis of the committee's proposal, and on the basis of all the speakers, they're all in favour. So I'm voting on the draft Law on Principles for Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (No. 9253). Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:43:40]] For 243 Decision taken. And let's move on to the next question of the environmental block. This is a draft of the Law on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases (9082). And please, colleagues, support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support the abbreviated. Please vote. [[16:44:15]] For-142 Guys, I'll put it back on. What's the plan? Keep the abbreviated. Colleagues, support the simplified procedure, we can take a closer look at environmental issues. So I'm putting the vote again to draft Law 9082, which is environmental, we're looking at a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:44:51]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources Semerak Ostap Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u56	Thank you. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, Your Honor Andrija Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! You're looking at a draft of the Ukrainian Act on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases. The purpose of the bill is to regulate relationships in the field of dealing with substances that affect the ozone layer and the equipment that works with its use. Ukraine is a party to the Montreal Protocol, and we must ensure compliance with the range of international obligations set out in this Protocol that we have undertaken to implement. In particular, do not exceed the annual quota for consumption of ozone-depleting substances, ensure that import licences, exports and the control of the circulation of substances are licensed, and report annually on national reporting. In 2012, at the 24th Council of the Montreal Protocol, Ukraine was given a decision not to comply with the protocol. To get out of this situation, Ukraine has made a legislative commitment to regulate ozone - depleting substances and to take proactive measures to reduce the use of such substances. In the event that such obligations are not fulfilled, namely this law called upon to fulfil the obligation, is a threat to the use of sanctions, particularly the total ban on the supply of these substances from the country-by-country parties to the protocol. Considering that the Montreal Protocol has been ratified by almost all countries of the world, Ukraine is an import-dependent country, since its own production is not available in Ukraine, the consequences of such sanctions may be catastrophic for the Ukrainian industry. The adoption of the bill will create the right preconditions for the gradual rejection of such substances. In working on this bill, I would like to say that we worked closely with the factions, and a number of substantive, correct observations were made, particularly by national deputy Viktor Ivanovich Vuk from the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. As for the bill, which contains the requirements of the Kigali Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u57	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u58	Thank you. . which has entered into force in the world, but Ukraine has not yet been ratified. In view of this amendment, therefore, Victor Ivanovich Vuka would like to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u59	Thank you. Fishman Ivan Petrovich is invited to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u60	Dear Mr. Golovo, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases under registration number 9082. The purpose of its adoption, the bill, according to the explanatory note, is to define legal and organizational principles, regulate relations in the field of controlled substances and goods that contain them, which affect the ozone layer and climate change. According to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the bill will require amendments to the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. According to the Committee on Budget Affairs, the bill has a direct impact on the budget's increase in revenue and can take effect according to legislation. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Disaster Management proposes that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u61	Thank you. Please record: two in, two in. Thank you. From the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u62	Bondar Mikhailo, 119th. Please give it to Paul's Doodle.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u63	Paul Jublik, 66 constituency, Žitomirščina. Again, I would like to thank the Ministry of Ecology directly for developing such complex bills. Again, these bills will help to improve the environmental situation directly in Ukraine, reduce emissions into the atmosphere. "The People's Front," I hope, like all other MPs, votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u64	From Fatherland Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u65	Alexy Rybchin, faction of Fatherland. She's a princess. It's very nice that today we have such an ecological "green" day, hopefully the third bill will also be implemented. This is an important bill because it regulates the issue of our international obligations. In fact, we signed in 87. The Montreal Protocol was signed in the 87th year, and in 2012 the Council of the Stones of the Montreal Protocol adopted a decision on Ukraine's failure to comply with the requirements of the protocol. And by 2017, the deadline for the legislative settlement of this issue had already come to an end. And if the Supreme Council fails this vote today, it will make life more difficult for many of our industries, for the shopping malls, because there may be a ban on the export of ozone - depleting substances from other countries. And such a decision could lead to a collapse at all levels where cooling devices are used. I agree with our colleagues, and I thank all colleagues from all the factions who made proposals. This should be voted in the first reading, worked hard to meet our international obligations and protect our manufacturers. It's an important bill. All right, everybody, let's take a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u66	Thank you. From Peter Dustenk's Block, Ruddick Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u67	Indeed, respectable colleagues in Ukraine have made international commitments on this issue. And you know when? Ukraine ratified it in '89. Even then, as a nation, we made a commitment to do everything possible to shorten this history, because it is actually a huge problem. By the 12th year of Ukraine's failure to comply with the Montreal Protocol, we had almost been sanctioned. And if we really don't accept this bill today, these sanctions can actually hit on a very large number of our businesses. So you can understand what this is about. We may be subject to sanctions for imports into Ukraine of air conditioners, refrigerators, freezers, cooling systems that work with the use of refrigerated agents. Do you realize what a disastrous outcome this will have? The Party of Green Ukraine is tasking all governments and parliaments with the task of ratifying this agreement and adopting this bill. But just now, at the fifth year of our Supreme Council, we came to the vote in the first reading. The Peter Prashenko faction calls on all political forces to support this bill, like all two previous ones. Only in this way will we be able to place if not a dot, a great sign of the exclamation in this matter and prepare it more quickly for the second reading vote. We have to do this while the Council is still working. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is going to be Pisarenko's closing statement, but before I give him my word, colleagues, I want to make a message. Attention! You do realize that today at the end of the day we're going to go to the question of the Language Act, there's a lot of rights. I was approached by a number of deputies so that we could move before that series of laws, because they are very important. I'll count them. After this vote, I'll put them on the transfer, but the hall will decide whether or not to do it. So, pay attention, colleagues! The first is a draft of Law 10008: dealing with specific issues of mobilization, civil protection, social protection and social support for individual categories. This is a security law, which has a very important remedy for antitrust activities. I'll move on if the room agrees, because that's the requirement of our partners. We'll move it. First. The other one. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment, by Krivoshia. I suggest we move it, it's a Euro-Integration Law, if the Hall supports it, we move it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u69	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u70	All right, all right, all right, Galasyuk, all right. At Halasyuk's request, the third is the draft Law (9474) on reducing the deficit of black metals, on transfer, if the hall supports it, we will consider it. And the final one, the final one, is a draft of the Culture Act, which stands after the language, 8202. If the room agrees, move. Four votes after that law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u71	I know. Do you have a deal? So everyone can navigate so everyone knows how to vote. I'll ask you four questions after that. Now the closing statement is Pisarenko, and we're moving on to making a decision. Please, Mr. Valérie. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u72	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I mean, first of all, you don't have to run the voting room right now, yes, the bill still needs to be worked on. Our scientific expertise general says we need to get back to work. But if we're going to a meeting with the Ministry and we're helping them to work on the odd issues, we just have to look at it in the first reading. Because there's a lot of comments because it's the lack of communication with the Montreal Protocol that we've just been talking about. So it's actually very good that the Ministry is now paying attention to the need for both the introduction of international legislation and the implementation of very important bills. But I would also like to suggest that when we look at these environmental bills, we talk about the real outcome that people will feel for themselves. Whether it's about discards or whether it's about clean water or other things, because it's so important to us at the moment -- it's not only in the economy that people stay in this country, it's also ecologically and culturally that we have to create comfortable conditions for people, because, besides people looking for where they work, they're also looking for where the quality of life is going to be the highest. And in Ukraine, unfortunately, there are still issues today, both as a result of the Chernobyl disaster and as a result of the state of the Ukrainian infrastructure in general today. It's also the quality of drinking water and the harmfulness of discards from those factories and factories that are still running, but they don't have systems that allow normal cleaning today. So let us watch very carefully when voting for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u73	Thank you. So we finished the discussion. Everyone please come into the hall. We are moving on to the decision-making process, and I remind everyone that once I make the decision, I will be asked to transpose four bills. They are all, as the authors believe, unifying, constructive, and will have the majority in the hall. So now we're voting on this law, and then we're voting on the four transpositions that I've already heard literally a few minutes ago. You're ready, aren't you? Come on in, colleagues, we're taking up jobs. Be responsible, Mrs. Hanna. So I'm voting on the draft Act on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases (9082) on the basis of a committee proposal. Just for the basis. Please vote and please support. Fellows, return to the hall from your beds. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote, Ira. Vote. We're backing it up. Please vote, I'll support ecology. Please vote. Vote. [[16:58:35]] For 240 Decision taken. Welcome to the Ecology Committee, welcome to the Minister. And, colleagues, don't split up, please all take your jobs. I'm going to put it in the order in which I emphasized it. So I'm talking a lot right now. Colleagues, pay attention! What's my offer? Everyone to support each other now, everyone to each other. First, it's a safe law. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, there's a first - metal - mining request. All right, I'll set up the first metallurgical. So, first of all, transfer, it's in order daily in two laws, for consideration, now, the draft Act amending Chapter I of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine's Law on amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the reduction of the deficit of black metals in the internal market (9474). He's all right. Who's to move it, please vote, please back up. Vote, please support, vote. Let's support each other. Security is very important, besides that, the law. [[16:59:50]] For 199 Next, colleagues, it's a safe law. I'm asking you to listen to me right now. It's a draft of Law 10008, but it's important that it has a right to the Anti-Discrimination Act, which is very important, and I stress that it's very important for our partners, for our partners to be able to transfer funds to us, for us to exchange occupied territories that were occupied, where the aggressor was replacing huge territories. I'm asking you to support me, colleagues. So I'm voting on the transposition and inclusion of the daily draft of Law 10008. Please vote, please support. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[17:00:47]] For-163 Colleagues, and the next one, are the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (6235). The author of Krivoshea is convinced that the entire room supports it. So I would like to vote in favour of transferring this bill to review now, 6235. Please vote, please support. 6235 - transfer. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:01:31]] For 209 I'll do it again, Gennady. Okay, I'll re-set the previous law. Colleagues, we still have 20 minutes. Okay, one more time. Okay, now I'm going to put the metal scrape again, but then I'm going to put the curves again, okay? So, colleagues, I'd like you all to prepare. Please be careful when voting. And I call for solidarity, support each other, we have solid half an hour, we can adopt one or two laws. So I'm going to vote again, and then I'm going to vote again, and then I'm going to vote again. First draft of Law 10008. No, no, I'm sorry. Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine regarding the reduction of the deficit of black metal scraps (9474). Is everyone clear? The transfer is now under review. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote in favour of the transfer, and then the guilty party. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:02:50]] For 231 Now, colleagues. Decision taken. Now again, Curly, as we agreed to be honest. Draft Law 6235 is now being transposed. Please vote, please support. 6235. Please vote, please support. 6235, please vote. Where the author of Krivoshea is. [[17:03:18]] For 225 One voice. I'll do it again. I'll do it again. Please transfer 6235 for consideration now, transfer. Please vote, please support. One vote is not enough, please vote. [[17:03:44]] For 231 We've moved on. And, colleagues, by safety law, literally 30 seconds, Irina Heratchenko. Stay where you are. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Bill 10008 is the same situation that we fixed with you today under the Transplant Act, when we passed an extremely important and very expected country law, but we needed to make some changes today to make it work. We have a letter from the embassies of our country's greatest friends, the EU countries and the Great Seven to support the law that we have passed with you on anti-discrimination. But they ask us to consider the following. To amend the law, which will facilitate bilateral funding for the humanitarian activities of the organizations. We are proud that our cooperation between Ukraine and these countries will help save the lives of Ukrainians. And this letter from the embassies of Great Britain, Austria, Slovenia, other countries, is directed not only to the leadership of Parliament, but to the leaders of all factions. And we can, if we don't just vote today for this change to the Law 10008, lose the help that we and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, our bomb squads, the Ministry of Defense are so in need. We ask very much to support the inclusion of now in the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u75	So I'm going to re-vote the proposal to put in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u76	We tried very quickly to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u77	Introduction to the agenda for decision-making of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the settlement of individual issues of mobilization (10008). Please vote. Please support me. [[17:05:44]] For 190 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, the final proposal is to move 8202, the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on improving the system of protection of cultural heritage. Supporter, please vote, 8202. Please vote. [[17:06:14]] For 175 175, colleagues. So, colleagues, we have two laws and then we go to the Language Act. We work dynamically, we work together. I'm the first to bet on it. Which is the first one to put the two of them? The curves first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Make a deal with each other. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, okay, okay, okay. It's a deal, colleagues. As you will, so will you. Okay, I'm going to be the first to review Bill 9474. Please support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. For short. Keep it up, fellows. [[17:07:08]] For-157. Decision taken. I invite the head of the committee on industrial policy for Halasyuk Viktor Valeriovich to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u78	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear colleagues, an extremely important metallurgical bill of 9474, initiated by the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska and co-authorized by members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Its essence. That's a three-year extension of the elevated metal scrap metal duty. And the increase in this rate from 42 euros to 58 euros in order to eliminate the deficit of metal scraps of this important raw material for Ukrainian factories in order for Ukrainian factories to have raw materials, Ukrainian labor and wages, and the Ukrainian army to have weapons and technology of Ukrainian metal. It's the third metallurgical law we've passed with you in Parliament. The previous two worked very effectively. The volume of domestic scrap metal supplies has been increasing for three years in a row. You and I have been able to reduce the metal trade deficit for metallurgical factories from 9 to 2 percent. But today there are new, very sharp challenges. Because the world’s price for scrap metal has increased by 30 percent. Because military aggression against Ukraine continues. Because the leading metallurgical industries of the world — the United States, China, Turkey — have waged a trade war against one another. Because imports of metal products into Ukraine today are significantly higher than exports of metal products. This situation needs to be resolved. So we proposed to raise the export tax to 58 euros per tonne and to continue with this strategically important law for another 3 years. I stress that the rules of law are fully in line with Ukraine’s international obligations to the World Trade Organization and the EU Association Agreement. This is the same situation as the ban on the export of roundwood. In full compliance with international legislation and with Ukraine’s international obligations. It's strategically important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u79	Thank you. Now, please, a minute away from the committee. Please, a minute from the committee is now going to be a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u80	It's a strategically important law for industry because its effect, it's saving 20,000 jobs in the field, it's saving 1.5 billion dollars of industrial revenue in the economy, and it's an extra 1.5 billion dollars of money in the state budget of Ukraine. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship decided to recommend that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis and as a whole as a technical law. We support Ukrainian metallurgy, we support Ukrainian industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u81	Thank you. And please, right now, I'm asking you to sign up for a bill. Please, Leonid Jemetz, your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, Leonid Yemen, the People's Front. Well, actually, I have a very simple proposition. Using an incredible number as for the Ukrainian Parliament of deputies in the session room, as soon as possible to pass the largest number of bills as possible. So I say, "The People's Front" supports this bill, it's going to vote, and we move on to the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u83	Thank you. Please make the next statement. National MP Pisarenko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u84	Thank you. What I'm saying is that our MP group has a slightly different approach. We think we need to work on the bill. And no matter how many people are surprised, we need to work on quality. To date, we will support all the laws that are designed to make our production and our manufacturers feel comfortable in their country. After all, looking at statistics in recent years, nothing is actually done today to make our production and our manufacturer in our territory feel comfortable and comfortable. And I want to remind you that we've had a lot of plans here, a way of giving preferences, benefits to make the conditions for production to flourish in Ukraine, for both the Western investor and our local investor. And I want to remind you, there were very good ideas with industrial parks, but because the authorities don't want to give benefits and comfortable conditions, of course we don't have those comfort and development zones that we can build the whole country on today. I mean, we suggested that one of those zones be the city of Kharkiv. And there are bills that create separate economic zones, like in Kharkiv, where we give special preferences to our own manufacturers and to our own productions. We want to suggest that we keep moving in that direction and rebuild the country. And that's possible if our national manufacturer has better conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u85	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Opanasenko of Self-Help. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in principle, there is nothing about liberalism and market development and the development of the internal market. In fact, it is the creation of monopolistic conditions that will lead to a reduction in the cost of the metal scrap metal that is being collected in Ukraine. Because alternative exports will, in fact, cease to exist at such high times. In fact, this extra margin of price reduction is going to be sitting in a non-market, where, for example, there would be thousands of market participants, it'll just be sitting in the pockets of two oligarchs, unfortunately. In the current system, when the actual transfer pricing does not work, BEPS is still unfulfilled, in fact this margin will go into offshore. My colleagues, please don't support it. It's a completely anti-market bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u87	Thank you. Please make a statement from the Peter Dust Block by Arthur Gerasimov. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u88	Dear Madam Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We ask you, under the transcript, now in the Final and Transitional Positions, to replace "six calendar years" with "five calendar years." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u89	Thank you. And I invite Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u90	Thank you, Your Honor. Let me get out of here. I want to join the debate on this bill, which is why. We have accepted with you, for which I thank each of the 335 people's deputies, the changes to the Constitution regarding our integration into the EU and NATO. And it's obvious that adapting Ukrainian legislation to European norms and standards is our key task. And it is very important that every bill under consideration in this room meet European standards in the same way. It was said during the presentation that exactly the information that didn't fit the reality of the roundwood forest when we voted on the bill, and what created the problem was just as serious in Ukraine's relationship with the European Union. So I propose that we listen to the expertise on this bill to the Committee on European Integration. Whether he's in charge of the Association Agreement or not, we'll create the same problems. I think that would be very right.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u91	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! We, the drafters of the bill, Oleg Lazko, our colleagues from the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, have proposed to increase export duties for scrap metal from 42 euros to 58 euros for an additional 3 years. As soon as Arthur Volodymyrovich had offered to shorten the proposed term for a year. This is certainly worse than what is proposed in the bill. But I think it might be a political compromise to provide a raw material sector to save Ukrainian jobs, to keep foreign exchange in trade balance. So we have to agree with this proposal in order to secure voices, to support Ukrainian industry and metallurgy. Once again, this law, as well as the moratorium on the export of roundwood, is in line with Ukraine's full and international obligations and, above all, the national interests of the development of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian society. Please support in general with the technical legal amendments with the clarification that Mr. Herasimov has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room, and there will be a vote in literally 30 seconds. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session room. I think all the groups and factions had the opportunity to speak on this issue. We are waiting for the Ukrainian national deputies and we will proceed to the vote. Remember, we're looking at Bill 9474.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u93	So, colleagues, I ask everyone to take up jobs, go into the hall, and hopefully, just as much as you will support the Curve Bill, it's Euro-Integration to make everything fair. With Gerasimov's amendment, right, we vote? So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. You agreed, didn't you? I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter II of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the reduction of the deficit of black metals in the internal market (9474) with an amendment that Arthur Gerasimov has made to the stenogram and by the decision of the committee as a basis and as a whole. Please vote with technical law, please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:19:42]] For 219 Okay. I'll bet on my return, colleagues. I'm asking you to invite everyone into the hall. I'm asking all the national MPs to come to the hall. I'll be back. But when you vote, be at work. Please prepare for the vote of all. Please be in the workplace. And please come into the hall, colleagues. Invite all the deputies to the hall. So the first vote is to go back to consideration 9474. Please vote, and please support, for your return. Please vote and please support, for your return. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:20:34]] For the 220. Six votes. Guys, I'll put it back on. The factions, please. The factions. So, colleagues, I'm voting again. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 66, "National Front" – 58, "Resistance Block" – 24, "self-help" – 10, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 11, "will of the people" – 7, "Party of Rebirth" – 9. Everyone please take up their jobs, colleagues. Come into the hall. Six votes. Six votes. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and be in the workplace during the vote. So my first suggestion is to go back to the draft Law 9474. Please vote and please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Everyone, please be in the workplace and vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[17:21:47]] For 237 We're back, colleagues. I have a warning that there will be no non-personal vote. I call on everyone. Okay? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, my colleagues, I'm putting in draft Law 9474, which was amended by Arthur Gerasimov, on the basis of and in general with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote! If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[17:22:32]] For 234 Decision taken. And, colleagues, now 6235. And I also ask everyone to support the procedure first. Colleagues, please be all in solidarity. It's a second reading. Excuse me, this is the second reading. Yes, it will. That's the second reading. And we are going to consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations (6235), and I invite you to the report by Krivoša Hennady Grigorovovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u94	Thank you. Good afternoon. Gennady Krivoshia, faction of the People's Front. Mr. Chairman, honourable national deputies, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call adopted on 20 March 2018 the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (registration number 6235), submitted by the national deputies — me, Mr. Galasyuk, Mrs. Kugel, Mr. Rosenblat, Mr. Nechayev, Mr. Hmila, Mr. Kiral, Mr. Dubinini and Mr. Efimo. This is actually a committee bill. In the process of our first reading, I would like to thank everyone because we are almost unanimous in voting in the hall. Today, the committee came to see us. 216 proposals and amendments have been made to the Committee, of which virtually everything has been rejected, some of which have been partially taken into account, namely the amendments made by Dubnevic, only 21. So I would like us to now as soon as possible, as long as we have time, to consider it and to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u95	Thank you. I'll call the right-wing authors. Please be prepared by all right-wing authors. So 3rd. Don't insist. Four. He insists. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u96	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Article 172 p.m. 1 KUPAP, in fact, lays down the responsibility for non-compliance with technical regulations when assessing the technical regulations. Regrettably, this bill somehow removes this article from the Code of Administrative Offences and properly clears up administrative responsibility for wrongdoing in the area. This is a bit absurd, I think, because there must be standards that would include sanctions, in fact, to ensure compliance with standards when assessing the conformity of technical regulations. Because if there's no sanctions for breaking the rules, then the standards don't make sense as well. This is an obvious rule of general, yes, common sense, even in terms of legal certainty. So, of course, I insist that you remove this moment from the bill so that you do not take away the administrative offence accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u98	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. See, literally a few words, that means 4 of our direction, that is, we're talking about a violation of the conformity assessment procedure should be applied not by administrative, but by civil law to the body, the responsibility, the responsibility of the body to assess compliance with the customer's services. So that's why we just put it in this paper. I ask you to put it to a vote, if there's a decision in the room, then we'll continue in the paper that voted in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u99	Do you insist on voting, Mr. Yuri? I'm betting on the vote on the 4th amendment that the committee rejected. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[17:26:15]] For-96 The decision is not taken. 6th. 7th. 8th. Lechchenko insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u100	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. The bill proposes that a different consumer protection law should be established to inform consumers about certain types of risk or product if it is established by technical regulations. At the same time, according to part four of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment, technical regulations are approved by laws, acts of Kabmin and central executives. In this context, there is a risk that regulatory regulations will impose requirements that limit consumer rights in part of obtaining complete product information or risks when using such products. Therefore, in order to avoid this risk, I propose to exclude the rule on another order of consumer information on products. We have national MPs, I'm addressing you, and that's not how much legislation is being implemented to protect consumer rights. And consumers are completely unprotected in today’s Ukraine. Instead, they are protected, in fact, by the ruling oligarchy and the big business. You're proposing this standard to further reduce consumer protection and create conditions when, in fact, it's going to be at all. They'll make decisions, they'll make decisions. Normatives will be adopted, which will be absolutely harmful to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u101	Do you insist on voting? I'm putting an amendment to the 8th People's Deputy Levchenk's vote, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:27:54]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, pay attention! The reporter tells me that only three people insist on law enforcement. This is Lechchenko, Jacenko and Herasimov. If so, maybe I'll just give them my word not to call it correction? Is that true, Mr. Yuri? Yeah, that's right. Then I give the floor to Mr. Yuri Lewchenk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u102	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This is about my 42 revision. The proposal to cancel the certification of technical and other rehabilitative devices and their components, which are produced in serial production, except for medical products and auxiliary products, and which are extended by the technical regulation on medical products, presents risks of increasing the number of products of inappropriate quality. In addition, persons with disabilities will lose the opportunity to be informed about the manufacturer’s data bank, which can be consulted when necessary to provide the necessary products. The importance of such a decision is particularly relevant to the growing need for quality rehabilitation. In particular, prosthetic or orthopedic products of war participants and war invalids in accordance with article 4 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. On the basis of the above, I propose to remove these laws, which propose to cancel the certification of the technical and other means of rehabilitation that are being prepared for them. I think it's completely absurd, especially in terms of war. It's completely absurd. So you're putting our heroes, the disabled, at risk that they're going to get produce of an entirely inappropriate quality that they're not going to be able to use properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u103	Thank you. Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u104	Thank you. First of all, we're not cleaning anything, and we're not talking about cleaning up certification. Today, it's just certification -- it's more in this area, including, it's more of a, it's a more or less corrupt norm. And it can somehow be used as an abuse by individual officials there. That's why we put and accepted it on the committee and, by the way, we've discussed this issue over and over and over again. Thank you, of course, for noticing, well, the committee made that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u105	Thank you. You insist on voting, don't you? I'm voting 42 people's deputies, Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. Please. [[17:30:13]] For-59 The decision is not taken. The next two are Yatzenko, two revisions. Do you have two minutes? Turn on two minutes. Please, Yatzenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, I have a very technical comment, but I would like to ask for confirmation of the 98 and the 101, which I think are narrowing down state regulations in important areas in which it is necessary for it to be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u107	Please, Mr. Hennaday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u108	We have the position of the committee, and in principle, these are pretty important adjustments. I would, frankly, like them to be voted in general. But if a colleague insists, there is a suggestion to put it, but somehow I will propose to vote on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u109	So you're insisting on supporting these changes, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u110	No, I insist. I insist: at the request of the author, put them to the vote now, but in any case, I'll just put the committee to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u111	There's no such thing. If she's gonna be beaten, she's gonna have to go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u112	We'll go back, then we'll go back, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u113	Okay. I'll bet, first of all, to confirm 98 revisions. The committee supported her and asked her to support her. He's betting on confirmation. So whoever supports the committee, please support it. 98 revisions for confirmation. Please vote, please support. [[17:31:49]] For 115 The decision is not taken. And the next 101 turns. For confirmation. The committee supported her, and the committee asked her to be supported. I'm betting on confirmation of 101 revisions. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:32:17]] For-123 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, all the right-wing authors came forward, right? They're all here. We can move on to making decisions, colleagues. I'm asking all the factions to invite the deputies into the hall right now. Now I'm going to give the final word to the reporter. Colleagues, there'll be a vote in a minute. I strongly urge everyone to enter the hall now. It's a European integration law, colleagues, and I'm very much asking everyone to show a high level of discipline. And invite all the deputies to the hall, heads of factions. Please, Hennady Kryvoshia, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone, first of all, to thank you all for being here, this is a very important bill for our country. One of the main tasks that we see before Ukraine is the prospect of signing an AKKA agreement so that our certificates, or our country's production, are recognized both in Europe and in the world at large. This is going to be a pretty serious focus, regardless of any political points, and the emphasis will be on Ukrainian producers. The adoption of the bill in general is one of the basic conditions for the fulfilment of conditions, there, signed with the European Union. But one way or another, it's a positive thing today, and I'll say it again, for our producers. I'd just like to pay attention, for example, to production, to Ukrainian door manufacturing. In order to obtain certification, to certify this production in Ukraine, the value of this certification is, within 15-20 thousand dollars, in Europe, so that the Ukrainian producer can further certify this product, this is production. This certification is between 5,000 and 7,000 euros. That's a pretty big difference. If we move forward and sign this agreement, we can. We're doing everything we can to make more than 30 countries in the world just calmly with the Ukrainian certificate he gets here, just to sell our products. So this raises the level of production we have in Ukraine, the corresponding additional jobs and the better turnover, and the better relations with Europe. Therefore, it is a great request to organize and vote on the bill. And if you can get back to the 98 and 101, which were unvoted, not supported in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u115	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs. Colleagues, I urge everyone to return to the Hall, this is a Euro-Integration Act, which is very important for the implementation of our map on the implementation of the Association Agreement. So I ask everyone to see who's not around, invite them to the hall, prepare for the vote. First I'm going to go back to the right and then I'm going to put the law in place. So please all take part in the vote. Colleagues, every voice will matter, please come back. So first of all, at the reporter's suggestion, I'm putting the vote back on the 98 and 101. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. For the right-hand man's return. [[17:35:54]] For 171 We're not back. Now I'm making a law without a right. Colleagues, come in. Don't leave the hall. Please, everyone, take your seats. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on technical regulations and conformity assessment (No. 6235) in the second reading and in general with technical law. Colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Euro-integration law. Please support everyone. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:36:56]] For 185 My colleagues, I understand that there are no votes actually because the two revisions have been introduced. Colleagues, come into the hall. Everyone, come into the hall. I'll be right back. Please, Hennaday, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to focus once again and the questions that we have about some of these points, I would like to say that in this law, what is relevant to the Security Service, including this technical norm, is a technical norm. We worked on it on the committee, Alexander Volodymyrna wouldn't let us lie, we worked on it for more than two years. Here comes Sergei Kiral, who is the co-author, who will give you this confirmation for you guys. The first time we registered this bill, it was in the first bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, put it on. If you have one. I got it. He's a co-author, he's on our committee. If you want to correct this amendment, I don't want to have a bill. Because of one amendment, we failed the whole bill, which is pretty important to us. We worked on it on the committee. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u117	Give me an offer, how can I put it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u118	I suggest more. Do you have a note? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm once again, my esteemed colleagues, who have any comments on the factions at all? I can see there isn't. Thank you. There's only one in Self-Help. Self-help, don't you vote? I just have an understanding. Your offer? Please have a word, Tanya.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u119	Colleagues, discussion over. My usual request is that you come to the reporter, he'll sound, he'll sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u120	I'm in charge of the session, not the reporter. So, colleagues, can you formulate a law? Can I make that up? No, yes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll be right back. I propose to return to draft Law 6235. I'm asking you to vote and I'm asking you to support the return. Please vote, colleagues, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[17:39:28]] For 171 Less votes. Colleagues, that's me. If the chairman of the committee doesn't propose any other form, I'm going to re-read it so that we don't lose the bill in general. You will be able to work on the committee during the discussions. So, colleagues, now I'm going to re-read it. Yeah? Please make a suggestion, I'll put it with her. Please, Hennaday. And come into the hall. Don't leave, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction proposes to delete an article that deals with amendments to the Ukrainian Security Service bill. There is one change and one article. Tanya, what's the 19th article? Article 24, paragraph 19. There is only one change that applies to this bill. I just don't think there's any point in just breaking the law, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u122	So, attention, colleagues. I'm dealing with an adjustment that Hennaday made.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u123	We're not ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u124	I'll bet. Colleagues who want to go back to the bill, and I'm going to give him the sound of that amendment that he made from the General Court of Gennady. You hear me, right? With this amendment, please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. [[17:41:07]] For-173 173, colleagues. So I'm putting it on the committee for work right now. This will unite the hall. Please, let us join the committee for a second reading. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. It's a compromise position so we don't lose the bill as a whole. Please support everyone, colleagues. So I am voting on the proposal that the draft Law on the introduction of technical regulations and conformity assessment (No. 6235) should be sent to the Committee for the preparation of a second reading. Please vote and please support. Vote, support, colleagues. We support everything in order, we vote. It's a compromise position, support it. [[17:42:04]] For-189 And the final offer is to get the subject back. No, no longer can the subject of the legislative initiative, a colleague. Colleagues! Gennady, let's try again. Colleagues, show me, please. I'll put it back again. Block of Petra Poshenko – 50, National Front – 60, Opposition Block – 15, Self-help – 15, Radical Party – 10, Fatherland – 9, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 5. Gennady! No, the discussion is over. So once again, in closing, I propose to return to the vote. Once in a while, I propose to return to the vote for draft Law 6235. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:43:11]] For 193 Colleagues, I have no choice but to announce that draft Law 6235 has been rejected. Overruled, colleagues. Now, colleagues, I have two applications. I'll ask around. I'll ask around. Colleagues, pay attention! One of them is from BPP and the will of the people. Just a show, no breaks? It's just a performance. Copy that. The second is from the Opposition Block and Rebirth. Guys, it's just a performance. It's just a performance. Locked down. So, two three-minute speeches, and we're going to consider the Language Act. We're starting the discussion, I mean. Now, according to the Law, I have to give two performances from two factions. Just the speeches, I'm the one who made the decision. First of all, I invite you to speak from the factions of Peter Prashenko's Block and the will of the people, the head of the "Peter Prashenko Block" by Arthur Gerasimov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u125	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Representatives of the media! Dear Ukrainians! A few days ago, we all saw the shadow headquarters of the election pyramid of Ulysses Volodymyrni Timoshenko exposed. And most cynically, they found Russian curators. Today we have all seen how the political power of Yulia Timoshenko, its representatives hysterically cried out about the need to uphold the rule of law, made loud statements about the theft and the need to bring everyone to justice immediately. So all these statements are common to Julia Timoshenko and her team of manipulations, deceptions and the desire to be liked by the voters. In fact, its political power is actively buying voter votes. The Fatherland representatives demanded the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate abuses published in journalistic investigations. So, dear colleagues, today the media has published material from a journalistic investigation called "Pyramida Timoshenko. One area was allocated a billion dollars per vote." The material says that law enforcement authorities have found a pyramid budget, which is set out in a list of expenses for both agitators and voters. Journalists point out that the pyramid of Julia’s voter, Timoshenko, can cost at least a few billion dollars. An even greater concern is the investigation of journalists into the opaque financing of the Yulia Tymoshenko electoral fund. There are reasonable suspicions that this has to do with the laundering of funds obtained by criminal means and the illicit enrichment. Where did she steal them? It is also suspected that it is Russian money. We hope that all the media that reprinted the first Ucrobanprom investigation on Tuesday will not ignore today's information. Unknown funds from unknown sources masked by unknown people should not lead to falsifications. So we demand the immediate establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to verify the facts of the voter bribery in the election pyramid of Timoshenko and the suspicion of money laundering obtained by criminal means through its electoral fund. We also call on Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko to form a mandate for the investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u126	From the opposition block faction and the rebirth group to the word. Okay. One minute, it's a replica. And then I'll give you my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u127	Sobolje, Fatherland. When this person, who has done all he can to get the Russian troops to come in here with Gorkini, his assistant, think about it, the assistant national deputy of Ukraine, Bezler, who directs all operations in eastern Ukraine, and this person allows himself to talk about Russian money, tell Prashenko not to pay any copies into the Russian Federation's budget first. And when he resigns as President, he will have the moral right at least not to sit on the bench of defendants. Here's your advice, you and your political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u128	From the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth to the word, Wilkul is invited. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u129	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! Many times in this room we have approached a coalition and have suggested that we stop tearing society apart and removing the so - called language bill from the order of the day. Moreover, we have gathered in support of our initiative more than a million signatures, more than a million Ukrainians supported our initiative for the right of people to speak and learn in their own language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u130	In fact, the appearance of this language law is related to the fact that Peter Prashenko has his own Tomos, and the speaker, Andri Parubius, has decided to make his own little "tomosic" and that is why today he is contradicting this Language Act. Its purpose is to prevent millions of Ukrainians from speaking their own language. And we know that this was the condition of Andria Paris for the presence at the meeting of Peter Prashenko and his support, that you were given a command to vote for this shameful law. But we know that in many factions there are a lot of intelligent people's deputies who understand that it's nonsense that understands that it's disintegrating society. This law has the term "public humiliation of the Ukrainian language." And you're trying to compare it to public abuse of the national symbols of Ukraine, such as the Flag, the Hymn, Herb. What humiliation is, however, is not prescribed. If we communicate in Russian or Hungarian, is that humiliation or not? If the seller in the store responded in Russian to the pensioner's language, is that humiliation or not? This is not prescribed in the law. And who's going to make that decision? A boy or someone like him? The other one. Attempts at official status and the introduction of regional languages are generally likened to actions aimed at violent change and the overthrow of the constitutional system. Clearly, it's bullshit. That is, for the implementation of European Charter standards as national minorities for 10 years in prison. What are you doing? This is nonsense in a European country in the 21st century. We will protect the rights of people to speak their own language. Don't take us to the Middle Ages. Don't put in place the principles that were last introduced in Nazi Germany in the 1930s. Do not vote for this shameful law. Listen to your sanity. I appeal to you, master MPs. Thank you. And now we're handing over the signatures to the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u131	Take them now, yeah Dear colleagues, so much has been said of me. I'll give you an answer. Indeed, I have done my whole life to accept the Law on Language. I'll remind you, it wasn't long ago when I had to stand up to the Kielczynka-Kivalova Act. But I'm sure that at the time the entire Ukrainian people supported the position that we have today to start implementing. Because the Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language is the fundamental foundation of the existence of a State and a nation. And they're getting so mad because that's the law we're beating at the very heart of the Russian world, we're beating at the very heart of the Russian world that wanted to destroy Ukraine. Colleagues, especially in the context of the struggle for Ukraine, have gained the primary security significance of speech for independence. And it's not just about identity, it's not just about history, it's about security, it's about Ukrainian national security. And we will not let ourselves get out of our way, nor will we let ourselves be led astray. No one will stop us on the road to the approval of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian future. And I'm announcing the transition to the draft law on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I emphasize that we have a separate Act on National Minorities, the language of national minorities. This is the law on the protection of Ukrainian language, which was destroyed by the Valyv decrees, the Emir decrees, which were destroyed by the Soviet Union. And we have a historic chance, my friends, we all have a historic chance to bring back the justice of the hundreds of years that the Ukrainians have been waiting for. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich, and I declare that I continue to meet for 15 minutes because the law is large, I will give it to the head of the committee for a report for 15 minutes. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I will briefly disprove the few fairies who have been distributed here before we all begin to understand that there is no criminal prosecution in the law for any action. The story of 10 years in prison is that illiterate people are told by illiterate MPs, there's nothing similar in the law. And the fact that language is a national symbol was decided by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 1999. [[Applause]] Now we're going directly to, in fact, the perfect moment. Because, as you know, we've had this Language Act since 89. It was by the Language Law that we began to build a Ukrainian independent state. It was with this law that Ukrainian students went out for starvation, and then they went out to Ukraine during one Maidan, the other Maidan. In defense of this law, people went out into the Midian language. Desiring to adopt this law, Ukrainian soldiers are now protecting Ukrainian land. After all, 85 percent of Ukrainians consider the Ukrainian language to be their native language, according to the study of the Centre of Luzumkov. Unfortunately, this law was repealed by the Constitutional Court after it was actually violated by the so-called Koleschenka-Kivalova Act. We're the only country in our region that doesn't have the State Language Protection Act today. It is owned by Poland and does not speak Russian or German because it was a colony of Russia, Germany. It is owned by the Baltic countries, and it is owned by Slovakia. Even Russia, which is protected here by these people who came out here, has such a law. They don't want this law, because they hope that in the parliamentary elections they can take a rematch, they can destroy Midan's gains, they can burn down all the achievements that you and I have achieved in this room by reviving the Ukrainian song, the Ukrainian film, by starting to build a quality Ukrainian state. The law certainly does not separate anyone, and the law unites society. He meets the needs of those millions of Ukrainians in the East who have become violently rused, and now they want to learn Ukrainian language, who love their language, who ask us to adopt this law. In no way does he offend the rights of national minorities, since the law states that for six months the government will give the Law on the Protection of Other Languages and Other National Minorities. I was deeply outraged by the performances of the Oposlak representatives, who here were allowing the very insult of the Ukrainians, the Hungarians, the Russians on a language basis. In principle. We live in a democratic country, and we will never allow such puppets of the invaders to insult any of our fellow citizens, no matter what language they speak, what language they speak. Dear Mr. Head, I just want to go straight to some facts. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on December 19th reviewed the draft Law on ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language (No. 5670-d), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 4, 2018. I would like to thank, in part, my colleagues from the People's Front, the faction of Peter Poshenko, the Self-Help faction that worked on this law, the Fatherland, the Will of the People, the Rebirth, the deputies of all factions, all the democratic deputies who co-sponsored this law, who worked with us on the committee with the Ministry of Culture, with the public, with the social organizations. Thank you all for being in this room. The bill was submitted with 2,000 82 allowances from the national deputies, 1,233 were rejected, and others were taken into account in whole, in part or in the committee. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 5670-d in the second reading and as a whole, as proposed by the Committee on Legal and Technical Rights of the Supreme Council. Dear Mr. Head, I ask you to continue our meeting for 15 minutes. Yes, thank you. Mr. Head says he went on. Then. You know, we've seen a lot of these movies that say that the oligarchs seem to want to split society apart. In fact, the oligarchs are doing everything they can to prevent this law from being passed. These oligarchs who support this law, you will now see in a small film that was prepared by the initiators of this law: "Oligarcha" Malkovich, "Oligarcha" Zabrzeko, "Oligarcha" Portnikov, "Oligarcha" by Crimean Tatar Ahtem Seitablaev and many other honest citizens of Ukraine who understand what our responsibility is to our children and to future generations who understand that without adopting this law now we will lose a huge chance and risk having that rematch of villains and colonizers who have tried to come to this rostrum. Dear Mr. Head, please show this short film.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u133	Please put the film on the monitors, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u134	Dear friends, I have a table, I have a presentation, but we're only going into this bill, and we're going to be able to discuss the rights. Once again, I want to disprove the fairy tales here. The law firmly protects the status of the Ukrainian language as a national language, but it does not regulate the private communication of the language of religious rituals, the creation of no language police or inspectors, and there is no criminal responsibility. The use of other languages is also not limited, but is protected by Ukrainian language. And the use of minority languages, the Crimean Tatar language, will be regulated by another law, and this is explicitly stated in article 2, which is to be developed and submitted to Parliament by the Cabinet of Ministers for six months. You don't have to give all the citizens exams, you have to create a certification center, and according to the work of this certification center, you just have to create language standards. The exams should consist of government officials who, unfortunately, do not speak the language and who cannot prove that they know or have studied the language. So only two organs are created -- this is the National Commission, which I'm talking about, of the standards of the national language, and the Authorized for the protection of the national language. The work of the Authorized to keep an eye on those bodies that already exist: Consumer Rights Society, National Television and Radio Broadcasting Council, other regulators. A rightful person will make a provision for them if they fail to comply with the Language Law, just as NAZC now makes a provision to ministries and authorities. At the same time, in a few years' time, the law will make Ukraine and the West, and in the East, people who receive special education at appropriate centres, as the law stipulates, will be able to free themselves to speak the national language, and older people will have it at the level of their children who are now in schools and in Donetsk and Luhansk and in Odessa, more than 80 percent will voluntarily attend schools with Ukrainian language. Hopefully we'll do this interesting and quality job and start working. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m1.u135	Heroim Slava! Colleagues, and next week, we will be able to take down all of these myths that are trying to hang on this law, do a great explaining work, convincing both society and our colleagues -- the importance and fundamentality of the Ukrainian Language Act. I am sure that this week we will not talk about political debates, but we will talk about eternity, we will talk about Ukraine and we will talk about our future. And I welcome the beginning of this law. We had an important day today. The extremely important bills that were adopted today demonstrated that the Ukrainian Parliament works in the most difficult times, in the hottest times of the electoral race, the Ukrainian Parliament is the center of stability and work. Hello, everybody! And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Congratulations, fellows!
