ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please take up your jobs and prepare for registration. You're ready, aren't you? I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:04:26]] 358 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleagues:Volodimir Vladimirovich Zubik. We welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] And Alexia Petrovich Musak. Hello. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I would like to point out that today is a very important day. I believe the day will be productive. We have very important questions in our agenda. I'm sure today we're going to have to consider a draft regulation on the preliminary report of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate information about the attacks on Catherine Gandzük. I think it's a matter of honour for our Parliament. Some suggested that we put him up yesterday when there were 130 people in the hall. And I'm very surprised at the position of those deputies who publicly claimed that this project was supposed to stand yesterday. It should be a timely, higher concentration in the hall when there are enough deputies in the hall. Today, colleagues, we need to consider a number of issues that are essential to our international relations, including several ratifications between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar. Today, we have to consider the changes to the National Budget of Ukraine, which provides funding for local communities. And I'm sure everyone in the room understands the importance of this law. And finally, colleagues, today we're going to go to the Law on Principles for the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State-based State and for the Ukrainian People of Law. And whoever plans to block the rostrum, break down the Council's meetings, I want to tell you the sad news: you can't do anything! Under any circumstances today, we will go to the Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian Language as a State Language. We have a very important day ahead of us. We have a very ambitious day ahead of us. I'm asking everyone to adjust to work, colleagues. I would also like to remind you that yesterday we did not complete our consideration of draft Law 3665 of the Law on Mediation. We've started the law review. We're done on the right hand side of 251. And so I invite you to the rostrum of the reporter Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich. And I want to remind you that we did last night. At the morning meeting yesterday, they agreed that the next amendment would be number 251. And I immediately give the floor to the author of the Oleni Shkrum amendment. And I call on the committee and right-holders to work more dynamically. There are many rights left, and we have many very important questions in order of the day. Please, Mrs. Olena. Turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u2	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Good morning, colleagues. Today is, indeed, an important day. We are finalizing a bill that has been pending its consideration for more than two years. It's been over a year since the first reading. And this bill on so-called mediation. What mediation is, is one of the non-judicial means of alternative dispute resolution, which must at least unload our case-law before we carry out judicial reform and the courts begin to trust, and a little bit show investors that we are ready for alternative dispute resolution and we can make this a fair, right, transparent issue. And my amendment refers specifically to the status of mediators and the register of mediators. I thank you very much for the work that was done and the reporter -- the head of Mr. Alexey's subcommittee, and the Mediators' Association, and the Mediators' Institute, and all the mediators that joined, and all the co-authors of this law. An important law that I am going to ask very much for support, and I am going to explain my amendments. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u3	Thank you, ma'am. They distracted me and I didn't hear it. Do you insist on voting? All of it. As one of the drafters of the bill, Ms. Alona expressed her position on the terminology of mediation. We're moving on. Colleagues, if I don't mind. Mr. Dolzhenko, here's your correction. Are you insisting? Thank you very much. National MP, are you insisting on your amendment there? Oh, no? Thank you. Please return to 244 revisions. It's an amendment to the people's MP. People's MP. 241 repairs? I'm sorry. Please turn on the microphone to the national MP, Markevich. He wants to go back to one of his repairs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u4	Colleagues, I'm asking you to place on my confirmation my order 224, it's accounted for, but I'm asking you to take it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u5	224 revisions. We'll get back to her. And what is your motive for this, the hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u6	Why? It's about replacing 25 years for 30 years. I suggest you leave for 25 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u7	Okay. Will there be a comment from the committee? Dear colleagues, this is the amendment of the author himself who asks her to be removed. The committee took this amendment into account, and this is about the age of those who may be involved in the mediation process. I'd like to make a statement. The author's amendment is 30, he's asking to be removed by 25 years. Please be sure. [[10:11:28]] For-35 Your offer didn't pass. It's left to the committee: 30 years -- the age of those who might be involved in the mediation. Odarchenko. He doesn't insist on his amendments. 315th, Anointed, National MP. Please, 315 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u8	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. I'm sorry, not 315th, but if you don't mind, 284th, I missed something. See, this applies to the only register of mediators. I don't understand why the Supreme Court, in the final version proposed for second reading, is involved in the register of mediators, which publishes general lists of Ukrainian mediators, using data and so on. I mean, the Supreme Court reformed has nothing to do with just making lists of mediators. I think that a register should be run by some other government authority, or an independent mediator community, which may be created by the results of this law. So I ask you to vote 284. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u9	Thank you. Please identify 284 amendments that the author believes are more precise in determining the body that is to create this letter of mediators. [[10:13:10]] For-51 The correction is being rejected. Next up, Anointed, please. 315th now. Yeah? No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u10	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Amendment 311. What are we talking about? This is about the reasons for drawing the mediator to disciplinary responsibility. At the moment, there is no reason at all for the second reading. I'm proposing this edit, this right here, to take concrete steps. That is, the mediator’s responsibility is to engage in activities that are incompatible with the activities of the mediator; to break the rules of professional ethics; to make known the information that he has become aware of; and to do wrong or to do wrong. If there is no such thing, we cannot then control absolutely how the so - called mediator works, how he works, and what principles. That's why I'm asking you to back my bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. And I'd like to make a statement for 311 amendments. [[10:14:22]] For-60 The correction is being rejected. 315th. Anointed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u12	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction. Up to 315 revisions I have no comments, let it be rejected. And 316th, next, my turn is global. It refers to adding a completely new article, which unfortunately is not available in the draft draft of the second draft of the Mediation Bill, which describes what the status of mediation is in general, as follows: "Stopping and ceasing the right to practice mediation." So we're doing the same thing in fact with other legislation that already exists and works, for example, with the Law on Lawyers, which clearly states how the mediator stops and stops. To date, we have not included any disciplinary responsibility or this chapter that relates to stopping or quitting. So today we find that the mediator of the future, he will be totally unhindered without any disciplinary responsibilities, and in fact his activity cannot be stopped or stopped. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u13	I'd like to make a determination for 316 amendments. [[10:15:52]] Z-71 The correction is being rejected. 330, Anointed. Don't insist. Now, now, Mrs. Alona. What's that? Scream, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u14	I'm sorry, Madam Chairman, we still missed 297, I have to explain. I will not insist on voting, but explain to the mediator's rights how we agreed on this amendment in the working group. Well, the mediator is actually right, and he has the right to do his work, to get information from the parties, to determine for himself the method of mediation, to refuse mediation if he has a conflict of interest. And this was a very important discussion for us. And there was also a discussion about the so-called confidentiality of the mediation process. So the mediator can't be involved as a witness and can't then be questioned in the mediation trial he was conducting. It's very important to increase trust. That's why I don't insist on voting on this. But it's very important that both the mediators and Ukrainians and investors and businessmen understand that we've discussed this issue, prescribed it, and, literally, reached consensus on each side of the working group and after the working group with the mediators of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u15	Thank you for your clarification. And we're moving on. 338 revisions. Anointed One does not insist. He insists. 338, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u16	Andrey Pomazanov, People's Front faction, 338. I'm not going to insist on her vote, because I understand there's no potential in this room today. I just want to point out that all of my amendments have involved, however, increasing the effectiveness of the institution of mediation that we are trying to introduce into our legislation and into our legal practice. But unfortunately, both the committee and the hall today and yesterday did not support my main remarks on the anti-corruption of mediators, on the professional experience of mediators, on the disciplinary responsibility of mediators, on stopping or stopping the work of a mediator. So for today, I will no longer insist on my work because I consider it a completely empty matter. And I don't think without these rights that I've stressed, this law has no right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u17	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, in view of Mr. Pomazanov’s statement that he would not insist on his other amendments, and that there would be a number of amendments, I would like to ask everyone to return to the session room in just 2-3 minutes. And there are some other amendments to Alona Shkrum, of course. Please, 343rd. Mrs. Scrum, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u18	Yeah, first 343, and then I'll ask you to put in 333. It's not my amendment, it's counted, but I have 333 to explain. About 343. Colleagues, we have a terribly busy Ukrainian court today. And this is one of the problems why Ukrainians cannot get a fair trial. Because when you go to court even in a small dispute, you will have to wait sometimes after six months, sometimes more for the court to decide. For example, according to the statistics that we have seen with the mediators, including in a court of cassation for one judge, there are more than two cases per month without weekends, without Saturdays, without Sundays, without public holidays. So every day, every court judge has to deal with at least two cases in order to get into the schedule he's scheduled for. Similarly, on a cassation complaint: Nearly three cassation complaints are to be considered every day. Similarly, in many Courts of Appeal, for example, in areas where statistics are available, there are about 2.6-2.8 cases per judge every day and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u19	Thank you, I get the point. I very much ask you to identify yourself as amended by 343 Mrs. Skrum and her colleagues: Rybčina and other national deputies. [[10:20:00]] For-57 The correction is yours to refuse. And I ask you to return now to 336 amendments to the People's Deputy of Semimenah. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u20	Semenha Roman, Self-Help Unit. Respectful colleagues are, of course, required in order to guarantee that the principle of confidentiality of information on mediation is respected, the imposition of a specific responsibility for breaching this confidentiality requirement is necessary. However, the draft of the second - reading bill provides that for disclosure without the written consent of the parties to the information that has become known to them during the mediation, individuals are responsible under the law or contract. At the same time, the rejection of my right, which introduces the possibility of attracting the guilty to administrative responsibility, may have a negative impact on compliance with confidentiality requirements, particularly at the level of confidence in the mediation process in general. In addition, it was proposed that the Civil Code be supplemented by a requirement similar to that of the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Conciliation since 2002. This is a requirement to stop the limitation period in case the parties enter into a mediation agreement. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u21	Thank you. I'm asking for 336 amendments. [[10:21:22]] Z-62 The correction is being rejected. Next, 300. I remember your request, Mrs. Skrum, 333rd, we're at the end of it, and now your 354th. Please, Mrs. Scrum, 354th. Ah, Mr. Rybkin. Please, Alexei Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u22	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland faction, Donetsk. I'm asking MPs to consolidate around this bill, it's very important, because mediation, as a fair solution to disputes, allows many problems to be solved. My rights include relations between people and legal persons. This amendment will help, including the launching of a bill on a non-legal Ombudsman, which I hope will be put to the vote. It's an institution that helps settle disputes between people, between a small business in the sky, with frauds that include incomprehensible payments that shut down businesses that don't know what they're doing. they place counters and force people to pay 500, 600 dollars for bringing them to standard conditions. The Mediation Act is very important for other institutions to start pretrial dispute settlement because, unfortunately, our judicial system is not now available to a large number of people who, due to huge tariffs, do not have the opportunity to have too much money to appeal to the courts against energy monopolies. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u23	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a decision on 354 amendments. [[10:23:04]] For-57 The correction is being rejected. Please turn on Mrs. Scrum's microphone now. She asked for 333 amendments. It's not her amendment, it's the amendment of the people's deputies Alexiev and Amazanov, it was counted by the committee, 333rd. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u24	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Fellows, there aren't many rights left, but I still have to explain them and explain to Ukrainian viewers what mediation is. To date, we have a commitment to the European Community, the European Union, to the Agreement on a European Association on what we need to settle and make available issues of non-judicial dispute resolution. It's both mediation and negotiation, and other alternative means of settling disputes, when there's no confidence in Ukrainian judges and Ukrainian courts, people, investors want to count on other options to resolve their dispute and solve their conflict. So this is an extremely important mechanism. In addition, if we put it in place and do it properly by this bill, and it goes into effect, Ukraine immediately gets about three points to the so-called "DoingBusiness" rating, which is also viewed by Ukrainian investors and foreign investors. So this is very important, and I would like to ask you to simply unite around this law. Thank you. Please, I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u25	Are you insisting, Mrs. Allona? It's easy, Alona. Mrs. Alona, we don't understand what you're saying, do you insist that we vote it out? She won't back up then. Is that your explanation now simple, your position? Please, the microphone. I just didn't get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u26	I'm sorry, colleagues. I reported the next amendment because you said we'd be back in the end by 333.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u27	Oh, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u28	As for 333, I can give you a separate explanation, if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u29	Okay. So this was your position, which you don't insist on, but it was your 373rd amendment. I get it. Mrs. Allona doesn't insist. 363rd. People's deputy to Semenha. Don't insist. Colleagues, there's really only a few amendments left. 370th Semenha. Don't insist. I ask you very much to return to the session room. Okay, now, me. 206th. I'll write it down and then I'll give it to you. We, colleagues, have two amendments that have been made before, but the authors ask us to go back to them. I'll do it in the end with your permission not to lose the canvas of our discussion. Next amendment to 383, 84th. This is also national deputy Shkrum and then Sidorovich. 384th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u30	Thank you. Thank you, colleagues. All my amendments relate to changes to other codes of Ukraine. Since mediation can be applied both in administrative matters and in small matters of administrative misconduct, and in labour disputes where there are disputes, for example, about dismissals, as workers consider it illegal to compensate for dismissals, on other employment issues. And, indeed, these things are extremely important because they allow without much cost to the court, without a long wait, until the dispute finally reaches a trial and is concluded in court, to settle this dispute. And in addition, to settle it, not by means of a judge who, in principle, listens to the position of the parties and then decides who is right or wrong or who is seeing the development of this conflict, but a mediator who is a qualified negotiator. It took at least 90 hours to learn how to negotiate and find consensus among people. Both in Great Britain and in Europe and in the United States, mediation is applied much more in various small disputes and conflicts than in court. So I'm going to ask you to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u31	Thank you. Please identify 384 amendments. [[10:27:27]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. Next. Please turn on the microphone for national MP Sidorovich. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u32	Ruslan Sidorovich, Self Help Union. Amendment number 320, it's kind of technical on the one hand, but if we want to write laws that work, we have to write down those definitions that are complex and clear about what's written there. I'm asking you to add the words "mediation organizations" before the words "mediate union." Because in paragraph 2, where there's a phrase "provide the appropriateness of the specialization of the mediator" it's not really clear what organizations are supposed to do that. In my view, it's really necessary for this sentence to write a "meditators union" in order to make it clear in this article, who's making this right. Therefore, I ask that Amendment 320 be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u33	Colleagues, I ask to be determined by amendment 320, which relates to the integration of mediators. Please be sure. [[10:28:45]] For-61 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 386th National Deputy Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u34	Thank you, colleagues. Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. 366th, my amendment, my colleague Rybczyn's amendment and my colleague's amendment, unfortunately, has been rejected. Although this amendment is precisely called upon to reflect the idea of the possibility of mediation at any stage of conflict resolution or dispute that corresponds to the uniform position of the bill's article, it amends the other codes of Ukraine in this regard. Why is this important? Because we really need to encourage people to resolve disputes in a different way than in a court of law. And, for example, if a person is willing to go to the other side of the court during the dispute, the court can give him 30 days, for example, or some time, to hold this mediation. This is going to save money for the state budget, it's going to save the time of the judge and the judiciary, it's actually going to help solve the dispute in a more peaceful process than the trial in court. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u35	Thank you for your clarification, dear colleague. And I'm asking you to determine for amendment 386. [[10:30:16.]] For-63 The correction is being rejected. We've only got three adjustments left, colleagues. I ask you very much to return to the session room. Please, 388, Alona Skrum. Will you take the floor? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u36	Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. Excuse me, colleagues, I'm about to take all the amendments that are left: 388th, 393th and so on. And then I'll ask you to go back to the 333 we talked about. This amendment of mine also refers to changes in other legislation. In fact, other legislation needs to be brought into line with the media. We will ask, including the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to bring their legal acts into line so that we have the same terminology and so that, in fact, the mediation procedure is prescribed not only on paper, not only in law, but also in order to make it available, and in the course of the trial, the judge also offers colleagues, parties to the dispute, or to make a peace treaty, if they want, or to conduct a mediation that leads to a peace agreement on expectations, or, well, otherwise alternatively, to settle this dispute. This will, once again, unload the Ukrainian courts and restore a little confidence in the dispute settlement process, including these alternative mediation processes. Please, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u37	Finish up. Please, 388 amendments, I'm asking you to identify your colleagues. Please. [[10:32:06]] For-69 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment. Ms. Alona Skrum insists, 393, but she's partially counted. Are you insisting? Yes, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u38	393 The amendment also applies to bringing into conformity with the Cabinet of Ministers its sub-laws in order for the term "mediation" to appear there and the possibility for judges, for other participants in the dispute to actually refer to this procedure. It is our expectation that this will have a serious impact on Ukraine's compliance with its commitments to the Association Agreement -- and we will finally fulfil our commitments in this area. And secondly, it will seriously affect the so-called Doing Business rating, which unfortunately is looked at, well, or fortunately, by international and Ukrainian investors when they come in and they want to invest money in Ukrainian infrastructure, in Ukrainian businesses, in Ukrainian business. And so we're going to go up at least three points with this bill, and we're going to get ahead of many countries right away. I think it's going to be a positive signal for investors, and I'm going to ask for a lot of mobilization, and I'm going to support this, on the one hand, very simple, on the other, very important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u39	Thank you. Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist. Colleagues, there are two amendments that the authors wanted to draw your attention to. I want to give the floor now to the People's Deputy Semensi, 206 amendments. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u41	Now, one minute, I'm going to see that this is the amendment of the Semeniche People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u42	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for the opportunity to make a sound at number 206. Dear colleagues, the law suggested that the terms of the agreement should be properly settled and that it should be enforced if it did not take place voluntarily. This requirement works successfully in Europe. It's been foreseen by the European Parliament and Council Directive since May 21st, 18th. The point is that Member States should ensure that the party, once given the clear agreement of the other parties, has the opportunity to demand the enforcement of the content of the agreements as a result of such a mediation. Exceptions to the general rule may be the contradiction of the requirement of Member State legislation or the lack of enforcement in legislation. In doing so, the enforcement of such an arrangement may be provided by the court itself. The amendment clearly regulated the terms of reference to the court regarding the enforcement of such a requirement and the accompanying documents to it, the terms of the application by the court, and the consequences of the proceedings and the sole grounds for refusal to satisfy the claims. Please support the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u43	Thank you. Let's ask a comment from the committee's distinguished reporter, Igor Alexeyev, or we haven't given a word to the committee in a long time. 206 amendment. Please. The amendment committee rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u44	Dear colleague, we have considered your proposals, and once again, I would like to point out that the philosophy of this bill, which was developed jointly with the community of professional mediators, was the position on maximum regulation of the process. That is to make a framework law based on key positions relating to access to a profession, requirements for a mediator. The rest of the questions will in fact be put to judgment, first of all, pages. Not even the mediator, but the parties that, once again, voluntarily come to this, no one forces them to do that, it's their free will to involve the third party. And they're already going to decide how to organize the process and make a positive decision in their own business.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u45	Thank you, colleagues. And I'm asking you to define 206 amendments. [[10:36:14]] For-59 The correction is being rejected. Please turn on the microphone. At the same time, I appeal to my colleagues that we have already been amended and we will not go back because it will be a violation of the Rules. Please, Mrs. Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you, taking this opportunity to thank the initiators of this bill, including Aloni Shkrum, for this very important initiative. Because I know that the Mediators Association is in a lot of pain for us to adopt this law today. And I was happy to join you and become a co-author. And I wanted to do 297 amendments. It's an amendment, once again, Alona Skrum initiated it, I think it's very appropriate. It identifies the rights of the mediator quite clearly, which was not in line with the first reading. I'll have a question. Why is it included in part? Because the comparative table indicates that not all the positions of this amendment have been taken into account. So I would just insist on putting her to the vote and taking it fully into account. And if possible, a comment from the committee. What was not included in this amendment and did not enter the final edition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u47	Dear Mrs. Ptashnik, 297 is the amendment of Shkrum, Rybčina and Irina's. If we put her on the stand right now, she'll lose her sense of acceptance by the committee. So, colleagues, I understand that a lot of people want to make a statement under this law, so let's not delay the consideration of the bill. Last, please, amendment 233. Mrs. Alona Shkrum. And this concludes the discussion of amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u48	Thank you, colleagues. Schrome Allona, "The Fatherland" faction. In fact, this will be the last amendment that I will insist on not confirming this amendment, this is the amendment of our esteemed colleagues and the report by Mr. Alexeyev and Amazanova, who have been very seriously involved in the drafting of this bill. But why would I ask her not to confirm? Unfortunately, since the committee’s consideration was of considerable importance, we cannot afford to have three months to make the law effective. And I'm going to ask this amendment actually, unfortunately, to fail in order for the law to take effect, as it did in the first reading, on the next day of publication. And let me also use the 20 seconds that I have left to thank the Mediators' Association, all the mediators who have joined in working on this law, the Ukrainian Academy of Mediation. And also to all the co-authors: both Mr. Alexeiev, and Mr. Alexeiev's well-respected reporter, and Ms. Oleni Stotnik, who herself is the mediator, and Mr. Yemen, and Mr. Ryabchin, and Mrs. Podowlak, and Mrs. Ptashnik, and Mr. Borislav Berezi, and all the others who have worked on this bill for several years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u49	30 seconds. Mrs. Alona's finished. In turn, as chairman of the session that considered the amendments, I would like to thank both the drafters of the bill and all the Ukrainian national deputies who have joined in preparing it for the second reading, for the amendments, and also for the committee that has worked very closely on this bill. Colleagues, the Presidium is very much asking everyone to return to the session room. There'll be a vote in five minutes. And now we're giving the sum total word to the respectable. I'm sorry. Yes, at the request of Mrs. Skrum to confirm 333 amendments I'm putting in now. I'd like to point out that the committee supported her. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:40:00]] For-51 This amendment is rejected, and it is not counted by the hall. I mean, the committee counted it, but the hall canceled. Please, Mr. Igor Aleksei's summary word is five minutes. Colleagues, please return to the session room so that you and I can demonstrate a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you all for your hard work on this bill. We've really been working on this initiative for a long time, but we've come up with the right, balanced decision. Yesterday, separate proposals were made from individual colleagues, comments to the text of the bill, and there were also separate comments made by the Chief Legal Authority to the bill. And I would like to read into this bill some of the individual proposals that a colleague has made, they agree that there will be no innuendo on this issue. Therefore, with these observations taken into account, as well as the comments made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, I propose such amendments to the bill. In article 6, the title is worded as "self-definition of the sides of the media". In part two, delete "with reference to the recommendations of the mediator and other participants in the mediation." In part three and fourth, the word "legislature" is replaced by the words "Civil Code of Ukraine." In the second part of article 9, the words "none of the mediated parties, the mediator, as well as the persons involved in the organization of the mediation process, do not have" shall be replaced by the words "none of the participants in the mediation does not have." In article 10, in the first part of the second word and the digits "90 academic hours" replace the words and digits "90 hours" and the words and digits "45 academic hours" with the words and digits "45 hours". In paragraph 3 of part three, replace the word "investigative" with the word "law enforcement officer." In the same paragraph, after the words “the commission of corruption” add the words “or the crime related to corruption for three years from the date of the commission”. Part three is added to paragraph 5 of this sentence: "which is a private performer." In the first part of article 9, in the first part of article 13, in paragraph 6 of part one of article 18, in part two of article 20, in part three of article 21, the word “legislature” should be replaced by the word “law”. In the second part of article 13, the word "legislature" is replaced by the word "law." In Section IV, Final and Transitional Positions, subsections 2, 3, 4, 5, paragraph 2 are deleted. In paragraph 3, paragraph 4 is deleted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u51	So, colleagues, we're done discussing the rights. And we can move on to making a decision. I ask all the heads of factions to invite the national deputies to the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite the deputies who are in the towers to the Hall. And, colleagues, while the people's deputies are in the hall, I want to give you one message. I received four statements from factions. Three of them are ready to be replaced by a performance, one of which provides for a real break. And that's my offer. Colleagues, pay attention! So that we can vote on this law. Five minutes went by for the day's session, and after the transplant, there was an important law. Then we considered the question of the report on Katy Hanszük, and then a real break. Is that the formula for everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u52	Of course. Three factions that don't require a real break. No, that's how it's going to be: first the vote, the inclusion, while the mobilization is in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u53	We're gonna lose mobilization in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u54	Let's see, colleagues. So it's from the factions, and then it's KatyaGandzük. I would also like to inform you that I have invited the Attorney General of Ukraine, Yuri Lucenka, to the report of the Commission on Cata Hansuk. I'm sure we'll be looking at this in full procedure, not in short. And so, colleagues, now I've explained the logic. Please don't split up. We're about to go to the vote. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. Colleagues ready to vote? Are you back in the hall, colleagues? So I'm going to put to the vote the proposal of the committee with those rights that Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich made under the transcript. Please take up jobs. Ready? Let's move on to making a decision, colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Mediation Act (No. 3665) as proposed by the committee on second reading and in general with the proposals that Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich made under the transcript. Please vote, please support. Vote! We support you, colleagues. Careful! We're taking part in the vote. Vote, support! Voting, supporting. [[10:46:39]] For 201 We didn't make it. Colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the hall. We'll be right back. So, colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the hall. Now I'm going to read the factions, please turn it on for me. Block of Peter Poshenko – 75, National Front – 50, Opposition Block – 4, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 2, Fatherland – 16, Will of the People – 6, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional – 27, colleagues. I ask everyone to return to the hall. I am sure that we have the potential to vote on this law, which has waited a year for its consideration. I'm asking you not to take lightly. Go back to the hall, colleagues. Everyone please come into the hall. Colleagues, take up jobs. I'll be right back. Look who's out there, colleagues, and invite us to the hall. So, are we ready, colleagues? Please come in. So I propose to go back to voting for the draft Mediation Act (3665). Please vote and please support. Colleagues, we carefully vote, we support, we vote, we support, we support. [[10:48:34]] For the 220. It's a dynamic that's amazing. It's an amazing dynamic. Please take up jobs. Six national deputies are to join in the adoption of the law, six national deputies. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Who's in the towers, who can hear me, please come into the hall. Colleagues, don't be indifferent, be in the workplace. I'm asking you, colleagues, to prepare everyone. I'll read the factions again. The factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 79, People's Front – 59, Opposition Block – 5, Self-help – 16, Radical Party – 2, Father's Party – 17, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth – 8 and non-fractional – 27. Mr. Valérie, we're waiting for you to join the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You're ready, aren't you? So, colleagues. Mr. Valerius, please. You're ready, aren't you? More than six deputies came up with it. That's right, more. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 3665, and I ask everyone to vote carefully, colleagues. Careful! Every voice! Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful, responsible. Vote. We're backing it up. [[10:50:41]] For 213 What happened, colleagues? It's someone adding- taking away the votes easily. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I'll put the third time to the vote. I'm asking you to get all mobile. So, colleagues, prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Mediation Act (3665). Vote please, colleagues. Careful, every voice! Please be supportive. Comrades, we have a responsible vote! Voting, supporting. To return. Please vote. Vote. Voting, supporting. [[10:52:09]] For 211 What's the matter, colleagues? Come into the hall, please. Let's see the factions. Colleagues, don't leave the hall, go back to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues. No, there are no more speeches. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to take up jobs. So, colleagues, let's call from the towers. Guys, I'll put it back on. If there are no votes, we'll take the second one again. But I don't understand, everyone was supporting the bill, everyone was supporting it. Please take up jobs. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I'm voting on the draft Mediation Act (3665), a return to the law. And, colleagues, I ask everyone to support and vote now. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. And please return to the hall. You're ready, aren't you? Vote ready, right? So for your return, please vote and please support. Ira, we vote, we support the return, because every vote we count, every vote. Why is that? Vote, support, colleagues. Please support, we vote. [[10:54:53]] For-195 Next thing you know, a committee to work on. Perhaps it will be supported. Colleagues, next sentence, to the committee for re-reading. So we don't lose the bill. We're going to have I'll put the vote to the next sentence: return to the committee for further work and resubmit the second reading. Please vote. Please be supportive. To the others again. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. Every voice. Careful! Vote. We're backing it up. [[10:55:46]] For 221 I'll do it again. I'll put it again, colleagues. So I'm going to put back the second reading proposal. Colleagues, stand by, please. Come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to get ready. Comrades, I'm addressing you! Mr. Sergey, I ask everyone to return to the workplace. I'm asking you to come back, we'll count every vote. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the second reading again. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. Vote. Back up, fellows! [[10:56:50]] For 222 [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, I'd like everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking you to stop the mess and be in the workplace. So, colleagues, I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the draft Mediation Act for re-reading. I ask everyone to vote and support. Please vote, every vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We're backing it up. Please vote and vote. Vote. [[10:57:45]] For 223 Three votes. So I'm going to put the third, final one, once again: go back to voting for the second read. I'm begging you, colleagues, I won't bet anymore. I ask everyone to take up their jobs. I'm asking you to return to the hall. Anton, Victor, I ask you to return to the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for the second reading again. Please vote and please support. Everyone please take part in the vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Please vote. [[10:58:52]] For 219 I don't have any more suggestions, colleague. We can do more. No, we don't have any options anymore. You've failed, colleagues, the law. And I have to announce that the draft Mediation Act (3665) I declare that it is rejected, colleagues. Declined. So I want to remind you that we have four applications for a break: one for a real break, three of them ready to switch to a performance. The first statement came from the faction of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front. And I invite you to address the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, information was published in the media on Monday about the abuse of Ucroborprom State and its officials. This is a very serious accusation. And we need to do everything we can to examine this information promptly and impartially. Society's waiting for answers to important questions about whether or not there's been a break-in at the Croat Prome. So the People's Front faction came out with an initiative, and thanks to the faction of WFP that supported it, and by the way, I invite all other heads of factions and MPs to join in today's decision on the urgent investigation of the facts published in the media regarding the abuse of the Ucrobanprom State Concert and its involvement in this official. I want to remind you that six months ago we created a Temporary Investigation Commission that investigates the facts of the theft in the Ukrainian Armed Forces and in the defence sector from 2004 to 2017. As the facts that were published on Monday, which are relevant to the events of 2017-2018, we are expanding our decision to authorize this already created TSC until 2018-2019. I believe that the TSK should hold a public meeting of the commission of inquiry inviting the Attorney General of Ukraine, the SAP, the NAB, the Ministry of Defence, the Ucrobanprom State Concert, the officials who were published in this investigation, and should hold a public, open session so that the whole country can see. Secondly, I believe that committees such as the Committee on Law Enforcement, the Committee on Combating Corruption and the Committee on National Security and Defence should be involved in the work of the TSC. The ruling was registered today No. 10104. And, Mr. Chairman, I ask you today to give an immediate commission to review the committee's profile and vote today. I am convinced that all who want a fair, impartial investigation of the facts must join the work of this commission of inquiry. And I'm convinced that she should report to the Supreme Council as soon as possible for her work. Above all, society requires answers as to whether these facts will be confirmed. If these facts are confirmed, officials who are concerned with the abuse of the Ucrobanprom must bear the most severe criminal responsibility. If these facts are not confirmed, then society should hear the truth. Dear colleagues, today we must vote and launch an active investigation into the facts published in the media regarding the abuses of the Croatprom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u56	Thank you. Next break from the Radical Party and the Rebirth Group. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of Gallasus Victor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u57	Dear Ukrainians, I am holding in my hands the Supreme Council's draft, registered in Parliament by the leader of our party, Oleg Ljashk, on the return to the budget of the illegal, unjustly paid Kobolev prizes and the leadership of Naftogazu, amounting to a billion 400 million dollars. The government, as a result of a secret agreement with the International Monetary Fund, has artificially increased gas prices and municipal tariffs for the population. They collect billions and tens of billions of dollars from our pockets with you in order to pay for such a cosmic bonus. And do you think maybe the government has listened to Oleg Laska and Ukrainian society? They just reported they're continuing Coboleva's contract at Naftogaza. It's a disgrace. It's robbery and robbery. Oleg Lazko and the Radical Party insist on an immediate parliamentary review of the rulings by Oleg Lazko to annul the government’s decision to increase the price of gas and municipal tariffs for the population; decisions to return to the budget unjustly and illegally paid Koboljevo and its supporters to a premium of 1 billion 400 million dollars. Just think, they pay a billion dollars a month. It's because the teacher, the doctor, God forbid he gets 8 or 9,000. It's a disgrace, it's cynicism, it's unacceptable. Prices for gas and utilities have been made practically European, and Ukrainian income levels are the lowest in Europe, up to a dozen times lower than in developed countries. Ukraine extracts its gas, which costs several times as much as imported. So it is totally unfair to compare the price of Ukrainian gas to the price of imported gas. Because when wages are like those in Europe, adjustments can be made. It's totally unacceptable. What's more, tens of billions of dollars of revenue that Naftegas is what, the cost of competition, production, innovation? No, it's not. It's a robbery of every Ukrainian. These are the costs that go towards paying off the space bonuses, these are the costs that go towards breaking up in defense. Look, thousands of people are coming out. Look, millions of people can't pay utility bills. When the payment is only 4 thousand 200 dollars per 50 meters, the disabled person and the group, the widow of a Chernobyl with a pension of 3,000 dollars, how can that be paid? The Radical Party team does not vote in favour of any bill before considering Oleg Láška's decision to cancel the price hike on gas and return to Koboli dragons' illegally paid budget bonuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u58	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u59	Not gas criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u60	So what I want to say is that two factions -- Self-help and Fatherhood -- have decided not to take a real break, but to go on the show right away. And I invite you to address Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please, three minutes. And, colleagues, after this performance, immediately two minutes -- getting into the order of the day session, there's transplantation and ratification. So be at work for months, stay at it, colleagues. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! For the third time, the country has essentially been informed by the fact that the Ukrainian President-in-Chief's factory has been laundering the funds through the Lenin Cows, supplying completely unfit parts from the occupied country with two or four times more costs for the Ukrainian defence industry, and installing inadequate spare parts from the occupying country, washing 250 million dollars at least from the state budget of Ukraine. In other words, the Commander-in-Chief of State organized a criminal group that was raising money from the budget, working with the occupying country smuggled, undermining the country's security. These are extraordinary things. Society's raving right now. There are thousands of people on the street under the Supreme Council, demanding the impeachment of a president who engaged in robbery during the war. But Parliament has not been able to decide for the third time on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry as a first step towards the initiation of the impeachment procedure. Parliament is an accomplice today in its part with the President, his corrupt environment. And I can say that I have in my hands a document that is just the decision to create a temporary commission of inquiry signed by the Self-Help faction in full and supported by the Radical Party, the Rebirth Party, the independent deputies, the Motherland Party. I also want to thank the parts of the Eurooptimists who signed and insist on creating such a temporary commission of inquiry. I want to say that unfortunately, not only did the letters for the signature meeting for the initiation of the impeachment procedure of the Commander-in-Chief, who stole from his army, but they didn't register at the Supreme Council Secretariat a draft decree on the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry. This means that they cover the crime, that they try to silence it and simply give indulgence. This is also the judgment of today’s Supreme Council leadership, who did not take the lead in honestly, impartially, considering the process immediately, but are given criminal commands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u62	30 seconds. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u63	Criminal teams of the Supreme Council Secretariat are given not to register the draft decree, cancel the signed letters regarding the collection of signatures for impeachment. This suggests that organized crime groups are much broader than we can imagine, absorbed by almost all branches of government, including some of the power structures. But we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u64	Thank you. And, colleagues, I want to let you know, I've been taking a special look at this situation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus operates completely within and within the framework of the law. I want to. consult any lawyer, I can say responsibly, and I want to say from this rostrum that now sounded lies and lies. And I'll say one more thing: there's constant pressure on members of the Apparatus to force public officials to act illegally. I'm asking you to stop the pressure on the apparatus workers. They will act exclusively within and within the spirit of the law. And stop taking on the civil servants in your election campaigns. That won't happen. The Supreme Council apparatus will operate within the existing law, and no pressure will help you. So, colleagues, I remind you, it's now three minutes -- getting into the agenda of the day session, and we're moving on to the report of the Hansuk Commission. I ask you all to stand by and prepare yourself, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to come to the workplace so we can see what kind of issues we have the potential for after 12:30. I want to remind you that all the questions were in advance marked in the section "Inclusion in the Order of the Day Session." I'm going to put them briefly, it's going to take two or three minutes, and we're going to go straight to the Hansuk report. So first. Proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar. It's an extremely important ratification, colleagues. I ask everyone to support and vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:12:16]] For 205 205, colleagues. I think we can take it. Please enter the hall, colleagues. Please come into the hall, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. These are international agreements and the international authority of Ukraine. I ask everyone to return to the hall, colleagues. I also ask from the guest lounge to return to the voting room. So I'm voting on a proposal -- a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the State of Qatar (0215) -- to include in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. I ask you to vote and please support me, colleagues. And I ask everyone to vote with great responsibility. Vote! We're backing up, fellows! Vote. [[11:13:18]] For 241 It's a victory. Decision taken. The next is 0216, the Law on the Ratification of the Multilateral Convention on the Implementation of Measures in respect of Tax Contracts, with a view to countering the laundering of the tax base and the withdrawal of income from taxation (0216). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote! We're backing up, fellows! We're backing it up. [[11:13:59]] For 206 Next. Draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction (9417). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote! [[11:14:34]] For 199 Next up, colleagues. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Anatomic Material Transplantation to Man. I'm asking everyone, colleagues, to get their hands on it, to back up, colleagues, please take your jobs, it's about fate and people's lives, don't be indifferent at this point, take your jobs. So, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision 9461, and also two alternatives, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[11:15:17]] For 205 Colleagues, there's all three laws, and there's an alternative. Everyone asked for your support, please. I am re-voting the day-to-day session to adopt a decision on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Application of Anatomy Material Transplantation. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Please vote. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, [[11:15:55]] For 216 Guys, come into the hall, I'll put it back up. The third time I'm going to put in a lockup, go back to work, colleagues. Come back, Mr. Anatoly. We count each voice, Mr. Ostap and Anatoly. Mr. Ostap, Mr. Anatoly, come back, please, we count the votes, each vote, please. So, are your colleagues ready? Ready, yeah, everybody in place? So I'm betting on the vote. Mr. Roman, Mr. Roman, please, 30 seconds, come back. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Law 9461 and two alternatives to transplantation. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, we vote, we vote, we vote, this is the lives of people, it's the lives of people. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. [[11:17:15]] For 218. I'll do it again. Let's move on to the next one. So the next one is 9532: draft law on common transit. Please vote and support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision-making session. Vote. [[11:17:46]] For 209 Colleagues, I'm going to make a closing statement. 9039. "The Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security" (9039). Please include the order of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote. Vote. [[11:18:21]] For 207 Colleagues, pay attention! There are two more votes. We had a transplant very close, let's try it again. If it doesn't, then after. Then it's after the TSC. So once again, I'm putting in the agenda of the day session for decision 9461 (transplant). I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Everyone, please take your seats, vote and support. Vote, colleagues, support. Vote! [[11:19:05]] For 215 Let's see the factions. Let's see the factions. BPP 97, People's Front 64, Opposition Block 0, Self-Help 16, Radical Party 2, Parenthood 9, Will of the People 0, Rebirth Party 4. And we had a very close 9532: draft law on common transit. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:19:47]] For 211 I'll do it again. So, colleagues, we have completed the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. And now I'm announcing the move to review the draft Ordinance on the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on the attacks on Catherine Gandzük. And I would like to point out that I have invited Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to the report of the Attorney General of Ukraine. And so the work will look like this: the report – Bereza Borislav Yuhimovich, head of the commission, then the co-report – Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, then from factions, then from deputies. You're in, right? Let's get to it. And I invite the head of the interim commission of inquiry, Borislav Berezu, to the rostrum. In 10 minutes, Mr. Borislav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u65	The report of our Temporary Investigation Commission contains 19 pages, and in ten minutes it is impossible to pass it on. That's why it's so tight, very informative. I would like to remind you of the preliminary report of the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information regarding the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists. Temporary investigator of the commission created on November 6, 2018, for a period of three months. The commission included 19 national deputies. I would like to point out that the deputies who joined the Interim Investigation Commission have worked hard to maximize the depoliticization of the work of the commission. We tried to do this in order to give the most objective assessment of the work of law enforcement agencies investigating criminal cases involving attacks on activists and to prevent the commission from being used for its political purposes. In three months, the Commission’s interim investigator held 10 meetings, including in Odessa, Herson. The TSC sent 92 calls to the police and prosecutorial authorities to obtain information on the state of pretrial investigation in criminal investigations of attacks against public activists for the purpose of verifying the information and the course of the investigation. During the processing of the information requested by the interim commission of inquiry, there are established facts of information breach, as well as some of the information requested contains the secret of the investigation. This slows down the work of the interim commission of inquiry. Based on the information available to the interim commission of inquiry, we came to the following conclusions. There is a need to continue monitoring the pretrial investigation of the criminal conduct of Gandzück and Oleshko. In the case of Ustimenko and Mikhailika, who has not yet been appointed, these cases also need to be kept under control. In the case of the attack on Sergey Sternenka, the buyers and organizers of the attacks have not been established. Only one person has been reported by the perpetrators of the attack. The Commission has established that there has been a repeated closure of the conduct of the injured Lysicken by the investigating authorities in spite of the victim’s will. There is evidence of a delay in the transfer being conducted in the Bulach case for further trial by the court. The prosecution of the Bull case involved violations of procedural legislation and the loss of important evidence because of negligence on the part of investigators, as well as the absence of evidence of criminal liability. In view of the above, it is considered necessary to continue to examine the investigation of the above - mentioned criminal conduct. To hold a temporary commission of inquiry and to listen to representatives of police and prosecutors, victims, witnesses and representatives of the public organizations of the city of Harkov. Makarov’s case is a priority in Kiev. The interim commission of inquiry shall be audited by the law enforcement authorities. The meeting on the Makarov issue with the call and hearing of the parties is scheduled to take place as soon as possible, immediately after the extension of the commission’s mandate. Dear colleagues, I understand that I am not Duda, that I am not Donald Tusk, that I am not the one who spoke earlier when the session hall was silent. But can you listen when a person speaks to whom what has really been happening is important? I understand it wasn't attacks on you and your families! These are attacks on other Ukrainians! So maybe we'll listen to each other, because it's important! I understand I'm not the Henprocuror who comes here and you listen to him! But this is me for the stories that have taken place in Ukraine in our time. And when we said in Maidan that no man would ever be persecuted again, you see, there is! In Samarski’s case, the interim commission of inquiry has established that no suspect has been reported at this time in the criminal conduct of a suspect. So we have to go to the North Korean and listen to what's going on there. The Commission agreed that 11 criminal investigations were ineffective and ineffective. This is evidenced by the length of the pretrial investigation, the number of prosecutions carried out during that time, and the absence of indictments. A systematic and premature closure of the Kievovo-Svetosinian GNP in the Kyiv area of criminal conduct has been found. Taking into account the limited three-month period of activity of the interim commission of inquiry, the extension of the deadlines for responding to referrals and the large number of cases being investigated throughout Ukraine, it was not possible to process the entire array of information and reach the final conclusions. In view of the foregoing, it is considered necessary to continue to verify the conduct of investigations into the above-mentioned criminal investigations, to call investigators and processors to provide explanations, to establish whether or not there have been any violations of the terms of the pre-trial investigation, the grounds for such violations, the reasons for the absence of the results of the pre-trial investigation, and to establish the results of the initiated service investigations. There is a need to continue the work of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate reports of attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other public activists and to find out how effective the trial is. Thank you. I bet four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u67	Is the Attorney General missing? I'm sorry, I thought there was gonna be a Henprocuror.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u68	Please sign up for the question. Three minutes, please. Please, Mr. Lechchenko, National Deputy. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u69	I give the word to Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u70	Please have a question from Mustafa Nyem.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u71	Borislav, well, first of all, thank you for working on the committee. We worked with you. I'd like you to clarify some of the questions that concern the investigation of Catherine Gandzück. Please tell us, during our meetings with representatives of civil society in the city of Herson, as well as with representatives of law enforcement agencies, were there any statements that Mr. Manger, who is the head of the fraud, was involved in the killing of Katherina Gandzük, who is also the head of the district and the deputy head of the district council, Mr. Ritchuk? If so, would you please tell me if we sent such letters? Have we asked the President, the Attorney General, Mr. Habakkuk to meet and share with us all the information we have received, including separatism, including the pro-Russian forces that work there, and the law enforcement agencies that have not studied the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u72	Thank you for asking, Mr. Nayem. As a member of the commission, you know that, after we've had a field meeting in Herson, we've asked the President, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General to welcome us in order to report on everything that's going on in the Hersonian area. Sadly, this did not happen. And yes, I can say that everything that's possible is done by the commission to avoid the problems that are now there. On another point, I want to say that activists called a very large number of names, but we don't have to replace either the judicial authorities or the investigating authorities in order not to draw conclusions that we don't have. We were the commission of inquiry that analyzed the work of law enforcement agencies and which. The one I'm reporting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u73	Next question. Please, National Deputy Victoria. Ah, she gives the word to Mrs. Oleni Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u74	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. Thank you, Borislav, for your work together. It really wasn't easy, but I think that at all expectations, of course, the public that we're going to call names is not the task of the TSK. We have far more complex problems. I would like to ask you to comment on the following situation and what we will do about it. First. We have heard on several occasions that the Interim Investigation Commission seems to be preventing the Attorney General from working. Please comment on this in your speech, after the interim commission of inquiry began to work, really began to move. And the second question. We see that even after the work of the Temporary Investigation Commission, especially in Odessa, there are signs of car arson, there are facts of illegal detention of activists. In this regard, please also comment on the relevance of the continuation of the Interim Investigation Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u75	No matter what. Thank you, Mrs. Helena, for that and a good point. In fact, society expected us to name our names. But the interim commission of inquiry can't be, can't investigate, doesn't have that kind of authority. And despite the fact that we've been accused in advance of arguing that we're going to interfere with the investigation, almost all the sessions that were behind closed doors, they're going to be unreported to society. It's all in the report, and we didn't give any information that could harm the investigation. That's why I don't think the investigating committee was in the way. Moreover, it must be admitted that only after the interim commission of inquiry had intervened in the very large number of cases indicated in the full report were they. We're moving from scratch. And it was only after that that they were found, processions were carried out, those who committed these crimes were found, and some actions were taken in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u76	Thank you. And one last question. Please, National Deputy Goncharenko Alexei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u77	Dear Mr. Borislav, please tell me. We know everyone that the Attorney General has charged the organization of the murder of Catherine Gandzük to the head of the Herson District Council of Mr. Manger, a member of the Party of Fatherhood. Did you invite him to your meeting, or did you ask him the appropriate questions, and what information did he provide to the interim commission of inquiry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u78	Suspected of Mr. Manger's murder after his term of office as a temporary investigator. This is the first time. He had been summoned before, and he reported to our committee. It was in Herson. Everything I've told you. There's only one thing I can say that I can't draw any conclusions from my personals just because I said so. No MP, no journalist can replace either the investigators or the judicial authorities. It is they who should say who is to blame and punish for the crime that he has committed or has not committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u79	Thank you, Mr. Borislav. Thank you. I said that I had invited Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka to the meeting of the Attorney General of Ukraine, who is in the hall. I invite you to the report. In five minutes, right, Yuri Vitaliovich? And likewise, three minutes to ask. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich. Then there's the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! On July 31, 2018, a crime was committed in Herson City during an acid attack that led to the death of a public activist named Catherine Gandzük. The initial qualification of the National Police in this matter was untrue. And so a few days later, the first deputy district attorney in the Herson area identified this qualification, referring to the decision of the Plenary of the Supreme Court and the legislation in force, as the commission of the crimes envisaged in part two of article 15, paragraphs 4, 12 of the second article 115, or deliberate murder. The investigation was divided into two parts. In view of the fact that the National Police were sufficiently effective in following the perpetrators, the investigation of the perpetrators of the crime was entrusted to the central apparatus of the National Police of Ukraine under the procedural direction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The investigation of the likely buyers of the crime was entrusted to the Ukrainian Chief Investigative Office of the Security Service under the procedural direction of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. The National Police in the Hersonian Region detained, from 17 to 21 August last year, and then, in agreement with the prosecutors, reported the suspicion of committing the crimes provided for in article 115, i.e. the deliberate killing of citizens: Thorbin, Gorbunov, Vasyanovich, Vishnevsky and Grabchuku. In view of the fact that most of them cooperate with the investigation, there are revealing indications of the preparation, organization, and commission of the crime, only Torbin and Grabchuk have been selected as a precautionary measure of keeping in custody, where it is to this day. In parallel with the work of the investigators of Ukraine’s General Security Service, on November 10, last year, a citizen of Pavlovski, who is an assistant to the national deputy, was declared suspicious under the same article, and the investigation considers him a mediator between the client and the organizers of the crime. At the same time, December 04, 2018, a citizen named Levin, who had previously left the territory of Ukraine, was reported to have been suspected of organizing the crime and was declared wanted. On February 11, this year, the Ukrainian Security Service also announced the suspicion of the head of the Herson District Council of Manger, whose investigation is considered a contracting party to this crime. On February 15, 2019, he was selected by the Shevchenkow District Court of Kiev to take a precautionary action of 2 million $497,000. After the strike, Manger returned to the city of Herson. 19.02 An appeal has been lodged by the Attorney General's Office for the approval of the investigating judge. We insist that the current legislation of Ukraine does not provide for a person suspected of organizing a murder, any precautionary measure other than keeping him under guard. We consider the assessment of human life to be 4.5 million cynical and unacceptable to the rule of law. Right now, we need to look into the appeal, and we are looking forward to a legitimate decision to keep the person who is on the stand, with the testimony of the accomplices, suspected of ordering the murder of a public activist named Hanszük. I have to add a few more words to that. The problems of investigating this and thousands of other murder cases have problems with the following. First. According to last year's Supreme Council decision, even after the killings to obtain an expert, it is necessary to obtain a court decision. To this end, investigators are in line for some weeks, and this is certainly not conducive to the investigation. The second problem is that even a suspect in a murder warrant, even with the obvious evidence of the murder found in his home, the law enforcement authorities have no right to detain him but only to bring him to trial if he was detained within hours of the murder. Of course, it's absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u81	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u82	And the third problem. It's an international search problem. For your consideration, honourable national MPs, a bill was introduced yesterday that should have been considered, which deals with the issue of Interpol in absentia. Interpol doesn't put out a red card search until there's a concept of "straight arrest" in Ukraine. Our idea of bringing a precautionary action to court is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u83	Finish up, please, let's be able to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u84	Interpol is not considered, and therefore criminals, even in the most serious crimes, are not put on international search. I would ask those three problems to be taken into account and settled in the legislative order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, three questions, three minutes. Please hold the recording. Barezuk Oleg Romanovich passes the Sotnik. Please, Mrs. Olena. Oleni Sotnik, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u86	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a few questions. To save time, I'll go right to them. First question. Please tell me that in almost all your public statements, you have commented that the Temporary Investigation Commission is preventing you from working. Some of Pavlovsky’s men were called in search only after the pressure of the interim commission of inquiry. For some reason, Mikhailika, we have been instructed by you, the Attorney General's Office, to remove the bullet only after the pressure of the Interim Investigation Commission. Some more than 15 criminal proceedings, where no witness was even questioned, began to be questioned only after the work of the Interim Investigation Commission. So what was your problem with the Temporary Investigation Commission? That's the first question. And the second question. You have also repeatedly talked about Catherine Gandzük’s clientele in your public appearances. Why is there only one suspect sitting on the defendant’s bench, and is it by chance that he is a representative of the opposition force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u87	Thank you. First. I can officially state that the TSC has never met with either me or the Minister of Internal Affairs as the heads of the judicial and procedural authorities. Also, no information was received from the TSC in the official order, either I or the BSB or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So I can't personally talk about the benefits of the TSK. The other one. The investigation is not conducted on a party basis. Any person until proven guilty is not guilty. But even if she is condemned, she has no party. This is my deep conviction. In addition, I want to remind you that a national deputy from the ruling party has been under arrest for many, many months now, and this party, by the way, said that the law is one for all, unlike those who are today trying to translate criminal conduct into political propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u88	Thank you. Vadatursky gives the question to Nemirowski. Nemirowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u89	Dear Yuri Vitaliyovich, thank you for your colossal work. But I want to draw the voter's attention to the fact that at the moment, and then both of them, both Manger and Catherine Gandzück, were active members of the Motherland Party. And she only got out of there after they took Manger. And then she began to claim that Manger was a follower of the Russian world and an open supporter of Moscow. Isn't this a relationship with Fatherland and Catherine Gandzück and Manger, together, to this party?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not give any answers where the party of those suspected of committing this crime is being used. I find that rude. And once again, I want to emphasize, there are people who probably killed a person. And these people have to go through all the legal procedure using presumption of innocence, and their guilt will be established in court without mentioning partyism. Please stop these things. Murder in a group of people: customer, organizer. Two organizers, four performers, the investigation has been set up. Allow the investigation and the court to reach a legal conclusion. Stop hanging political labels on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u91	Thank you. And the final question is, Lubinec is passing it on to Shinkovic. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u92	Mr. Attorney General, you have charged an active member of the Fatherland and an active agitator for Timoshenko Manger. The Fatherland Party and its leaders were asked by activists to gather voices in the Herson District Council to take Manger out of office, and activists say they are being pressured by politicians. The question is specific in the course of the investigation. Does it prevent Manger from being in office? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, in 2010, I stood as the minister of the interior at this rostrum and listened to the hysteria of the Party of Regions, which wanted to pin a so-called pedophile scandal on Prime Minister Timoshenko. And no matter what happened here, about this place, Mrs. Herman promised me I'd sit down, and I said, "No, that's not true!" Likewise today, I will not in my own words help your political battalions. Each crime must be exposed regardless of who is involved in the matter. Stop using murder in your political forces, both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u94	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. And we're moving on to the factions. Anyone who intends to take part in the discussion, please hold the record. So, from the Self-Help faction of Olena Sotnik. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope this is just the beginning and this room will continue to work as a temporary commission of inquiry, because we have taken on a very serious load. And I am grateful to all the members of the commission who supported the request of activists. Today, more than 50 criminal conducts are under the control of a temporary commission of inquiry, many of which we have found serious violations by law enforcement agencies. This is just an interim report. I know that activists are here, they were expecting, really, to hear our names from us, but it's not our function. Our main task was to activate the law enforcement agencies to do their job. In this room, I know a lot, including my colleagues who worked with us on a temporary commission of inquiry, talking about what is a certain politicization of the process. Friends, colleagues, I thank you for the work we did together, and that we really helped each other. But it's not about politics. There would be no temporary commission of inquiry if the authorities performed their functions. But, unfortunately, it's not. What's more, I have to say that activists today continue to be at risk. Odessa: Two days ago the illegal detention of activists takes place. Without any explanation, they took their things, took them to the police station, and didn’t even explain to people why they were detained. Before burning down activists' cars, burning houses, watching them, they're threatened. We continue to have pressure on activists and on the public. So I'm asking you very much, they have the Temporary Investigation Commission -- isn't it the only hope that they'll somehow be protected? And last of all, the question that was crucial and which prompted the creation of this temporary commission of inquiry is the murder and attempted murder of Catherine Gandzük. Still, we ask and appeal to the Attorney General's Office. You know that activists go out on stock, they demand that all customers be on the bench of defendants, really regardless of which political forces they belong to. Because this will be the only proof that all are equal before the law. Therefore, we ask and demand that the demands of activists be met and that all be punished in this matter. And the last. We have found many shortcomings in our current legislation, including this Parliament, unfortunately too, has brought these shortcomings into the legislation. In the near future, we'll be preparing the appropriate bill, and I think from the interim commission of inquiry it will be introduced into the hall. I'm asking you, this is a matter of human security, every day crimes are committed. Followers can't work, almost every case is referred to by investigators and say, "We have a delay in the investigation just because you've adopted such legislation." Friends, colleagues, let's unite and at least make it possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u96	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u97	At least make it possible to investigate these crimes. And then we can definitely separate those law enforcement officers who work and try to find the guilty from those who sabotage the investigation. And the last. It is wrong for activists to expose corruption by exposing their lives to threats and risks. This should be done by law enforcement authorities, and this will be the key conclusion of the interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u98	Please, the next performance is the head of the Peter Prashenko faction, Arthur Gerasimov. You're welcome to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u99	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians! First of all, on behalf of the faction of the Party of Peter Poshenko, I would like to thank the public activists, the entire concerned public, who have been called upon to investigate immediately the murder of public activist Catherine Gandzük. At the same time, I thank the law enforcement authorities, who have found and announced in very short periods a suspect of this horrendous crime. The most terrible thing about this crime is that the customer is the head of the Herson District Council, representing the "Fatherland" party, Vladislav Manger. As a person with a keen sense of justice who has been governed throughout his activities by the state's interests, the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms, Catherine Hanszük has come out of the ranks of the Fatherland because Vladislav Manger has been invited and accepted into this party. Catherine Hanszük herself explained her solution by saying that Fatherland accepts a man who, she said, is a representative of the pro-Russian structures in Hersonics and an open enemy of Ukraine whose patrons from Moscow are sowing war on us. The law enforcement agencies have now established that this person is the contracting party to the murder. And most interestingly, Julia Timoshenko stood up for him. We have to say that Julius Timoshenko's "Fatherland" has turned into a structure where criminals and murderers are sheltered. Just a few examples. On June 16, 2010, VictorLozinski, a national MP from Fatherland, who owned hundreds of thousands of acres of stolen land, particularly brutally killed an ordinary peasant from a common Ukrainian village. Alexander Šepelev is another national MP from Fatherland found guilty of murder and murder. Now he's hiding -- guess what, three times, in Russia. They're not ordinary members of the party, they're individuals who used special privileged status in the Fatherland party, they were national MPs. Manger leads the district council. And what Julia Tymoshenko has done to protect them, it only confirms that criminals in the leadership positions of the Fatherland party are the norm. With what I recall, Lozinski was released from prison because of your law, Julius Volodymyrically, which is attributed to Hope Savchenko. But I will recall that at the time, Nadia Savchenko was in prison, and the law was written by you in your office in Kiev. This raises a legitimate question. Why do you, Julia Volodymyrna, personally cover murderers? Why are there murderers, extortioners, raiders, and criminals in your leading party? I am addressing you as the leader of the Fatherland Party, to all its members: remember, membership in this party will not save anyone from responsibility, whether it relates to the bribery of votes on behalf of Julia Timoshenko, or the organization and execution of the murder. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u100	30 seconds. But I'm asking you to discuss a specific TSC order right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u101	And the next. We suggest extending the commission's term of office for two weeks and immediately hearing the report after all the circumstances that have been rediscovered since the last meeting of the commission will be discussed in a timely manner during the TSC meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u102	Thank you. Colleagues, please speak only on the subject under discussion is the TSC report. Please, Sergey Sobolev, I invite you to speak. The Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u103	Sobolje, Fatherland. When the representative of Peter Prashenko in this Parliament, who brought war into Ukraine with Bezler, tells stories from this rostrum, I think that the better fact is how the assistant to this national woe MP who shot and covered the bellies of the Fatherland in Donetsk, I think that's the best example of blasphemy that this so-called party of Prashenka is allowing himself. Just yesterday, right across from the dusty town of Zaporozhye, there was a person who was detained — think! - for organizing a pretzel in Zaporozhye district, and taking pictures of what was going on there, blackmailing those who were there. This person was actively applauding President Dusty while he was on the loose. As you can see, this is a member of Peter the Duster Party. And now, essentially. I think there's no doubt in anyone about how any political power reacts to what happens when a member of your faction brings a human helper -- and it's set up by an investigation -- who's been paying money for the murder of Katy Gandzük. He remains a member of your faction, he remains a member of your party. Here's your attitude on this. It's different. On the day Katya Gandzük was killed, Oleško ("Sarmat") was killed, a man who was direct to the Zaporez District Council, in Zaporez District Attorney's Office. He was insolently shot in broad daylight in Berdjansk. Who's in custody? Detainees immediately. We are very grateful to Arsenah Habakkuk for having done so immediately. Next. Who's the organizer? And the organizer of the one who's with the members of your party, Dusty, on all the lights. He's in custody. It's an organized crime group from Donetsk that bought a whole bunch of nightclubs in Berdjansk, and these people feared the city of Berdjansk. He's being held today as a crime organizer, directly by Sarmata. But who ordered him to kill? Who gave this dirty money to kill Olesch? I think there's a fact that's about to be revealed. So don't confuse partying with crime. Because you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u104	Please finish 30 seconds. Colleagues, I'm on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u105	And your patron, Dusty. Three days ago, what journalists showed, I think it's the best thing about blood blasphemy, what you're covering up these crimes, what you're doing to make sure the commission doesn't work. And we voted in favour of creating this commission. Just as we insist on creating a commission based on the fact that Dusty was robbed and surrounded by an army. It's still going to be proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u106	Thank you, colleagues. We want to continue for 15 minutes in connection with the fact that there are still speeches by deputies and factions. And I'm talking to my colleagues again. Taking into account the delicateness of the subject that we are discussing, it is that parents, including watching this broadcast, are as sensitive as possible and speak on the subject of TSK. Thank you very much. Please excuse me. Anton Heratchenko of the People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u107	Honorable National Deputy, Honourable Chairman, Honourable Ukrainian People! After that tragedy, with the attack on Catherine Gandzück, who led to her murder, you and I set up a temporary investigation commission to investigate the full and comprehensiveness of this case and the attacks on other activists. As a member of this interim commission of inquiry, I can say the following. All efforts to compare the situation in Ukraine with the fight against crime, with attacks against activists with the most feared times of Kuchma-Janukovich are inappropriate. To this day, I can honestly say that the law enforcement agencies of Ukraine, especially the National Police and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are not covering any criminals in pursuit and are doing everything possible to solve the resonance issues. In the case of Catherine Gandzück, 8 persons were detained, and 8 suspects were reported. Five persons who were directly involved in the crime were arrested and arrested, and they are in the compound, including the bastard who poured acid on it. On the same matter, there is an international manhunt who is rightly suspected of being the organizer of this crime. Suspected by others. On the occasion of the attack on activist IrinuNostrawski, who rocked the entire country a year ago, the police detained the person who made the attack, she's at the S.I.S.O., court is on time. On many other occasions, the police, the prosecutor’s office, the Security Service, are doing everything possible to ensure that these matters are dealt with. But remember, friends, not all criminal cases worldwide are being considered. By the way, in the United States, there is still no dispute over who ordered John Kennedy. In Sweden, in 1986, no one knows who killed Prime Minister Ulof Palme. So I'm asking you to stop dancing on bones and help law enforcement through budget allocations, through an effective and high-quality legislative base to fight criminals, criminals, and to deal with these cases in fair courts. We stop dancing on blood and on bones. Enough with the political accusations. Let us draw those who are responsible for crimes, for which there is evidence, not to exchange political calls. So I support the Attorney-General's proposal that we should consider Bill 8336 as soon as possible in this room on the facilitation of law enforcement. We did in this room a year and a half ago so that investigators and prosecutors on every piece of paper go to trial for the simplest expertise when it comes to quickly determining who shot, who cut, whose blood, whose DNA. And the next. We think -- and this is the position of the People's Front -- that we should continue the work of the interim commission of inquiry for 15 days. After that, we hear answers not only from members of the TSC but also from law enforcement officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u108	Colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. For the national MPs, it's going to be a minimum time of six minutes for us to vote. So I'm asking no one to break up. Now the closing statement is from Shahov's Will of the People. And then you speak to the people's deputies, then you vote. Please don't let anyone go. Please, Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u109	People's Will Group, Sergiyshakhov. Unfortunately, dear colleagues, this rostrum has turned into a venue for presidential elections. It's a dirty political force. Can you please tell me when this room will start working? Who knows today that there are also gang formations under the political forces? For 2.5 years from this rostrum, I told them that there is a bloody gang in the city of Severodonetsk, hiding under all political forces. Fortunately, I was heard by Vitaly Seminovich Kurilo of BPP and removed Tkakok, who entered the blood of Sergey Samarski, and removed the fourth mayor of the city. I have repeatedly addressed Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The TV station in the city has not yet been assembled and the MPs have not been called off. 20,000 signatures of people who demand to recall MPs who are murderers. I've said this a number of times, and I'm going to talk about it. Today we can do this and bring every matter to a logical conclusion, and show the whole country that criminals have to sit and answer, the greatest punishment they have today, the crueler they have to receive. And we're getting out of jail today. Borislav Bereza stated that no case today, none, had suspected the city of Severodonetsky of any of the deputies who had killed Sergey Samarski, for the money they were robbing from the trough today, 400 million dollars, had reached the trough. I'm addressing four presidential candidates today. Unfortunately, there is no Oleg Laity in the hall today. Julia Volodymyrna, Oleg Lazko, please make sure that TVC works in the city of Sevjerodonetski, people sensed what was said in the city of Sevjerodonetski. Nevertheless, I am addressing the Attorney General today, and I am addressing all the powerful authorities that are now covering the bloody gang and are not bringing the matter to an end. Please note. And please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, take me to the interim commission of inquiry from Catherine Gandzük and Sergey Samarski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, so six minutes away from the national MPs. I ask you to hold the record, and I ask you to speak in a concise manner, and let us proceed to the vote. Kugel gives the word for Soboljevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u111	Sobolje, Fatherland. It is very good that there is an opportunity to continue the subject that I have just touched. I would like to thank the work of the commission on the key issues in which they have focused, and on the conclusions that we will no doubt support. And I am convinced that the session room should support the conclusions of the previous commission in order to continue to allow, including the national deputies, and the law enforcement authorities to investigate such facts promptly. But I want to go back to the terrible murder that took place on the same day that Kathu Gandhiuk was attacked: the murder of Oleška ("Sarmata"). Imagine August of the month, 12 o'clock of the day, thousands and thousands of people around, pointing boldly at the gun they're shooting an activist. But this is not the end of history. They run away from a car owned by a government authority in the city of Berdjansk. It's like this car was stolen. Police officers have been persecuting them for nearly three hours and holding them back. Without hiding, there is a weapon from which they kill, and there are all the means that they have tried to carry out and committed this crime. These individuals immediately point to the person who was handing over money to them — the pre - Dutch criminal authority that was established in the city of Berdjansk. And then there's silence. Why is it quiet? Because when activists analyzed the pictures of those with this Donetsk criminal authority resting at resorts, they spend time, I think, with the Attorney General's Office, the police and the B.S.A. combined, the hair got up. I think the time has come when there can be no closed themes. The time has come when there can be no themes regarding individuals who are covered up by a party’s political affiliation. I think this commission should put a fat dot in it once and for all. Whoever is the President, who is not in charge of the law enforcement system, these crimes must be brought to an end, no matter who hides behind them. I think that's going to be the answer, including this commission, and what we're doing to investigate other crimes, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u112	Thank you. Chumak Victor is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u113	Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev, political party "Citizen Wave Movement". Dear colleagues, I traveled twice in the south of the country last year and was in the Hersonian region eight times. What we're seeing and what the commission opened is just the tip of the iceberg. We're the ones who didn't even kick. If you're talking about the problems in the Herson area, I can just call them. You go to the small village of Sagittarius on the Arab Arrow, and you'll see a sand-gallic mixture of sand-gallics washed away a year-old. the sand of the sea and is exported completely uncontrollable by the authorities. Why is this happening in the village of Strilkova? And next to that village, three miles [three km] away, there is a four - story building right on the beach of the head of Mr. And they can't see! And the procurator of the Herson region sees neither Mr. Vorobie's building nor his extraction of it, a sand-galic mixture. You go on to the Oleshkovsky region, and you'll see how ruthlessly, shamelessly, the whole of the woods are being cut off and exported. And that's exactly why the National Police are "in the dark" because they're just taking money for transporting each car. You go to the village of Musico near Herson -- and you'll see the largest bird in Europe that dumps up to 80 tons of follow-up near Herson, which simply poisons the air, poisons the water, and poisons the earth near Herson. You go a little closer to the sea or the Dniprovan lilies, and you'll find out how miserable the poaching of fish is. And that's what the authorities are behind. So Catherine Gandzük found herself in the midst of the enormous problems that I now call the modern - day feudalization of the country. Because Oleg Mikhailik in Odessa was at the heart of Odessa’s problems, where he was shot, which I call the modern feudalization of the country. Because another 50 activists who were attacked in the country during the past year were at the heart of the problems that I now call the country’s current feudalization. Feodals are sitting in their seats today. And these feudals have been given the opportunity to exist only by the President. You know what? In response only for providing the votes of their electorate with his territories for a second term. That's how the price of modern feudalism in the country is for President Dustenk's reelection. If we don't see you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u114	Thank you. Colleagues, three minutes left, three minutes to complete. We won't be able to look at it. We've got another speech. In conclusion, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Herachenko, is invited to the closing address. Three minutes to vote, colleagues. I'm asking everyone to look closely, to see who's not around and to invite them into the hall. Please, three minutes to vote. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u115	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to be a member of the interim commission of inquiry, and I want to express my condolences to Catherine Gandzük's father and mother once again. I am very sorry that many of us today have tried to have a brother’s throat instead of thinking with the heart that we are discussing. During his father’s intervention with Catherine Gandzück on a temporary commission of inquiry, he stated that he felt threatened personally. And I'd like to go to our power structures and ask them to talk to him and protect him in that case. It would be right for Mrs. Catherine’s parents to be protected. It seems to me that in the dust of these battalions that we have heard here, we have not heard the key is the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which does not really have the function of calling the name of the buyers, the murderers, the organizers that have done in this case already the law enforcement authorities, but should accompany and exercise parliamentary control over the investigation, but also do their "homework". And I'm asking my colleagues to make the next decision, and this is going to be responsible, not the exchange of pins here: so that immediately after the completion of the vote under the Language Act, we can vote on the three laws that our law enforcement authorities and the law enforcement agencies need to pass on and stop these things more effectively. And the Attorney-General called these laws, and we're on the board with this: it's a simplified expertise in serious crimes, especially murders; it's a stealth justice. I also support the fact that the commission was meeting for the last time in early February, when no new circumstances were discovered, more faithfully at the end of January, and so I support this initiative so that the commission would meet both the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs, and we heard more than five minutes of new circumstances, including inviting Mr. Manger. I want to say that his last interview, where he claims that when the new president comes, he will set up a new, "right," killer, that's beyond good and evil. It's not the presidents who set up the buyers and the organizers of the murders -- it's what law enforcement does. And that's not how justice is affected. And the last thing I'd like to say is, dear colleagues. This also sounded like the name Sergey Samarski (a member of the Block of Peter Prashenko), who was killed in the Sevierodonetsky, an absolutely terrible murder. And one of those versions among the eleven, the key that is being considered today, are his political views, the pro-Ukrainian views, the views of the Solidarity Party member, Peter Prashenko. And we also urge the law enforcement agencies to take this matter very seriously, because it does not have only organizers so far, and not even named customers, and unfortunately, it has not been able to apprehend the killers directly. And that's why I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u116	So, colleagues, two suggestions were made during the discussion. One of them is a letter from the will of the people asking them to replace Rybczyn Evgen Yuriovich with Shahov Sergio Volodymyrovich. One offer. And the second is the interim report of the commission. I ask literally a minute of the commission's head. And, colleagues, in 30 seconds we're voting. Take up jobs. Let him know if they support these proposals, and we vote. Please return from bed to the hall. Please, Borislav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u117	Our TSK worked to really find out if everything was done to expose the crimes against KathiGandzük and other activists who had been attacked. We distanced ourselves from political differences, it was our decision, and we worked for the outcome. Because of what we've achieved, we've got really information, we've got results on some things, and we've got what the board now trusts both society and experts. So what I'm saying is, right now, I'm asking the board to vote for the three-month extension of the commission, to bring Shahov instead of Ribczynski, and as Mrs. Irina suggests in two weeks, if it turns out, to report back to the Supreme Council. But the work of the commission is an interim report -- the commission's work for three weeks. Thank you. For three months.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u118	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm sorry to bother you all. Please prepare for the vote. And I'm putting to the vote a draft resolution on the previous report of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on the attacks on Catherine Gandzük and other civil activists (No. 10020) with a complaint on the replacement of Ribczyn Eugen to Shahov Sergy, and also on the interim report for two weeks in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis and. [[B in m in s a l in]] Intermediate report, interim report. What are you afraid of? Colleagues, this is what the chairman of the commission called it. With an interim report on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[12:16:49]] For 290 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. This is our important action, our important act. I think it's wise that we set it up today, because today was the best time to accept it. Colleagues, I'd like to emphasize that this is a 30-minute break. I'm asking everyone at 12:40 to come into the hall at 12:45 to continue our work. I'm asking for maximum mobilization. We're going to try again to get a transplant. We'll try again. I'm asking everyone to be in the hall. I'm asking you to be fully mobilized. We see that the deputies are in the hall, the main thing is that everyone is in the workplace. At 12:45, we'll continue our work. I'll see you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u119	Colleagues, 12:45. Time taken for a break is exhausted. And we're moving on to the next issue of order of the day. We next have, colleagues, a draft law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine (for some issues of the implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union). I have a great appeal to everyone, my colleagues. Let's all go back to the hall. I have a proposal that we should vote on his summary procedure. We have several dutiful government laws. In addition, I would like to inform you (Colleagues, pay attention!), which was introduced in the morning, a draft decree on the urgent investigation of the facts published in the media on the abuse at the Ucrobanprom State Concert and the involvement of officials. The decision was registered with the head of the People's Front faction, Maxim Burbak, and the head of the "Peter Prashenko Block" by Arthur Gerasim. According to the Rules, it is included in the list of organizational matters and can be placed in the order of the day’s session without a vote. And I warn you in advance that by noon, at 1:40 p.m., I would like to move on to the consideration of this decree. And we have literally an hour to support the government with the government's initiatives with which they came to Parliament today. Come on, guys, let's get out of here. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you to back me up. So my proposal is to support, colleagues, the consideration of draft Law 7473 by a reduced procedure. I would like to stress that we have a chance to pass a few laws if we now support a reduced procedure. Let's support it, colleagues. It's a Euro-Integration Law, and I invite all Euro-Integrators into the Hall so that we're filled with optimism, not pessimism. Take up your jobs, colleagues. So I'm betting on the vote. Colleagues, therefore, offer: draft Law 7473 to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote, please support. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[12:48:36]] For 104 My colleagues, I'll put it back together. Let's try it. We're really, we're just not gonna make it anymore. Let's try it, colleagues. According to factions, show us who's responsible for European integration. Yeah. I won't even read. Sad. Colleagues, please take up jobs. Colleagues, focus. We're working, we're working. Come into the hall. Let's take the hall. Euro-integration law, colleagues. Each voice has a weight. So I'm voting on a proposal: a review of Euro-Integration Law 7473 under a reduced procedure. Please support everyone. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote for the cut. Vote. [[12:49:40]] For 116 Try the third time or not even try? No, right? Okay. Let's get started. It'll be quicker. So let's move on to full consideration. And I invite you to the report of Finance Minister Marcarov Oksana Sergiyevna. And, Mrs. Oksana, you have 10 minutes, but I'm asking you to be more concise. Okay, Mrs. Oksano? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u120	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, your opinion is proposed by a bill whose title is quite technical: "To amend the Customs Code (for some matters of the implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Society and their member states, on the other hand)." However, behind this technical title is a really important bill, which is a prerequisite for reforming the customs service of Ukraine and actually creating customs duties of a European model. The bill is designed for the purpose of implementing the institutions of an authorized economic operator in Ukraine. This institution will allow us to really take the best practices and simplify customs formalities and customs procedures for a business that is responsible, that follows all procedures and that pays taxes and all customs, and does not deal with any of the violations that we hear about with you, which is our task to fight on customs. The bill proposes to introduce a fairly effective mechanism already in operation in the European Union, with the prospect of further mutual recognition provided for in Article 80 of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU, and is one of the main bases of customs cooperation between our countries, between Ukraine, the European Union and the European Union. Which will allow us to make this bill when it's implemented. First of all, it's a major simplification of customs formalities for enterprises called high-level companies. This is a prerequisite for the future recognition of the status of authorised economic operators provided by the customs authorities of both Ukraine and the customs authorities of the EU countries and the participation of Ukrainian authorised economic operators in the formation of secure supply chains in accordance with the requirements of the World Customs Organization framework standards. This will allow our business, both import and export, and our manufacturers, who have now found their customers in the markets of the European Union, to increase their competitiveness both in Ukraine and in these markets. The bill has been reviewed on a number of occasions by a profile committee, and the concept itself has been discussed for several years. So today we still have some questions that require some clarification that we and the profile committee will be working on for a second reading. However, please support this bill in the first reading, which is one of the key documents of both European integration, our map with the European Union, and the macroeconomic assistance of the European Union. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u121	Thank you. Three minutes to question the reporter. Please. National deputy Ostrovkova is invited to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u122	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Madam Minister of Finance, I have a question for you. According to the proposed bill, it is proposed to define the term "authorized economic operator" as an enterprise to which the authorities of income and assembly have issued an approved economic operator's certificate under this code. First of all, I'd like to ask you, what are the organs of incomes and congregations? Do we still have "Minzdh" alive? He's not dead yet? Why do we still not have the Customs Codex? And secondly, do you think that this deep definition reveals the true meaning of this concept? And does it correspond to the Customs Codex of the European Community?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u123	Thank you very much. We were just discussing these issues in the previous bill. As you remember, it was an authorized economic operator, now an authorized economic operator. In fact, we've taken really the standards set by the European Union for similar operators that exist in the European Union. It's about customs. You know, the key priority of the Ministry of Finance is to build a strong separate customs service, which we are currently working on in the Cabinet of Ministers, and we will also go out with legislative initiatives to bring them into line. And according to today, we have acted within the framework of the legislative definitions that give us the existing legislation to determine that it is the Ministry of Finance that will be the authority of submission, and the DFS that we hope will be divided into two services at the moment, in order to clarify the specific criteria on which certification will be issued.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u124	Thank you. Missik Vladimir Yuriovich is invited to attend. He's handing it over to Pisarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u125	Thank you. I wanted to ask. First of all, are there any indicators now that we can hear after the adoption of this law that we're going to change, or are there going to be any extra revenue that we're going to get from this adoption? I came back from Harkov yesterday. You know, people have been very busy responding to what they've been promised in this month, big payouts: there's monetaryization, and higher pensions, more specifically, repayments of debt on indexation. I would like to ask, would this law also allow for such payments? And how will our financial system survive the payments that are being made today by the Cabinet of Ministers for the month of March? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. With respect to monetary policy. The issue of the monetaryization of subsidies is the right way to go towards energy efficiency, and in order for our people to have an incentive to actually consume correctly, and the costs allocated to subsidies could stay in their possession if they actually consume them. As far as the one-time supplements we're talking about in March months are concerned, these are supplements that have been approved by the Supreme Council since the bill came to legalize the so-called Euronomers. And we confirm that these figures that have come from Euronomists are enough to make such payments. As far as this law is concerned. This law is not to make any small or great increase from the congregation. It's in order to fundamentally and completely systematically change the customs system so that we can fully, our economically authorized operators, so that they have access to European markets so that they can operate here and to simplify customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u127	Thank you. Final question. Markevich passes the word for the question to Ostrov, a national MP. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u128	Madam Minister of Finance, I definitely don't accept your answer that you're talking about revenue and assembly agencies here again, because this bill is government law. And the government, as the subject of the legislative initiative, was fully constitutional and had every authority to change what is now in the Customs Code of Revenue and Assembly by this bill to "washed organs." But you don't. And you don't do it because you want to create a hole in the form of operators that have no one to control. Because there is no balance in this bill between simplifications for business and State control in meeting the criteria and conditions for external economic operations. Customs checks are not required. Imagine, if this law is passed tomorrow, who will monitor and monitor the activities of authorized economic operators?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u129	In fact, the customs post-audit is prescribed here, and I think if the Supreme Council had supported the previous bill more than a year ago, we would have seen this institution work in Ukraine today. So once again, we ask you to support this bill in the first reading. If there are any suggestions for clarifying certain standards or work, we will, as always, open up to work with the profiling committee, prepare for the second reading of the already final version of this bill. In this version, this bill is fully supported at the expert level by the European Union. The Supreme Council fully confirms from the EU Mission that it meets both the criteria and the World Customs Organization and the European Union. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please. And it is also a brief request that we be able to consider other bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, in fact, these standards, these initiatives are discussed on the committee, starting on June 21, 2016. Overly complex standards were at the very beginning for perception, and more so for the work of our tax collectors. Therefore, all these years have been spent in conjunction with the European Commission, which has made a great deal of effort, but we have brought all the norms of the proposed legislation into line with the EU Customs Code, and in order to avoid discrimination in Ukraine, especially in the case of taxpayers in Ukraine. Therefore, following the first meeting of the Committee on June 21, 2016, the preliminary bill numbering 4777 decided to return the committee to the task of redrafting the subject of the legislative initiative. And then there were a lot of these initiatives in other bills, but comprehensively again about an authorized economic operator instead of an authorized economic operator, it's really all set out in Bill 7473, which we're looking at with you right now. First of all, we need to understand that this bill is called upon to simplify the declaration procedures currently in force. These are really the procedures that can be given to taxpayers that meet the criteria. The criteria, of course, are built so that the simplification of customs procedures can be used only by tax payers who pay taxes that are open and operating on a permanent basis. In addition, I would like to say and point out to you that the law is clearly limited to the first period in which the number of economic operators can be granted the status of authorized economic activity. Authorized economic operator. For three years such status can be granted in the number of 10, 20, and 50 respectively. Who can be granted the status of an authorized economic operator during the first three years? They're just companies that are exporting producers, importing producers at the same time. They will not be referred to as mediators, commissioners, or anything else. We want to build a system of simplifications that will give our regular payers a great deal of economic activity on the simplifications proposed by this bill. And the simplification is four: it's a general financial guarantee, it's self-imposed seals of a special type, it's a simplified declaration procedure, it's a place-by-place release procedure. In fact, in all the years of committee work, we have not been able to do everything we can so that we can adopt this law immediately. Before the second reading, there's really a number of rules that we have to disrupt, to think about, but I definitely now suggest you accept in the first reading. And the committee's decision is to take the basis of the bill and start working on it for the second reading. But the point is so deep that I ask everyone to get acquainted with the fact that we prepare for the second reading as quickly as possible and give those taxpayers the opportunity to pay taxes and to which there are no questions, and there were no questions on the part of the customs, nor on the part of the law enforcement authorities, to take advantage of the simplifications on customs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u132	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for Mrs. Ninja's question. Please, Egor Sobolev, please. Please, Mrs. Ostrick's question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u133	Dear Nina Petrovna, allow me to thank the committee for the fact that, thanks to our joint work, we have been able to make that harmful corruption bill, which was introduced for the first time by the government, which was mentioned here today by the Minister of Finance, to block and encourage the government to actually work on a bill that is more or less in line with the EU Customs Code. The next question. Please tell me, if this bill is approved tomorrow, do you think that there is sufficient institutional capacity in today's fiscal services, or do they mention in the code, revenue and assembly bodies, monitoring the activities of authorized economic operators and actually post-auditing their external economic operations? What other changes would it take to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u134	Please answer your question, Mrs. Nina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u135	I confirm that in the implementation of such complex laws, there are very often both breakdowns and distortions and so forth. But it seems to me that such progressive laws should move our customs and all customs forward. This will move them to build new technological capabilities. We know that. We're waiting for all database audits. We want to know how much our technical base is capable of adopting new, necessary changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u136	Thank you. Next question. Denisenko, please, Andrew. He won't ask questions. Pisarenko Valerius. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear Nina Petrovna, reading the conclusion of this bill. And really, one of the comments was that those systems that are trying to create up to now have some uncertainty that might be a guarantee of creating new corruption schemes. Did the committee consider the bill in that sense? That's the first one. And how do you see how much more important work we need for our second reading? Because of the scientific expertise, I've seen it offer to merge with two other bills that are before Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u138	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the following bills will partly contain the standards that are contained in this bill. So it turns out we've been cooking. The government at the same time probably four important bills just after implementing the rules in our legislation concerning the Association Agreement. And we really need these standards. This is indeed a very significant step forward and progress. But I agree with you that some of the questions we're going to have to work out. But as for the corruption component, it's now almost zero. We've just set up the number of authorized economic operators that I hope will be able to administer the State Tax Service that will be created. And I think that the number of simplifications, it's not what it was from the beginning. If we really gave all the simplifications that were offered in the first law, we wouldn't be able to raise money in the state budget at all. We now have an operator who has a deferred payment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u139	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u140	Such an authorized economic operator shall be granted a grace period of five working days from the date of release of the simplified declaration. We've talked about a lot of criteria and unfortunately, I would like to say that I would like to have this simplification set up for all tax payers who want to use one or the other option. That would be good.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Nina. You can go back to your workplace. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for MP groups and factions to discuss the bill. Please, Jaroslav Markevich. Mrs. Ostrovkova, please. I'm sorry, I didn't switch letters from the list that asked questions. This is my fault, please. Valery Karpuntsov, from the "Block of Peter Prashenka", renders the word Nina Jujanini. Please, Mrs. Nina, present the faction's position, please. Please, Nina Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I want to bring to you the thought that I have begun. And this is the idea of our faction that we would like to extend these possibilities to at least more payers so that those who can and who want to use it can use certain options. We don't need all the payers, and it's impossible for the aperios to spread such significant simplifications as for an authorized economic operator. But we should not forget that among our payers, middle-sized, small, there are those who always pay taxes and for whom customs formalities sometimes simply stop activity. We need to be careful with them, and we need to do everything possible to offer something to all taxpayers. And I would very much like the project not only to expand the basic norms of EU legislation, but also to consider only what needs to be done in order to simplify customs formalities in Ukraine at all. Because we're in an active legislation that very often raises questions when it's done. And the recent questions that we've been facing in the sweeping of the car, that's why we're also confirming it. You need more explicit treatments and the rights of the tax collectors that they use. Our faction will have to support this bill in its first reading. And I ask everyone to take these changes seriously and to support them as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u143	Thank you. And now the statement by the self-help faction representative is Mrs. Ostrovkova, who represents the position of her political power. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the concept of authorized economic operators is built on a partnership of bribes and businesses founded by the World Customs Organization. What does that mean? This means that businesses that voluntarily take measures to meet the many criteria of good offices are working closely with customs authorities to achieve the common goal of providing security, ensuring the safety of the supply chain in international supply chains. Therefore, the relationship between authorized economic operators and the customs authorities of countries should be built on the principles of transparency, correctness and accountability. Article 39 of the Customs Code of Association lays down such criteria for an enterprise to obtain that status. It's a story of compliance with customs legislation and tax rules, no criminal offences of such an enterprise. The second is the high level of control of operations and the flow of goods. And the third is the proven financial capacity. If we look at the criteria that the government has suggested in this bill, we'll see different, blurred standards here. It's compliance with legislation, a satisfactory system of commercial transport documentation, capacity to pay. The question is, Who will control these criteria today? As stated in the explanatory note to this bill, the status of an authorized economic operator is the highest level of customs confidence in the enterprise and, as a result, a list of the benefits and simplifications of customs formalities for such an enterprise. Dear colleagues, what do we have today? Do we have a customs service today? If we look at the Customs Code, we will not see any customs or customs there. We'll see revenue agencies and congregations there. Revenues and congregations created by Klimenko as a result of tax evasion by the tax office of the customs department. There's no customs today, there's no communautaires today, and there's no enforcement of this law if it works tomorrow. But given the fact that this bill is our obligation under the Association Agreement, taking into account what is happening now, indeed, is the reform of the fiscal service, which will result in it being divided into the State Tax Service and the State Customs Service, I consider it necessary to vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, and then, on the basis of our committee, to work on it substantively. Remove the distortion, remove the blurred standards that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is currently writing about in its conclusion. And most importantly, we have to create some kind of fuses that would make it impossible for operators to get the flow of smuggling and raw imports through. We should make it impossible for them to have any preference over other taxpayers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u145	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u146	And to allow the flow of customs to shift from other ZED entities to artificially to such authorized economic operators. And that's why we have to support it today, to create a powerful, politically unattractive customs service, to create a powerful customs audience. I vote in favour of this law solely for one reason: because in its "transitional positions" there is a point that customs should, within 6 months of the date of its entry into force, create a customs unit for the customs audit accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u147	Thank you. And the last performance. Please, Valery Pisarenko. We invite you to your word, and you will present the position of the Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u148	Thank you. In fact, here, I don't think there's a lot of expert experts on automated economic operators. But I think we have more questions about customs. We were recently told that hundreds of billions of dollars will soon be transferred from customs to the economy of corruption. This means that we've actually been confirmed that there are billions in customs corruption today. This law, I hope, will be one of the laws that will help do this. If you read the analysis that we're given to this law today, that is, including the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, as well as what experts write, it's really impossible to approve in general, there's still work to be done. But in my opinion, we need to talk about what happens to people when we work with both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and the customs. I was in Kharkiv yesterday, meeting people. Everyone's talking about the numbers that politicians are telling them about today during the election campaign, and when they ask, we've done so well that today they can raise wages, pensions and so on. I don't think we're going to have any miracles, and we need to look at where the cost of the economy is going to work. I think it's the customs office that can give us a boost to the money that's in the shadows today and that's in corruption. That's why we would really need to look at maybe the package and the bills that apply today's customs operations. Many of them today, I understand, have accumulated. And it would be very important for us to hear what mechanisms today we're getting the billions out of corruption, and they're going to move into the pockets of citizens who are being cheated today in elections that they're going to get money and they're going to live better. I mean, when they talk about indexation and monetaryization, nobody says it's a one-time payout that won't go on. And today we need to think about where to look for, really, money for people's needs. They can either be a way of eliminating corruption and channeling these funds into the economy, or by increasing the economy, which we also don't hear from the authorities today. So let us take a very responsible approach. And when we talk about bills, let's talk about the result for people right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u149	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up for a speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and for that, six minutes, I suggest we set aside, given that we have a lot of bills to consider today. Igor Artushenko is invited to the floor. Passes the word to Maxim Chicken. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, it is a pleasure to observe this professional discussion. Indeed, the bill is justly determined in this room that it is really progressive, it has a very powerful economic character for the whole country. First of all, it is obvious that this bill will contribute to the deregulation of entrepreneurial activities, and I certainly hope that it will have the effect of increasing external trade. And these are jobs, these are wages, as the previous speaker stressed, this is eventually an increase in revenue to the state budget of Ukraine. This bill, defined by all experts, is one of the priorities in the road map for Ukraine's implementation of the Association Agreement with the European Union. And it will obviously allow much of the presence of Ukrainian goods on the European market and on the European market. The introduction of this bill will certainly contribute to the growth of the economy. And I'm convinced that on the committee this bill will be better for the second reading than for the first reading. We will work on it and in the near future, without delay, we will reintroduce it to the adoption of a law already in force throughout this bill into this session hall. Let's work for a joint, powerful document that will help increase Ukraine's economy. We vote "yes" unanimously and very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u151	Thank you. And the next performance. Please, Mrs. Ostrovkova, your position. Colleagues, I would like to warn you that five minutes remain before the vote and request to return to the session room. Mrs. Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, let's find out who these authorized economic operators are. Because today my colleagues in the hall come up to me and ask me what it is. This business has a very good history, which is subject to external economic relations, which is an importer, exporter, manufacturer, carrier or broker (a agent), and which has for many years been subject to customs legislation and is accordingly entitled to obtain from the Fiscal Service or from customs authorities the status of an authorized economic operator and to make use of appropriate simplifications. Let's figure out what the simplification is. First of all, it's a total financial guarantee. Second, it's self-imposed seals of a special type. Thirdly, this is a simplified declaration procedure. And fourthly, this is the procedure for release at the location. What does that mean? This means that in fact, by authorizing and using an enormous degree of trust from the customs authorities of the country concerned, the enterprise is carrying out the customs clearance of goods without customs. So the location release procedure means the cargo is coming in, the operator-business is just reporting the customs, carrying the goods to its warehouse and unloading them. And customs only intervene when she thinks there's a violation. This institution really works in the countries of the European Union. But there is a strong institutional, independent customs administration that can control compliance, monitor and monitor compliance by authorized or authorized economic operators with all customs and external economic requirements. Do we have such an organ today? I'll tell you there isn't. Since we don't have a customs audit today, it's part of the tax audit unit. Imagine if this law becomes effective tomorrow, who will control its observance? So once again, I stress that European instruments are good, they need to be implemented in our legislation, especially in view of the Association Agreement. But first of all, we need to create an independent, politically unbiased customs administration before the second reading, which will really facilitate business in international trade. And only then will such enormous simplifications be allowed to individual subjects of external economic activity. Because there must be a balance between the rights of entrepreneurs and the interests of the state. Thank you. And please support me in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Colleagues, please don't go into the hall. I'd like to emphasize. Colleagues, don't leave, please. Don't leave. Take a look at someone. I would like to point out that after voting for this bill, I will re-enter the agenda of the day's session, including transplantation. We were missing literally a few votes. So after the vote, I ask you not to depart for this law. I'm going to propose to reintegrate into the daytime order, including transplantation. So, after the vote, stay put. Now, everyone, please come into the hall. And, colleagues, I remind you that in the morning there was a draft Order 10104, which was immediately considered by the committee, and at 13:40, we're going to go into the debate on this. This is a regulation that deals with organizational issues of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it does not need to be included in the agenda of the day session. I'm warning you about what we're going to do before lunch. It's about investigating the facts published in the media about the abuses at the Ucroborprom State Show and the involvement of officials. At 13:40 we move on to the consideration of this law. Now, colleagues, I urge everyone to return to their jobs. I see not everyone's in the hall yet. Colleagues, please, from the bed of government, an extremely important bill. And the head of Nina Peter's Committee at each Conciliation Council stresses it, now we have a chance to accept it, but we have to be there. So, colleagues, we're taking up jobs, come into the hall. Fellows, come back so we don't come back a few times. So I'd like you to prepare. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Customs Code of Ukraine (for some issues of the implementation of Chapter 5 of Chapter IV of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union) (7473) as a basis, colleagues. Euro-integration law. I'm asking all of the Euro-Integrators to be in the hall. Please vote, please support the base, colleagues. Careful and responsible. We vote, every vote in weight, every vote in favour of Euro-Integration. We vote, colleagues, and we are responsible and considerate. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:26:31]] For 209 We didn't make it. Look who's gone. Colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the hall. We talk at all international meetings about the importance of European integration. To do the deal, not to go to the briefings, but to be in the workplace and to do the MP's job, to vote. Everyone, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. But in order to regain the law, we need deputies to return to the Hall. Everyone, please take your seats, stop the discussion, get ready for the vote. So, are your colleagues ready? Is the mood responsible? Are intentions serious? Vote. I'm voting on the proposal to return to draft Law 7473, and I'm asking you to support this proposal. Colleagues, every voice, every voice we count. Please vote and please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We support European integration, please vote for return. Vote, colleagues, every voice. Vote! [[13:28:01]] For 214 I'll do it again. Colleagues enter the hall. Let me show you through the factions. Come into the hall, look who's gone, invite me to the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 93, People's Front – 64, Opposition Block – 1, Self-help – 13, Parenthood – 6, Will of the People – 10, Rebirth Party – 4, non-fractional – 20. Colleagues, we probably have potential. All I'm asking is for everyone to be in the workplace during the vote. I, colleagues, very convincingly ask everyone to be in the workplace vote. Please be prepared, please be mobilized, colleagues, and please vote everyone. I would like to stress that after this law, we will reintroduce the day-to-day session, including transplantation. We support each other. We support each other. And I'm voting once again on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7473, the Euro-Integration Law. And I ask you all to vote, and I ask you all to support me, colleagues. That's the whole unit coming up. Guys, come on in. I'll wait another 10 seconds. European integration is not a briefing, it's a job in the hall. Please, take your jobs, come in. There must be voices. It's probably already the main thing for everyone to be in the workplace right now. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft Law 7473 and ask everyone to vote. Please support, every voice we count as responsible. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote. We're backing it up. Colleagues, we vote carefully. Voting and supporting. Vote! Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:30:23]] For 238. And finally, the Eurointegrators are still coming. Now I'm putting it to a vote. So draft Law 7473 is the basis. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Careful! We're voting on the basis. [[13:30:54]] For 234 Decision taken. Congratulations, colleagues. And let's not split up. I'm asking the question of putting a day session in order to make a decision. So I'm putting the draft Law on Ratification of the Multilateral Implementation Convention on Taxation Contracts (0216) into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support. Vote. To make a decision today. [[13:31:40]] For 230 Decision taken. Next. Draft Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, Financing Terrorism and Financing the Spread of Weapons of Mass Destruction (9417). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, stand by, 9417. Vote. [[13:32:16]] For 205 Next up, colleagues. "On the use of anatomical materials to humans" (9461) and two alternatives. We lacked literally a few votes before lunch, colleagues. Do not leave the hall during this vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, please vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote, vote. [[13:32:53]] For 230 We're good, colleagues. Hello, hello! The following is 9532: draft Law on common transit. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making, today for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[13:33:23]] For 229 Decision taken. The next is 9039: the draft Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act. 9039 - inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please vote, please support me, colleagues, we're voting very carefully. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:33:54]] For 228 Decision taken. My colleagues, I have an address for you. We have a high concentration level, I said we'll move on to the verdict at 1:40. Can we accept the ratification of Qatar now with a brief discussion? We can. We have included, colleagues, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Protection of Investments between Ukraine and the State of Qatar. I'm asking you, colleagues, for a few votes. First. So, colleagues, I'm putting this draft law, which we have included, an international agreement, so that we can adopt this bill as a whole. Please vote, please support me, colleagues. We support our international committee, we support international agreements, we vote for ratification. Vote, colleagues, support, each vote please, vote. We won't have another chance, colleagues. We won't have another chance. [[13:34:51]] For 238. Decision taken. Hello. Do we have a ratification of Qatar? Please. Please, I invite Mrs. HannuGopco to read the following ratification with Qatar. Please announce, read it. Colleagues, don't split up, please. We're so hard to collect voices, don't split.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u154	My colleagues, thank you very much for your support right now, because, in fact, exports of goods from Ukraine to Qatar are increasing, and we see that the freight is also 38 percent, there are prospects. So thank you for this deal. There is another Agreement – 0202: on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the State of Qatar on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto. Please support her. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered it at its meeting. Considering the time limit today, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u155	So we vote. Mrs. Hanna, bill number? Number. 0202. I'm putting draft Law 0202 on the ground and in general. Colleagues, there'll be no other way. Colleagues, there'll be no other way. Keep it up, fellows. Please vote. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we won't have another chance, you know that. Please be supportive. [[13:36:21]] For 240 Decision taken. Colleagues, pay attention! Now. We just got into the order of the day session 0216. Yeah? 0216: ratification of the Multilateral Convention. It's just like an international agreement. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. I say again, you understand me correctly, colleagues. We won't have another chance. I'm asking you to support 0216 as a whole. Vote. I'll back you up, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please vote. Colleagues, back up, these are international agreements. We vote, each voice has a weight. Please be supportive. Please vote, please support. Vote. Members of the Euro-Integration Committee, please vote. [[13:37:11]] For 215 Guys, we didn't make it. The International Agreement! We won't have a chance anymore. Please, colleagues, take up jobs, do not go during. Support me, colleagues, please. Mr. Valerius, support 0216 as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues. Be careful, every voice. Don't go in the hall, we're voting, please support. Vote, Andry Volodymyrovich. We support, colleagues, we vote responsibly. Please support, we vote. Every voice, every colleague, every voice, international agreement. Vote, support, support. [[13:37:56]] For the 220. Colleagues, six votes, I'll do it again. I'm asking you very much, colleagues, we won't have another chance. Please take up jobs. Colleagues, please, six votes. Ask anyone who's not in the hall, please come in. Colleagues, six votes, please. Everyone in the hall, take it, support it, colleagues. So, 0216 support the foundation and in general, support the international agreement. Mrs. Maria, please vote. We support, colleagues, for European integration, for international agreements. We vote, six votes, each voice weighs. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. We'll support, colleagues, we'll support an international agreement. Voting, supporting. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:38:53]] For 231 Decision taken, colleagues. As I was saying, at 13:40 we move on to the decree, and then the matter of budget, colleagues. Please be in your seats. So we're going to look at it. I wanted to report that the previous decision 0216 was adopted, the law was passed. And we're moving to the draft Ordinance on the Immediate Investigation of the Facts Published in the Media on Abuses at the Ucrobanprom State Concert. I want to emphasize, this is an organizational issue, it doesn't need to be included in the agenda of the day session. And so I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote, please support. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:39:46]] For 178. Decision taken, colleagues. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. After the TSC, colleagues, budget issue. Budget questions are next in order of the day, so please be in your seats. Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, Bill No. 10104 has been introduced for your consideration. This is a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the urgent investigation of the facts published in the media regarding the abuses at the Ucroprom State Concert and the involvement of officials. We all learned on Monday from the media about the abuse at the Ucrobanprom State Show and about the involvement of officials in these facts. We believe that society requires the fastest, most thorough study of these facts. And that's why we're expanding the mandate of an already-acting interim investigation committee to investigate the facts of corruption in the defence field. And that's why we think that the TSC should now have authority to investigate the facts that affect both 2018 and 2019. We believe that the TSC should hold a public meeting to invite the Attorney General of Ukraine, the SAP, the NAB, the Ministry of Defence, the State firm Ucrobanprom, the officials involved in these facts. And it must be a public, open session where any deputy can come from any faction and ask any question. Let's move on. We believe that before this investigation, a committee of law enforcement, a committee of national security and defence and an anti-corruption committee should be involved in the meetings of the interim commission of inquiry. Above all, society demands to know the truth. If these facts are to be confirmed, then officials must bear the most severe criminal responsibility. If not, society should learn the whole truth. Dear colleagues of all factions, I invite you to vote in favour of this project in order for society to finally learn the facts of the abuses at the Ukrabonprom State Show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. And the word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Safety and Defence of Sergei Pashinsk. Mr. Sergei, we invite you to your word. Please. Dear Mr. Sergio, we invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Defence and Security has held meetings on the issues of vitality and the military-industrial complex and the state of the military's resilience on a number of occasions in its sessions. It was for the initiative of members of our committee that the Supreme Council supported the establishment of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the facts of the dissolution of the army during the period 2004 - 2017. The factions were delegated to this commission by its most competent representatives. The commission met on several occasions, and several criminal cases have already been committed against the Commission’s materials. Taking into account the great social resonance of the journalistic investigation, the committee today supports the adoption of a decision that entrusts the established interim commission of inquiry to investigate the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the undermining of the State's defence capabilities between 2014 and 2017, to extend any violations in the defence area to 2018-2019. And the Defence and Security Committee unanimously supported the decision to approve the decision. Once again, the adoption of this decision will give us the opportunity to respond without delay to society, to the Supreme Council and to all of us the urgent questions raised in such a resonant journalistic investigation. Please support the decision and ask the commission to begin its work immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u159	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, I'd be happy to offer, but I understand what it is. Vote. Is there no objection? [[B in m in s a l in]] Discussion. I'm asking you to sign up. Of course. There was an offer, I put it in the hall. And now, please register with groups and factions for discussion. We're not going to violate the Rules, but there was a proposal from the Hall -- we're voting. I made it clear to my colleagues -- no, of course we'll discuss it. Please present the position of the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction from the Peter Dustenka Block. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u160	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! First of all, on behalf of the Peter Prashenko faction, I'd like to say that our tough position, which the reborn Ukrainian army has been a major achievement in the last five years. That's why both the President of Ukraine and our faction, like no one else, are interested in transparency and detection of any abuse in the material security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. That is why we are interested in the immediate investigation of published information. Because any abuse in the area of security of the Ukrainian army immediately gives rise to the Fifth Column for political speculation and lies. We are absolutely convinced that the sphere of national security and defence of our nation must be absolutely transparent and legitimate. That is why an interim investigation commission has been set up to investigate exterminations in the army since 2004. And what we're saying right now is that unfortunately, it was stolen in both the time of Gristenk's secretary of defense and in the time of Yulia Timoshenko's prime minister. And now more than the clear words of Julia Volodymyrovna in the spring of the 14th year that we can't bring tanks and armies out of the barracks, because she knew as well as anyone that the army was stolen and we can only defend ourselves with those things that had not yet been stolen. I would like to remind you that the TSC's membership in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is composed of almost all the factions of Parliament, including the Fatherland, the Self-Help and the Radical Party. The existing TSC already has experience, methods and access. The position of our faction is consistent and firm: all those involved in the theft must always bear responsibility, and the untouchable cannot be here. And I would also like to say. I'm now addressing the Fatherland faction and myself to Julius Volodymyrna, who is the one who's driving away the moment of betrayal. Your MP, IvanKulco, is a member of the current TSC. If you do not trust him, replace him with another or become a member of this TSC. But if you're not interested in the truth, if you don't really want to stop any abuse in the field of safety and defense, don't stop the TSC from working and trying to move its work to the plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u161	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u162	translate work into political manipulation and electoral rhetoric. The elections will take place tomorrow, and the issue of national security, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine will remain vital because Russia has not abandoned its imperial ambitions. And here's the simple question: either you're in favour of strengthening our defense, or you're in favour of weakening the Armed Forces into the Kremlin Treaty. Thank you for your attention. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u163	Thank you. Please make the next statement. Mr. Skorik, National MP. He represents the position of the opposition side. Mr. Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, you are now watching and seeing on your screens the degree of insolence and hypocrisy that the authorities have shown for once. Instead of making a temporary follow-up to the commission about what journalists have published, the authorities are trying to lead the investigation. You've just had a person standing before you who is personally in charge of all the trials in the Croatprome, and she's going to investigate her actions. Instead of making a temporary commission of inquiry that would really be working to see if the seniors, including the President, were involved in these violations, are trying to "instigate" a completely different scenario when they're talking again about the forerunners and other nonsense. I call upon the people's deputies, who are now in the hall, not to vote in favour of this draft decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u165	From the Rebirth Party, Pisarenko. And, colleagues, as concise as possible so that we can consider the budget, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u166	Thank you. You know, actually, honestly admitting that there's been so many journalistic investigations lately, and there's been even more money than the one we're talking about in the behavior of bihus journalists. Info, it's a wonder that this investigation is being so stressed right now. But I want to say that it's very good that it is now. And look, it's probably a very important investigation, if Parliament finally, for this cadence, I don't remember that we have a lot of TSCs in various investigations, but now we've come to what we need to investigate. And you know, when they're talking about what it takes to put this in another TSC somewhere, I mean, what we're going to do with you tomorrow. I understand there's going to be a second series of journalistic investigations today, and we're going to see new facts. Maybe there'll be more light on what happens when you spend money on defense. So we should probably come to the point that if we want Parliament to have at least a little trust from people, we need to react more quickly. Today in Parliament trusts a few percent. I think if we don't now answer what happens when we spend on defense, it's going to be zero. And that's why it's very important for us now to create a separate TSC and look at all the investigations involving the Defense Prome and then make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u167	Thank you. Sergey's gone mad, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u168	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, what was the commission you wanted to transfer these materials to? The evidence says that these facts were investigated by NABU, the Attorney General’s Office. The commission! Where is your report intermediate, temporary, immediate regarding these facts? PokiBius. Info didn't publish what's going on at the Presidential Lenin cousin. PokiBius. Info didn't publish what was created in the Department of Defense warehouses, when the same parts that were owned by the Ministry of Defense were sold to the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Road Defense, the greater cynicism, I don't think there could be. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's exactly what the commission's gonna say, lie or something! And you don't want that commission that was put in by all the factions except the faction of Peter Dustenk and the People's Front. All others have submitted their representatives to a special temporary commission to investigate these facts. What are you covering? What do you want to hide? Why do you pretend that you want to investigate something if all the materials were in the Attorney General's Office, if all the materials were in the NABU, if all the materials were allowed to be investigated by this commission? This is done for one purpose: to talk and do nothing. That's why the factions of Parliament prepared an appropriate draft decree, which was submitted by the Self-Help faction, the Father's Party, the Radical Party, the Rebirth Group, the Will of the People. And this can be checked directly at the Supreme Council Secretariat. All the materials are presented to be created.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u169	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u170	Five days left, the rule. Please make it straight now, you have the right to do it, gentlemen, out of two factions, and we will immediately vote on this decision. I think it's going to be the right way out of this situation, so that this investigation isn't just publicized, like the Attorney General's Office, the N.A.U.U.A. and others did, but it was brought to completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u171	So, colleagues, one more minute. The Shepherd of Self-Help and the Little Radalny. In two minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. I ask all the heads of factions. Okay, and then from "The Will of the People" one more minute. In three minutes, we're going to vote. Everyone, please be at your place of work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u172	Taras Shepherd, Self Help Union. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, that Janukovic came to power in 2010, and he thought that his kingdom would never end. But people made their decision -- and you see where it is today. The greatest cynicism that came in 2014 was that, instead of helping their country, helping their army, helping volunteers, helping military personnel, they started making money on them. And they thought this secret would never become obvious. Many locks of secrecy were closed, and they hoped that all of this would sink and that no one would ever get to the truth. But it can never be hidden. Self-help over the course of four years has consistently stressed that if there is no civilian parliamentary control in Parliament, if there is no Ucrobanprom, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, other force organs, the Security Service will not be subject to Parliament and through the Parliament of the people, we will always have corruption in those concerts and at those businesses. And today, thanks to the people, thanks to the journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u173	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u174	The truth comes to all of our societies today. And today, to be honest, I supported the idea of colleagues separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u175	Okay, 10 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u176	But when I hear that even this commission is being opposed by regionals, they may be afraid of a connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u177	Thank you. Colleagues, we've got minutes. Please, just a minute. I have to give all the factions a minute, colleagues. Please, Lilka. Only I won't add time, keep in mind. I won't add.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u178	DmitriLenko, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, it doesn't really matter what commission they're investigating, most importantly, our demand, the Radical Party is an investigation. We insist that these crimes, which have already been committed since the beginning of the war, are absolutely immoral. If the facts cited by journalists are really truth and truth, they must be investigated, and all criminals punished as severely as possible. That's why yesterday we registered a ruling with colleagues that suggested that a separate commission of inquiry investigate these facts, because they are extremely important to every Ukrainian today. In fact, the commission that I'm entering, which I've been investigating since 1993 and 2014, because all of these crimes have just led our army to fail to reflect the proper aggression of the Russian Federation, it has to be investigated, and everyone who has taken part in this once has to be punished. But what happened after 2014, when the blood started to spill, and after that, even the high - ranking officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u179	So, colleagues, after a minute of voting, please take up jobs. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. But in a minute, we're going to vote. Please, from "The Will of the People" Jaroslav Moskalenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I expected this presidential campaign to be the most dirty in the history of Ukraine, especially because the country's external enemies have great interest. There is no doubt that the scandal surrounding our defenses has an effect, not on justice, but on the future of will. His authors have calculated the time well and used our acquisition of freedom of speech. I want justice to say that this criminal case started back in the 17th year. Nevertheless, the MP's "will of the people" clearly insists that the Ukrainian society needs specific, direct answers, even if these are groundless accusations. Next: about the TSC. Colleagues, we are not the first day in Parliament, and many are not the first ones. Saying TSC without the TSC law -- its impact will be no more than talking in a talk show on one of the TV channels. It's the Parliament's fault. Everyone sitting in this room is guilty of not having a law on TSC. The Supreme Council did not provide itself with effective tools. So let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u181	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u182	Thank you. The MPs are ready to vote in favour of all the TSCs, for all the proposals that will be in this room to shed the truth and light on the problem that is in the country today. And it doesn't matter, it's the son, the godfather, the wedding, or the brother, the punishment should be the maximum.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u183	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's go to the vote. But let me tell you, 30 seconds. I'll remind you that in the last two years, we've created only two committees: the death of Katy Hanszük and the safety of her. And this committee, I remind you, is investigating all the crimes by the age of 18. Not till the 14th, until the 18th. We don't trust this committee? She's got all the members of all the factions. Now, the proposal is to give her a separate commission, a separate one: to investigate immediately the materials that were published in the media for the purchase of earrings, kits and equipment for Ucroborprom companies. Anyone who wants an investigation will vote. Anyone who wants to show that we are in favor of an honest investigation will vote. And so, colleagues, I'm voting on the draft Order 10104 on abuses at the Ucroborprom State Show and on the involvement of officials in general. Colleagues, please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. All crimes must be investigated. Vote. Colleagues, we have a responsible vote. [[14:00:06]] For 229 Decision taken. Hello. What's important is that we got the problem. By factions, please, by factions. And every month. Colleagues, on the spot, now the budget. Peter Poshenko's Block – 106, People's Front – 66, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 16, Parenthood – 0, Will of the People – 13, Rebirth Party – 0, non-fractional – 25. My colleagues, I have an address for you. Colleagues, pay attention! Attention! I'm asking everyone to be seated. Listen to me carefully, colleagues. I have a few requests. One is a transplant. Are we ready to vote, colleagues, briefly and quickly? Ready. Next is Crimea. Judge. Remember, a few votes were needed? And the third is the budget. Ready? Let's get together, fellows. So it's me. I've already gone on for 15 minutes. So first. And I'd like everyone to be in position, colleagues. These few minutes, they have a very big weight for people's lives. Keep your distance, colleagues, be responsible. So the first is transplantation. I'd like to invite you to the floor, Sisoyenko. No! No! [[B in m in s a l in]] Who? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mantis is one minute. One minute. And, colleagues, come in, come into the hall. Mantis, one minute, and we vote. Colleagues, you know how hard it is to get votes, you know, we won't be able to find them at any other time. So I urge everyone to be in the hall for a few minutes, colleagues, to be in the hall. Please, Mrs. Olga.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, we have three bills for your consideration: Bill 9461 (author MariaIonova), Bill 9461-1 (authors – Bogolithic and members of the Committee on Health) and a joint agreement between the authors and the committee and a bill 9461-d (worked). The purpose of this bill is to overcome the disaster created by the Ministry of Health, which, in order to implement the Transplant Act, which entered into force on January 1, 2019, did not create the necessary registers for doctors to work openly and transparently. This bill suggests that we make sure that today, once again, we fill this gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Ola. So the committee came together on one bill -- 9461-d, and around it, everyone was able to unite. Colleagues, we go into the hall, we take jobs, please. Colleagues, every single one of you, probably using social networks, have been talking to you for two hours from people who are already losing relatives because they don't have this law. Don't play games, come into the hall, colleagues. Vote. I'm putting in a draft Transplant Act (9461-d) as a whole. Please vote, please support. Colleagues, every voice, return to the hall, return to the hall, enter the hall, colleagues. We vote in general, please support, please vote, colleagues, every vote, we vote. We vote for people's lives, we vote, we vote for colleagues, we vote for people's lives. [[14:03:59]] For 231 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, next. We've talked about it, we've even discussed it: the draft law on the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory. Chubarov came to see me this morning. I'm asking you to back him up. Come on, colleagues, 9331, who supports, please support, please vote. We support our Crimean Tatars, we support the Ukrainians in Crimea, we vote 9331 in general. Vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote! For the Crimean Tatars, for the Ukrainians in Crimea. Vote. I'll back you up, colleagues, I'll back you up. Each voice has a weight. Vote. [[14:04:52]] For 212 Not everyone understood. 30 seconds, please, Hotcharyenko. My colleagues, come into the hall. We've discussed it before, everyone knows it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, this is a very simple law. The authors are all members of the Crimea Interfractional Union. He predicts one thing. The point is that the President by his decree changed the names of the courts, and now in the law that was passed after the annexation, "On guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine," the wrong names of the courts. And that led to, for example, that we can't judge, for example, now the traitor-deputy of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crim Grivkowski, because there is no court in accordance with the law to which the materials should be submitted to the prosecutor's office. Therefore, this law, the adoption of this law, will allow for the judgment of criminal traitors. I very much ask everyone who says "Crime is Ukraine" to support this very short technical law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u187	Colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] My colleagues, listen to Chubarov. Listen to Chubarov! What's up, colleagues? Listen to Chubarov! What difference does it make to you, colleagues? Get up. Mr. Rephat, just go up, say, do you support the law? Turn on 10 seconds. Say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, well, there is. There, indeed, the authors of this bill are all members of the Crim interfractional group. We've met several times with the judges, with the prosecutor's office, and it's a really technical law not to hold a case against traitors, so that we can start cases on all the cases that are currently taking place in the Autonomous Republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u189	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chubarov. Thank you. So, colleagues, 9331. I'd like your support, colleagues. We don't have any other time. Please vote. We'll support the Crimean Tatars. We'll support our Ukrainian brothers in Crimea. Vote. We're voting 9331 as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, be responsible. We won't have another chance to vote. [[2:07:01]] For 217 Six votes. Again, colleagues, come in. What? Based on what? Based on, colleagues, based on, 9331 on the basis. Voting, supporting. We vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. Please, every voice has weight, please support. [[14:07:34]] For 231 And the budget, the colleagues, the last is the budget. Colleagues, I'm asking you to get ready. We have a budget to consider for the local communities before noon. I very much ask you, colleagues, all to be contagionized. And I'm now announcing the passage to Bill 9476. I'd like to invite Marcarova, one minute. Mrs. Oksano, 1 minute. Come into the hall, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we ask you to support the changes to the Budget Act. Dear colleagues, this is a technical but very important bill. When you and I passed the Budget Act, a number of elections were scheduled. Because of the military situation in a number of these communities, they did not happen, but in the State Budget, which we voted in November, we included funding for these OTGs, not the districts. And in fact, we just have to correct it so that those areas where the election doesn't take place, so that they can get the money back. It's very important because we've approached them all we could in January, in February, and now without these changes, we can't just finance these funds that are planned for the OTG, where the elections didn't take place, for the districts. Therefore, it is a great request to support the financing process in March.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-28-m0.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. All of us know this, everyone understands the importance of this issue of community support. We just need to mobilize. I'm putting in draft Law 9476, colleagues in general. We'll support local communities, colleagues. I ask you to vote responsibly, every vote. Come into the hall, we support 9476 as a whole. We support local communities, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Every voice. Please take your place. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote. We're backing it up. Colleagues, I'm really asking for everyone's support. [[14:09:37]] For 227 Decision taken. And, colleagues, we have three minutes. Attention! She also asked Markarov to include another law, just to include it. Come in, 30 seconds, colleagues. We've already included this, there's been a few votes missing. 9417 is a bill on the legalization of proceeds obtained in a criminal way. Just put the day session in order, just put it in. Please vote. Please be supportive. Just getting into the agenda of the day session. Vote. We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Just getting into the agenda of the day session, we won't be looking at it, colleagues. [[14:10:21]] For 155 It's not a decision, colleagues. I want to remind you that under the State Budget Act (9476), we voted on the technical and legal rights that were brought before the committee during the review, generally with technical and legal rights. And I ask you to take this into account when preparing for the signing of this draft law. Colleagues, it was a difficult morning meeting, but I remind you, at the evening session, the laws on ecology and the transition to the Language Act, the beginning of the speech law. I'm asking everyone to be in the room at 4:00 to continue our work. And this morning's plenary session, I declare closed.
