ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please take up jobs to participate in the registration. So, if you'd like to conduct your registration, please register. [[16:01:54]] 358 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And, colleagues, I want to make a message right away. By noon, I had a conversation with the head of the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the undermining of the state’s defences. I would like to point out that I have been informed by the chairman of the commission that the meeting will take place at 14:15 a.m. In the morning at the faction heads meeting, we came to a common understanding that the commission was to take place as soon as possible. That's why I'm calling on the board members to hold it tomorrow. I understand that there are a lot of materials that are available for document processing, but I don't think we can drag down with the commission and with the information of society. And I would like to point out that our decision on the interim commission of inquiry states that it should be held jointly with the Security and Defence Committee, the Anti-Corruption Committee. And I call on both the committees and the members of the interim commission of inquiry immediately tomorrow after the session to start working as a temporary commission of inquiry and to inform society of the facts that have been reported to the media. And I hope that the members of the TSC will listen to my advice and my recommendation. So, colleagues, I want to remind you that by noon we had finished on line 39. And we're going to start looking at 39 rights right now. The author is not corrected. Yes. It's German, isn't it? Please. I'm sorry. German, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! We're being examined today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u3	I ask you to speak in the national language, and you speak it well and beautifully. And please don't make unnecessary conflicts when we work systematically and in harmony. Please speak in national language. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u4	Andrei Vladimirovich! I would like to say that the people of Ukraine are hearing that we are today addressing the issue of language in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u5	I repeat my request to you, Mr. Germano, to express my position in the State language. I appeal as Head of the Supreme Council to you, not insulting, not demeaning, but with great respect to every national MP. I ask you in the State language to participate in the discussion. And unfortunately, colleagues, now turn on the microphone, really, don't make a conflict where you don't have to make a conflict, but I'm going to have to turn off the microphone. I'm asking you in a national language, and I'm really asking you, I'm treating you with respect, like any national MP. Turn on the microphone to the German National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u6	Dear Andrei Vladimirovich, I want you to speak publicly about your speaker's chair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u7	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone. Regrettably, there is a decision of the Constitutional Court that makes clear, and I am very sorry, and I am sorry that you are simply tearing the session apart by improper conduct. Every national MP has the right to speak in this room, each national MP has the right to express his or her position. And as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have been the guarantor of this. I have only one request: please in the national language, and the word will be given to everyone. Unfortunately, right now I don't have the opportunity to let you continue. And I very much ask, once again, with respect to you, to speak in the language of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Let's move on to the next one. 41st. Don't insist. 41st, insists. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that part of the first article of article 1 says that the only official official language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language. That's absolutely fair, and we're writing it down. But this is where I would just like to clarify the situation in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, whose status, I'm sure, we're going to change and make some additions to the Constitution of Ukraine. So my amendment is, "In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, in all spheres of social life, except in cases defined by law, along with the national language, Crimean Tatar language is used as the language of the indigenous people of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u9	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chubarov, this law does not govern languages other than Ukrainian. But I want to make this point, Crimecatatar language is mentioned in the text in a number of cases where it can be applied at the same level as the state, for example in filmmaking. If this law is adopted, the Supreme Council should give the government a clear deadline for preparing and submitting a new bill to Parliament, which we discussed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u11	Thank you. I'm voting number 41. She was rejected by the committee, and the committee head explained why. Please vote in favour of the amendment, please vote. [[16:07:46]] For-50 The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, I would like to stress that 39 right-handers insist on voting. I want to point out that the authors. Since it is edited, they insist that both Germany and Shufrich be fully accepted. So, colleagues, I'm putting a motion to vote so that the 39th amendment is fully accepted. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u12	I mean, in Ukrainian, we're not Stepan Rudansky's bulls, we're national deputies, and I'm sorry, you're not a shepherd. Honorable Speaker of Parliament, give me your word, the national MP, behind whom stands a million and a half. I was going to say. As I was going to say, since you forced me to have this conversation and to defend my interest in the oath, I would like to place the second on the stand for article 39. Regarding article 39. The 39 amendments we are dealing with. Let's take a look at what's going on. The only national language in Ukraine is the Ukrainian language. Who's going to challenge that? The status of Ukrainian as the only national language. Where is this recorded in the Constitution? Who came up with this? On what basis, and who will see it? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u13	30 seconds to complete. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u14	It is an integral element of the constitutional system. That's it. It's an amorphous definition, which is in law theory. Dear colleagues, and we ask that we rule out public humiliation, contempt. And so on. Please tell us on what basis does the failure to comply with the law entail, paragraph 6, which is proposed, the attraction to responsibility. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u15	Thank you. Thank you, thank you for understanding. This confirms that everyone speaks the national language. And I want to emphasize how in any Parliament of a civilized state, all national MPs speak in a national language. You just insulted the P.O. of the Shepherd. He believes that he is the Shepherd in this room, and the Head of the Supreme Council is responsible for organizing the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I will continue to insist on this position, colleagues. And once again, you're creating unnecessary conflicts when you're considering a law. Let's talk, let's talk. I try not to express my political position, not to offend anyone, although I have a huge number of reasons, a huge number of reasons to offend you, but I don't do that, because I treat everyone with respect. So I'm going to put 39 votes. The authors insist that it be fully accepted. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:11:20]] For-26 The decision is not taken. 42nd, Branzovich. He insists. Cherry, please. Branzovich 42th, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u16	Part two of article 1 is proposed to be deleted because the source of such status as the Constitution of Ukraine, as set out in part four of this article. The proposed part of the second article 1 is not only unnecessary and essentially declarant but also sinning against the truth. Because Ukraine's self-determination, according to the Preamble of the Constitution, is not only the self-determination of Ukrainian citizens of Ukrainian ethnic origin, but also the self-determination of all Ukrainian people, citizens of all nationalities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u17	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u18	This amendment is proposed to be rejected because the source of special status is not the Constitution, as noted in the amendment, but the historical processes of the development of Ukrainian society. The Constitution merely defines this status and formalizes it in appropriate articles and standards. That's why this amendment was rejected, it was rejected by the committee. I want to tell Mr. Germank right away that there is no reference or amendment to the Criminal Code of Ukraine that would criminalize the violation of this law. The law does not impose any criminal responsibility. Please stop any speculation and lies about spreading standards that are not in this law and not invent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u19	So I'm going to vote 42. The committee turned her down. Colleagues who support this amendment, please vote. [[16:13:16]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 43rd. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u20	I have here a respectable reporter, see part two of article 1, on the first reading it was written: "The status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language cannot be a basis for denying the language rights and needs of persons belonging to national minorities." I can't find this article in a comparative table right now. But if it's kept, I'm asking you to complete it, and this is my amendment: "and the needs of those who belong to the indigenous peoples and national minorities." Please, Mr. Reporter, how are we going to be here?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u21	Thank you. This paragraph was deleted at the time of the vote in the first reading, then yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u22	Thank you. So, obviously, you don't insist on voting? We sorted out the first time we read. 44 requisitions. Cherry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention once again to the wording that was left on the second reading: "The status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language due to the national self-definition of the Ukrainian nation." Mikola Leonidovich, I know very much the love of your committee for such vague formulations, but what is the "national self-determination of the Ukrainian nation"? It's actually an evaluation judgement. And I fully support my colleagues here, that we have to send them to the Constitution, to the law of direct action that must be based on the status of the Ukrainian language, because the assessment of judgements is contrary to the technique of standard-setting design, the main principle of which is clarity and legal determination. Please put this amendment to the vote. If it doesn't pass, in the final vote, I think it's very important to go back to the subject again, because I think it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u24	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u25	Mrs. Cervakova, I would like to remind you that the law has not only been worked by members of our committee and a working group, where a whole range of professors, including constitutionalists (Professor Vasilenko), have started working on it as a professor of the Headate. And that's what scientists insisted on, and they were against removing part two, because it sets out the basic principle of the source of the national status of the Ukrainian language, which is necessary to show that this is not a formal status, but the result of the historical processes of the evolution of Ukrainian society. And scientists insisted on that kind of formulation. Thus, the committee recommended that this amendment be rejected by a colleague named Eutuska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u26	Thank you. Colleagues, this is an important question. I'll give one of the developers a word, one minute, to Deputy Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenko, who is taking part in the Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u27	Thank you, Mr. Head. And this is a very important place in the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! This is a very important place in the law, because you and I have already approved the preamble and in the preamble we directly refer to the Declaration of State Sovereignty since July 1990, this is a specific legislative act, and the Act of State Independence on August 24. These are specific legal acts that are the source of the self-determination of the Ukrainian people. And from here on out, the state status of the Ukrainian language. And we also mentioned the Constitution in the preamble. So when there was a discussion on this subject, in view of that, they decided to leave the Ukrainian people's national self-determination behind, because the preamble referred to two specific acts that were founding for Ukraine. I mean, it's really important, Ola. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u28	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. I'm voting on Amendment 44. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. The committee turned her down. [[16:17:30.]] For-30 The decision is not made. 45th. Germany insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! You can see now that a platform of languages in Ukraine is being plundered at all. But I want to say my amendment, I want to say my amendment, which provides for the bill in question, that the state status of the Ukrainian language is an integral part of the constitutional system of the unitary state. There's a conclusion from the management's expert department that this is unacceptable. Unitarity applies to areas of governance. What is the reason why the issue of the tongue is here? I'll tell you that by applying this norm, we're just like flying over the nest of zosulas. That's what this is about. It's us making fun of the Ukrainian language, we carry it everywhere. The language goes to plug it in and plug it in, hang it on the hook so it's the only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u31	The only language in Ukraine. This is unacceptable, it discredits other languages, more than a hundred of them, including those protected by the Constitution by article 10 — Russian and other languages of the national minority. That's what this is about. Therefore, we suggest that this be translated into a mildly correct regulation of the understanding of Ukrainian as a national language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u32	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u33	So what colleagues from Germany and Shufrich are offering. In fact, it is about disfellowshipping part three from the article. But the fact that State language is part of the constitutional system, it's not what we came up with, is the conclusion of the Constitutional Court in its decision in 99th year. To deny this part of the third is actually to deny the Constitutional Court's decision, which is impossible because Ukraine is a unitary state, and we cannot deny this unitaryness, because we are against the federalization of Ukraine and we will never allow the federalization of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u34	Thank you for your clarification. Please vote on the 45th amendment. [[16:20:14]] For-21 The correction is being rejected. The following 46 amendments, as well as Vasil Nimchenko. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, as far as Article 46, Amendment 46 is concerned, I would like to place your attention again on this bill as drafted. This was not written by lawyers, not by experts, but by popularists. Read it. The status of the Ukrainian language as the only national language is defined exclusively by the Constitution of Ukraine. What it will be defined if the Constitution says that the national language is Ukrainian. All of it. This is the first time. And secondly, Ukraine's only national language. What is the meaning of the only national language? Do we have a second national language? It's a question of Ukrainian. Why are these overloads of the article’s contents? This is unacceptable in lawmaking. You will be told this by a loving lawyer practicing. And that's why we're proposing, please listen to what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u36	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u37	Thank you. In fact, this amendment refers to the failure to minimize the so - called regional languages. We discussed this during the first reading, and on the first reading, such a rule was excluded, so it is not discussed in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u38	Thank you. And I'd like to make 46 adjustments. [[16:22:05]] For the 18th. Thank you. 18 for, the amendment is rejected. The next one is the same. Amendment 47. National deputy of Germany, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u39	Regarding repairs 47. Dear colleagues, what is proposed? What is proposed? When we talk about the introduction of the national, national language, which is Ukrainian, and that is no objection to us, first of all, I would like to exclude what is mentioned in article 1 of part five. See where this article leads us. Read part of the fifth. Read part of the fifth part. Here I'm told there's no part and sixth, there's no part. Look, it's in the editor's office. But we do not bind him with responsibility, with delicacies, this is unacceptable, such a system. Therefore, we ask that part of the fifth part of article 1 be deleted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u40	Please comment on article 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u41	For more information, see The amendment was rejected because, according to the Constitution, language is regulated exclusively by law. Now I want to say that the next Amendment 48, I was the author of it, and it applied to part five. We've discussed this with the Supreme Council's legal office, and at the end of our vote, you have the conclusions of the judiciary, and we're going to propose that we take into account the formulation proposed by the Supreme Council's legal administration. So I take off my next amendment and I respond to a colleague's previous amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u42	Thank you. I'd like to make 47 adjustments. [[16:24:15]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. Mr. Knieżicky 48's next amendment. Don't insist. You agree with the committee's decision. Next 50 revisions to Denisenko, National MP. National MP Denisenko doesn't insist either. Kudlainka, please, Mr. Kudlainka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u43	Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! During the millennium of history, one of the basic values of the Ukrainians was the desire for freedom. That is what moved our people to fight for independence, to fight against military, cultural, and information aggression. Today, under conditions of aggression by Russia, Ukraine continues to stand up for its own freedom and integrity. The proposal made by the people's representative, Denisenko, refers to the level of legal regulation of the procedure for the use of the national language in our country. Part five of article 1 of the bill contains both the imperative norm and the prohibition norm on the same issue: the level of legal regulation of the procedure for the application of the national language. The rule of prohibition should then be ruled out as such that it does not have its own legal burden. In this context, the proposal is supported in part five of article 1 of the bill, the words "and cannot be subject to regulation" of the subordinate acts of public authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the authorities of local self-government -- to exclude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u44	Thank you. Please explain Mr. Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u45	Thank you. Because, as I said before, the amendments of colleagues of Germany, Shufrich, and my amendment, and the amendment of colleague Ribczynski, and the amendment of colleague Denisenko applied to the formulation of part five of article 1. We consulted on what formulations to use and agreed to the recommendations of the expert management that are given to you along with this law and which will be put to the vote at the end when we vote in favour of the entire law. As a result, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u46	Thank you. And I'd like to make 50 adjustments. Be my guest, colleagues. [[16:26:37]] For-25 The correction is being rejected. 51st Amendment, Germano People's Deputy, 51st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u47	51 revisions. Dear colleagues, I have a comparative table on the function and application of the Ukrainian language, not the order of application. Let's move on. The question is, what's the other story, and I don't know where it came from. But I have a part of the sixth, as they say, indicating that the attempt to introduce multimanence at the official level. (Statute to others, Ukrainian.) In spite of the Constitution, it follows itself. are identical actions aimed at a violent change or overthrow of the constitutional system. That's what I got. In others, I don't see the bill. But I can't rule out this norm, it's completely abnormal, and what's behind it is possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u48	Please finish planning. Finish? 15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u49	Yeah. I'd like the drafters to make an explanation after all. I'm afraid it's part six's dualism. of the sixth part, which has two contents, two.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u50	Thank you. Please explain Amendment 51.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u51	Thank you. Just a colleague of Germany was talking about something else, he wasn't talking about the 51 amendments he was making. In this amendment, he suggests that basic positions of the status of the Ukrainian language be defined as dictionaries. Why the committee rejected the amendment. Since dictionaries and handbooks are not legal elements, it is not possible to establish in the law that Ukrainian language standards are set in dictionaries, obviously we cannot. Moreover, a German colleague does not specify which dictionaries to use in this case. And if one dictionary contradicts another, and we often have what we need to refer to. That's what a colleague of Germany wrote, that's not what he was talking about. And what he was saying was that I had already made it clear that no law was amending the Criminal Code, so no criminal persecution for his failure to do so was presuppose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u52	I'd like to make 51 adjustments. [[16:29:30]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The correction is being rejected. Now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. German. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u53	I want to ask the reporter. So is there a norm that predicts the responsibility of the same betrayal of the Fatherland or not? Is it or is it not?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u54	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, during. I thought you, you had an update. Dear colleagues, we can't go into the debate with the reporter right now, but we have to move on to the amendments. 52. Amendment of the Boyka People's Deputy. Will one of his colleagues present himself? No, it's not. Oh, Mrs. Olena, please excuse me, for God's sake. Mrs. Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, my turn 52. I propose the fifth part of article 1, which we have already discussed, in the following edition: "The procedure for ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language is defined solely by this law and cannot be subject to the regulation of subordinate acts by public authorities, the authorities of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea or the authorities of local self-government." Dear colleagues, I have, of course, heard a comment by Nikola Leonidovich, thank you very much. However, I believe that this right is correct and corresponds to the substance, content and title of the Act "On Ensuring the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language." Once again, if you please, Mikola Leonidovich, is this position taken into account in the final edition, or will it be counted? Still, I'd like to ask for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u56	Please comment, Mr. Knieżicky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u57	First of all, I want to briefly tell Mr. German that the answer to your question will be in the next amendment, you'll hear it at 53rd. Keep an eye on the amendments, colleagues, if a colleague raises a question. As for the issue of Colleague Boyko, this amendment was rejected, since this law regulates not the order in which the Ukrainian language works as a national language, but simply the order in which the language works. Ensuring this order is indeed the task of this law. But talking about any special order would be wrong. So that's why we rejected that standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u58	Thank you. Please identify yourself, colleagues, by the 52th Amendment of our distinguished colleague. Please. [[16:32:07]] For-35 The correction is being rejected. Next 53rd, Brenzowich. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u59	Part six of article 1 is proposed to be deleted because multilingualism does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine (see part one of article 10 and article 11 of the Constitution of Ukraine). Because the Constitution is not an official language at all, it is not official or multilingual, at least if we respect the Constitution of Ukraine. Moreover, criminalizing not even actions but merely discussing such an important topic as the status of language is an attack on such fundamental human rights and freedoms as freedom of thought and expression. Therefore, leaving the law of such a passage is also contrary to the principles of the rule of law, the state of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u60	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u61	First, this amendment was rejected because it's not about any multilingualism, it's about official multilingualism. That is, when certain authorities or officials introduce additional official languages other than Ukrainian languages illegally. According to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as I have already said, in 99th year, the official language in Ukraine can only be one, and it is part of the constitutional system. Obviously, any action in the opposite direction is against the constitutional system, because it comes out of that decision. That is why this standard refers to the State’s view of the destruction of the official status of the State’s language as a change or a collapse of the constitutional system. But it should be noted that this is not about establishing criminal responsibility. Any change in criminal liability can only be made by changes to the Criminal Code. Neither this article nor any other paragraph of this law amends the Criminal Code. The logic of the norm is very simple: The State has a negative attitude toward the introduction of official bilinguality, considers it potentially dangerous, and points out this in the Law on Speech. This allows attention to be drawn to this, but it is clear that this does not introduce any criminal responsibility. What I want to remind you is that it's the implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u62	One minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u63	It was the official ambiguity, that is, the adoption of laws on the granting of official state status to other languages, contrary to the Constitution, which we saw a few years ago when each village declared some other language official in the territory of the village. In order not to allow this to happen in the future, we point to this in the law. I would just like to point out that we would like to propose to vote on this article in accordance with the recommendations of the Supreme Council's legal administration, which are given to you. Please get to know them, there will be some adjustments to them, and we will finally propose to vote in this particular edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u64	Thank you. And I would like to make up my mind for 53 articles. [[16:35:00]] For-19 The amendment is not accepted. And the next one is 54th. Will you present your colleagues from Fatherland? Let's move on. Next up, Chubarov, 55th Amendment. He doesn't insist either. Thank you. Germany, 57. Please, Your Honor, Mr. Vasil. No, 57th. 56th is Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u65	I'd like to say one more time and let the reporter know. Mr. Reporter, Mr. Mikolo, I'll speak to you in public. Look at the texture you're using: "punished according to the law." What's that? What law did you see? What law did you see establishing responsibility for betraying the Fatherland, namely for betraying the Fatherland? Are you making fun of the people or what are you doing? What's behind this? Extermination and obliteration of the code of other languages, Russian, and so forth? What are we talking about? So say it. You don't defend the Ukrainian language, you don't need protection. You do something else, you root out other languages, so that the country doesn't become, it wasn't multinational to rule under conditions of identity like you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u66	30 seconds to complete. Oh, that's it, you're done. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u67	I would still ask my colleagues to speak on the subjects of the rights they have given, not the free flight of their own thoughts. Because in fact, this article suggests that a German colleague essentially punish attempts to hinder the free development of Russian. I want to say that since this law does not regulate the issue of Russian as well as other languages of national minorities, and it deals with national language, i.e. Ukrainian language, article 7 of this law regulates other issues, and this right is aimed only at excluding part of this part of the bill in general, so it was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u68	Thank you. And please vote in favour of this amendment, please identify yourself, colleagues. And I join the committee head's request that we now discuss the amendments, and I ask you to present the amendments, not to evaluate the political developments in Ukraine. [[16:37:26]] Z-11. Please, 11 in favour, the amendment is rejected. The next amendment is 60. Please, Andrew Illenko. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u69	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, according to our amendment to this article, it is designed not to be dead so that it has real mechanisms of application. And so we propose to add to the end, which should be the corresponding legal responsibility for similar attempts, namely attempts to introduce an official, I stress, official multilingualism against the Constitution of Ukraine and the established constitutional procedure and actions that provoke the country's linguistic division, interethnic opposition and hostility, are aimed at a violent change and overthrow of the constitutional system. And we're proposing, in fact, that there should be legal responsibility for such attempts, if they really have a place, I emphasize, if that corresponds to the wording in the article. And the wording in the article says that there should be an understanding of the responsibility of the individual for such attempts and actions. So our proposal is to make an appropriate correction so that this standard works.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u70	Please explain to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u71	Mr. Andrey, in fact, the members of the committee were in agreement with you, but this amendment was rejected, because the committee's decision to say the words you proposed "punished according to the law" were changed to a more legally faithful one, from our point of view, to quote, "and is a basis for drawing to the legal responsibility established by law." So it's essentially taken into account, but it's just in a different form, and in that form, it's been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u72	Thank you. And next. Oh, we're voting for this amendment right now. Excuse me, Mr. Andrew and your colleagues. Amendment 60, please identify yourself. [[16:39:36]] For-35 The amendment is not accepted. Next amendment 68, Walking. Oh, that's great. Please, Mr. Ribczynski, now, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Rybczynski's microphone. He's like you remember. Now, I've already announced Mr. Ribczynski because he's made all his amendments except one. Please, Mr. Ribczynski, later. Dear colleagues, give the floor to Mr. Ribchinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u73	Thank you so much for your word. Part eight of article 1 of the bill is to be printed in the following edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u74	No, we're in the '60s right now. What's your correction? 68th? We haven't reached her yet, Mr. Ribczynski. I'll give you my word when we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u75	You said 68th, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u76	No, no, I said 62, there's more. It's 62 o'clock, Eutusek. It's considered editorially. We were here, Mr. Ribczynski, we were at the 60th Illenka Amendment. Let's move on. 62nd, please, Eutuszek. It was considered editorially. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u77	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. I want to thank you immediately, Mr. Head, and to the entire committee, because most of my amendments that have been made are taken into account, but there are some amendments that have been taken into account editorially. I would now like to draw attention to part of the seventh article, which I have proposed in this paper: "The attempts to introduce official bilinguality or multilingualism in Ukraine, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the constitutional procedure established, are actions that provoke language division of the country, interethnic opposition and hostility and are aimed at a violent change or the overthrow of the constitutional system." You have considered this amendment editorially, please explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u78	Please explain 62 amendments, which were taken into account in an editorial way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u79	Thank you, Sir, for your work, for your cooperation, and for your position. The amendment was, indeed, taken into account editorially by the approved committee on editing part six. And there the committee was left with multilingualism, which is the kind of language proposed by the amendment, ambiguity. So bilinguality is a variety of multilingualism, and it also reveals what the legislator means by that term, so it's dealt with editorially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u80	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. Mr. Eutuszek, if we are now. We don't put it to a vote, you just asked for an explanation, and the amendment stays with the committee. 63rd, I was walking. Don't insist. 64th, Romanowski. Don't insist. 65th, Germany. Please turn on Sverka's microphone, the national MP. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u81	Thank you very much. It was the first time I got the word. So I would like to thank the committee and personally Mr. Mikola Knieżicki very much for the quality of the work on this bill. But there is a question here regarding part of the seventh article. I have a question for you. Is there any clear definition of what constitutes public humiliation and contempt of the Ukrainian language? As for the language of definition, is there not, and how can this be decided? Because there's responsibility, someone has to be discreet about determining whether it's humiliation or not. I mean, please explain, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u82	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u83	As I said before, in line with the decision of the 99th Constitutional Court, the State language is actually likened to State symbols, and we have punishment for defamation of state symbols. This law, as I have already said, does not provide for any criminal punishment. But if there are facts of language humiliation, the person who has observed such a fact and is indignant is addressing the Authorized One, the Authorized One makes up an appropriate act and refers to the Court, and the Court. The court will decide whether or not it is responsible for the violation of this law, for which it can only be administrative, as I have already said, rather than criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u84	Thank you. I take it there's no need to vote. It was just an exchange of thoughts on correction. Next, please, 65 revisions. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u85	I propose in the bill that you reject administrative and criminal, repressive norms. Stop scaring people. See what you can find in this article. Who are you afraid of? You're scaring your people. If these are foreign - language, not Ukrainian - language, they are more than 40 percent. What are you doing? So we ask you to rule that out at all, to rule out as rudimentary rules for the language law. Find something else in the world, and never refer to anything like that in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia -- there's no such thing, there's democracy and free will, and there's the realization of freedom of thought. That's it. You don't come up with a bike, you can't do that, and we'll go back to that, and you'll be witnesses as you run.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u86	Please comment on the 65th Amendment of the People's Deputy of Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u87	The amendment is rejected because the intentional distortion of the Ukrainian language in official State documents discredits the very idea of preserving the national language. Given the national status of the Ukrainian language, the issue of its proper application, compliance with the standards established by the Commission on standardisation issues, is an important element in the preservation of the constitutional system, as the Constitutional Court concludes. And to you, my colleague, I want to say that the Ukrainian people are afraid of you, they're scared long ago because they don't want to go in the past, they don't want to go into the empire, so we're going to back up, we're going to vote on this law. And I don't understand why you're so hot defending your right to slander Ukrainian language. I don't think it's worthy of the National Deputy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u88	Thank you. Please, colleagues, vote for the 65th amendment. Once again, I ask you to minimize the policy of discussing amendments, to go in fact, only to win the law. My colleagues, please, I asked you to minimize the exchange of kindness and to follow the adjustments. I won't give you my word. [[16:46:24]] For-19 The correction is being rejected. Next, Amendment 70. 68 revisions. 67th, Eutusek. Don't insist. 68th. Rybczynski, please. We're finally there. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now! I've already given my word. Now! I gave my word to Ribczynski now, and we've reached his original 68 revisions. Then you have your word. Please, 68 revisions. Ribczynski. Then you, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u89	Thank you for giving me your word. The amendment refers to the facts of distortion and abuse of the Ukrainian language and it reads as follows: "Particularly, article 1 of the bill reads as follows: Obstacles and restrictions on the use of the Ukrainian language, deliberate distortion of the Ukrainian language, result in the responsibility established by law." It's written that reads editorially. Mr. Mikolo, I'm just curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u90	Thank you. Please comment on the 68th amendment of the head of the House Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u91	Mr. Eugene, the amendment is taken into account almost literally. The original phrase “Creating Obstacles and Restrictions on the Use of Ukrainian” in the article was taken away precisely because there was an overly wide range of possible interpretations of this phrase. The opposition to creating such obstacles is actually all about this law, and we decided to separate something from it for nothing. But in the Committee's second reading, that's exactly what the committee said, and that's Mr. Sverke's answer, too, so that you can hear exactly what should be considered as an "intentional distortion of Ukrainian language" in official documents and texts. It suggests "intentional application with violation of the requirements of Ukrainian spelling and the standards of national language". I mean, if you go for help and the clerk gives you help so you don't understand it, you have the right to contact the Commissioner, and he's going to go to court and punish this officer administratively. In doing so, as always, we must prove our intention in court. If this is a simple mistake, no one will be punished, no need to worry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u92	Thank you. I'd like to make a statement. We don't vote for your amendment, Mr. Ribczynski, we don't vote. You've been exchanging your thoughts. I'll give you my word on your next amendment, okay, one more time. Please, let's go. Microphone, please, Mr. Dudenkov. And you can tell me what kind of correction you're insisting on. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u93	Thank you. I'd like to put Etushka for confirmation. And taking advantage of the opportunity given in this part of the article, part eight of article 1. I have a question, first, for the chairman. I want to draw your attention to the falsification of the editing of part eight of article 1. Take a look at the draft of the bill, adopted in the first reading, at the proposals of the MPs who made their proposals to this section, and the extreme right column. Therefore, no proposal, first of all, is mentioned in the first reading as being responsible for violating the requirements of Ukrainian spelling, deliberately distorting Ukrainian language in official documents and texts, such as intentional application in violation of Ukrainian spelling requirements. This post of Ukrainian spelling is already your superior service. How do I get to the chairman, I mean, the committee, how did this association get into?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u94	Finish up, please. But the chairman of the session is me, and the chairman of the committee is the reporter for this bill. Who are you talking to, please specify. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u95	I'm sorry to have to ask you a question, because in the far right column, you've completed this statement, which is neither in the first reading nor in any proposal. I checked the tables myself. So there's no mention of Ukrainian spelling. On what basis did you include this in the extreme right column? That's why I'm betting on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u96	Now, just a minute. This is an amendment by the national deputy Eutuska, who was considered editorially, 67 amendments. 67 amendment is an amendment by the national deputy Eutushka, which has been taken into account editorially. Please give me 10 more seconds of Debenkov. What kind of correction are you talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u97	I took the floor to confirm Evtushka's amendment, 67th, but it's the only way I can get a reporter. And I'm telling him that there's a forgery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u98	Yes, of course. We heard you. So you don't insist on putting on confirmation? You insist. If you insist now, I'll give you a word, a minute, to the author of the Evtushka amendment, which will explain why you're even killing his amendment, which is accepted by the committee. And after that minute, the head of the committee you were addressing. No, that's how he'll comment, but you're killing the Evtushka amendment. What's the point of this? Please, Mr. Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u99	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Eutushka, Fatherland. Well, it's a strange position, of course, of the People's Deputies. Give me an amendment and no matter what it is, because I have to speak, but put it to a vote, because it's also counted by the committee. The essence of the amendment, well, is that the Constitution clearly defines the symbols of the state, and the language is not a constitutional symbol of the state. It is, let's say, a symbol. We understand that speech is basically a language. And that's why we think so. Therefore, we prescribe that public humiliation or contempt of the Ukrainian language is an unlawful act and is punished according to the law. That's the whole point of this. Why put her to the vote I don't even understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u100	Thank you. Please now comment to the committee head on the questions asked by the People's Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u101	Madam President, I thank you for the democratic conduct of the meeting, but I would like to say to Mr. Dudenkov that, under the Rules, rejected amendments may only be requested to review the initiators of their introduction, article 120, and I quote you: "At the insistence of the initiator of the introduction of the right of the legislative initiative, the proposals rejected by the committee may be discussed, the rights relating to these articles." So it's... it's...
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u102	Did you get it fixed?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u103	It's editorial. It's editorial. With regard to the question, the right of the Committee provided for in the Rules to formulate and adopt amendments in an editorial manner. Because the law clearly states that the committee prepares the text on the basis of amendments. On the basis of the amendments, the committee took them into account in an editorial manner, in accordance with the rules in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u104	Thank you. Colleagues, we're talking about revisions right now. If anyone has a question about committee work, the work of all committees is open. Mr. Dudenkov, come to the committee meeting tomorrow and discuss the committee's work there, please. 67 amendments, do you insist on voting anyway? Colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment now, because the committee has supported it editorially, this amendment to Eutuska. Please make up your mind. I am conducting meetings, not democratically, but under the Rules, and the Ukrainian people's deputies have the right, unfortunately, to make amendments under the Rules. [[16:54:18]] For-56 The correction is being rejected. Next Ribczynski, 68th. He's already bugged her. - Constandavich. Don't insist. Germany, '70s. 70 is all that's left. 69th, Konstankovic. Please, the Bond word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u105	I would also like to quote Mr. Knieżicki, part three of Rule 20, which reads: "Under the insistence of the people's deputies, a discussion may be held on the proposal's main committee." It's about what you're giving me here, like, study the game. But once again, the committee is compiling proposals, it's looking at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I'm also a member of the committee, fortunately, not yours, a little more qualified, a little bit more economical. But he's considering the proposals of the deputies, on the basis of the suggestions taken into account, he's forming a table for the second reading. I'm saying once again, part eight of Article 1, according to which you take responsibility for violating the rules of Ukrainian spelling, is not simple things, and it's not editorial stuff. You are now exceeding your authority as a committee. And in the far right column, you include a responsibility that was not presented in the first reading and that was not offered. You gave us the materials, we looked at them. What a surprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u106	Thank you. Thank you. I just want to confirm here that, according to the Rules, every national MP has the right to submit confirmation of the amendment that the committee has taken into account. And that's why we often have problems with the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u107	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u108	Please comment now. Mr. Dudenkov, don't argue with the reporter, I'm asking you very much. You. We hear your question. Please give the committee head an answer to your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u109	Mr. Dudenkov, in order to speak essentially. For the voters of the Opposition Block, I want to explain exactly what amendment to the confirmation you have made and what you have achieved by voting, by cancelling the amendment to Eutuska. Her colleague’s amendment suggested that the committee take this into account. The committee's amendment was proposed. What? Yes, the amendment to the committee suggested that it should be done, that it should change "this is the legal consequences provided for by law." You returned it, you returned it to actual punishment according to the law. So you went back to a form that was much tougher with respect to the implementation of this law than the committee suggested. Thank you from both your constituents and ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u110	Thank you. As I understand it, Mr. Dudenkov wanted to speak and did not insist on a vote of 69 amendments? Are you insisting? Colleagues, so I'm putting the vote to confirm the 69th amendment. This is an amendment by our colleague, Mrs. Konstanovic, who was taken into account by the committee. Please identify and support her. [[16:57:47]] For-67 Thus, the amendment remains. It was considered editorially. As we understand it, Mr. Dudenkov insisted on full acceptance of it, it remains editorially taken into account. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u111	Thank you. So I would like to remind you that, in our tradition, the committee head will propose to return to those amendments that balance the law. It's the '70s. He insists, doesn't he? He insists. All right, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u112	First of all, I'd like to say to the reporter. Keep your dust and wits when you respond to a request from a national MP. And what I'm saying is that wit is not yet a mind. It's for you to even know that you're a contractor. And the orderr is the national MPs. So please answer with no sense of humor, we have nothing to tire of. It's not humor. And that's why I want to rule out all the use of the word "punishment." It smells like naphthalene and the thought of the '30s. What are you doing? Therefore, we ask that we exclude and record that no narrowing of the scope of the use of the national language is allowed. That'll be legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u113	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u114	Thank you, colleague of Germany. I promise you not to display wit and humor, but mere wit and humor. Thank you. Now, here's to the repair. In fact, your amendment was intended, in the 1970s, to exclude the text of the law of part nine of article 1. The amendment suggests replacing it with a completely different one that does not apply to the subject matter of regulation. Secondly, the law establishes a special legal regime for the use of national language, not restrictions on the application of national language. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u115	I'm voting on Amendment 70. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[17:00:13]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. 71st. Don't insist. 72nd. Denisenko. Nemirowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u116	Dear colleagues, in support of the committee’s decision regarding amendment 72, it is considered reactively. Thank you. But looking at the number of audiences in the room, I would like to quote Ukrainian author Lena Kostenko: "The only one who doesn't get tired is time. And we're alive, we have to hurry." Consolidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u117	Thank you. 74th. 73rd. Yes, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u118	Thank you. Now, dear fellows, we can see 73 on the right, double standards. Here, the honourable reporter says that the committee is editorially taking into account some of the provisions of the laws. And here we see the 73rd is really the committee's revision. As for part eight of article 1, where you take responsibility for violating Ukrainian spelling, it is already your abuse of your official duties. I think that's the very fact that's going to be the responsibility. As for the substance of the amendment, I would like to say that this proposal to the committee is unnecessary, since the Ukrainian language as a language of communication, the mandatory use of it in all spheres of social life, particularly in the work of local governments and public authorities, is provided for in article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to put it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u119	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u120	Thank you. So the colleagues in the Opposition Block first introduced a punishment that we made much softer, actually canceled because of their approval rights. It's for you to understand, when someone says it's a repressive law, that's not what we democratic politicians did, and it's not what we're proposing to do now. Because this right here is about Ukrainian language being the language of interethnic communication in Ukraine. But a colleague from the Opposition Block against peaceful interethnic communication in Ukraine. So I suggest you put this right here for confirmation. And against upholding the revealed legal status of the Ukrainian language, as stated by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in 1999. Apparently, these are essentially the chauvinistic rights offered by colleagues from the Opposition Block, called to divide our society, to sow discord among Ukrainians living in Ukraine. So I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u121	Colleagues, one of the key lines. I'll put her in for confirmation. And whoever supports the committee's position, please vote in favour. I'm betting on confirmation of amendment 73, which the committee will support. This is the committee's amendment. And please support her. Vote. [[17:03:29]] For-73 The decision is not taken. 74th, Germany. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to read it so that you can understand what is going on. That this law, which was passed in plenary, regulates the functioning of the use of Ukrainian as a national language in all spheres of social life throughout Ukraine, that is, in addition to personal isolated housing, and not in general communal housing. That's the first one. And the second. On what basis is this legal definition? Who's to say what's the legal definition of "in all spheres of social life"? Look at that 99th-year decision where the Constitutional Court told you it's already naphthaline, it's long forgotten what "social all spheres" are. No one can determine this because there is an inexhaustible list of spheres in today’s world. Therefore, legal uncertainty will lead to a nuisance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u123	30 seconds. Everything? Yeah, we're good.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u124	Leads to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u125	Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u126	Please. And it leads to a lack of legal certainty to narrow down the rights of citizens to the realization of their natural right to mother tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u127	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u128	Comrade Germanko, what are you talking about, what's the readjustment? Can you tell me the number? Huh? Because the amendment that we're discussing right now is about something else. This is the third time you've spoken about something that doesn't apply to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u129	I read you the name of article 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u130	What's the number for? Comrade Germany, we are discussing 74 revisions. In it you suggest, "Chapter I of Article 2 put it in the paper: Ukraine's legislation on languages (dot)." Now you're talking about something else. You applied for 76 revisions, we'll talk about it. Colleagues, keep an eye on the regulations. I urge you to work professionally and not waste your time reading the laws you're discussing. As for this amendment, it was rejected, since the law does not define the list of language laws. This bill on the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national and given article should define its scope. As far as you're concerned, I'm going to answer it with one piece of paper from my colleague, Lesjuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u131	I'm betting on the 74th vote. Who supports the data. 74, yes. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:06:43]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. And, colleagues, I want to inform you. During the discussion of rights, the author of the amendment and the head of the committee refer to each other, this cannot be a basis for comment. This is the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's just a call to each other, and it doesn't involve giving a line every time. So 75th. Don't insist. 76th. He insists. He spoke after '74. 76th, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u132	We're all up for it. What is needed in this law is to provide for the possibility of applying, as in the multinational, national Ukraine, as the Ukrainian nation, as provided for in article 11, and to record that it is unacceptable to go out of one language alone and to give the decryption concerning national minorities, as regards Russian and other languages, including indigenous peoples. That's what this is about. And to write about language or language, we need to clarify and say that we have the work and implementation of articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution, which are not mentioned in this law at all. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u133	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u134	This amendment by a German colleague and a Shufrich colleague was rejected. In fact, it is intended to exclude from the text of the law of article 2 in its entirety. And instead of the "declared spheres of application of the Law on State Language," write in the law paragraphs on minority language. For these reasons, the amendment was rejected. The need to preserve the article on the scope of the law and the inability to regulate the Law on State Language on the application of minority languages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u135	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment 76, it's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[17:09:00]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. 77th. Don't insist. 78th. 75th. Lesjuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u136	Mr. Mikolo, on the committee, if I recall, my 75th edition was accepted, what you're looking at right now. I don't understand why it was written down, because the committee voted for it. You've forgotten, haven't you? So the point of the amendment is what? Look at the 1st article that says "public language in all." I just want all but one article to be written "Ukrainian language" instead of "State language," not to be out of any of the inferiority complexes. I have something else to explain. We don't need to talk every time about what's called the law: the function of Ukrainian as a national language. And in article 1, we said that the only national language is what? - Ukrainian. And then we call it Ukrainian, Ukrainian and Ukrainian everywhere. We have to promote it, not the word "state." The more I apologize, the more you told me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u137	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u138	Once again, it was accepted, why did it happen? I'm in favour of Ukrainianization just as much as you are, I just want us to make the most of this law that we're looking at right now, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u139	Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u140	Mr. Jaroslav, your right was indeed rejected on the committee because the law is called "Functioning Ukrainian as a State Language." If we accepted this amendment, we should write "the status of the Ukrainian language as the only Ukrainian language." The Ukrainian language is more widely used than just as a national language, when the mother sings to the child in colossal Ukrainian, it is also used in the Ukrainian language. When a young man is reported to be a beloved in Ukrainian, it is also a use of the Ukrainian language. And we don't regulate it, we only regulate the use of Ukrainian as a national language. This is the subject of regulation of the law, and that's why your amendment, with great respect to you, was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u141	Thank you. Colleagues, you members of the committee, there's no replication, there's your speech, there's a speech by the committee head and then there's a vote. I'm putting 75 people's deputies to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I think you'll be able to solve this problem at the committee level before the bill is completed. [[B in m in s a l in]] About number 75. I'm now voting on number 75. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[17:12:26]] For-59 The decision is not taken. 78th, not necessarily. 79th. [[B in m in s a l in]] 77th, Branzovich. Branzovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u142	Part two of article 2 is proposed to be supplemented by the words "and also in the areas of free development of the use and protection of Russian and other languages of national minorities" (part two of article 10 of the Constitution). Because part of the first article is a literal creation, quoting part of article 10 of the Constitution, which affirms the purpose of implementing this law is just that constitutional provision. Hence, according to the logic of the second part of the article, a second part of article 10 of the Constitution should be quoted as refusing to regulate the use of languages of national minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u144	I mean, everywhere in the law, to the last question, everywhere in the law, where the language is spoken, it's called Ukrainian. When we talk about responsibilities and state status, there it is called national and it is interpreted when it is national. That's why all the concepts here are absolutely correct. With regard to the law regarding the amendment of colleague Branzowicz, part of the second one deals only with the issue of private communication and the language of religious rituals. These are two guarantees from article 2 of the UN General Assembly Declaration of 92 on minority rights. We have preserved and deleted these guarantees to define the law. But there is not a word in the UN Declaration about the areas of free development and use, excuse me, of Russian and of other languages referred to in the amendment. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Rather, it is a matter of substance. The distinction between the scope of the law and the application of other languages is regulated in part three of article 2, which is added by regulation 86, and we will talk about it when the turn comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u145	Do you insist on voting? I bet on the vote of Amendment 77. It's rejected by the committee. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[17:14:39]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. 79th. Don't insist. 78th Amendment, Chervakova. This is the Home Rule. That's what Good Home does.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u146	I'd like to make it clear right in the head of the committee that's meant to be, because this amendment, really, is written here that it's partially accounted for. It proposes that part two of article 2 clarify: "the sphere of private communication is all that does not apply to public work, public speaking and public sector services." Here the subject of the legislative initiative is used by the so - called definition because of the denial that the language of logic is a false statement and is also explicitly prohibited by the technique of standard - making design. I see that the committee says that you've taken this into account in part, but in the final edition, it's proposed for the second reading. I don't see how you've taken that into account, because I think that's the exact wording. Mikolo Leonidovich, could you explain what you meant when you wrote that the amendment was partially taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u147	Mrs. Olu, can you explain whether you're asking her to confirm it or what your request is? Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u148	Comrade Červakov, the essence of the amendment: To define the limits of the law to restrict private communication, which is not regulated by anything else. Thus, the amendment was taken into account editorially in that part of the first clarification, which regulates everything provided for by this law. Thus, anything that is not regulated by law may under certain circumstances be considered a private matter, and that is why the law does not contain any regulation of what is outside the scope of that law. We simply stressed that only what is said in the law is regulated and the other is not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u149	Thank you. So we think you've made your point, and I don't vote for confirmation. It's the '80s. Don't insist. 81st. Don't insist. 82nd. Don't insist. 83rd. He insists. Timish, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u150	Dear Chairman, Mr. Princely, thank you for taking this into account editorially, but that's not enough, believe me. I don't understand the fact that, let's say, writing things like the conduct of cultural and artistic actions of national minorities. They're always state-owned, these measures, believe me. I just don't understand how they're going to listen in Ukrainian to Romanian cradles in places where national minorities live compactly, in villages, primarily in Bukovina, in South Bessarabia, in Zakarpatta. You see, we don't have the right to view it that way. It was in principle for me to do all of this in parallel. The Law on the Languages of National Minorities, it had to be considered on a committee in parallel with the relevant law that you stand for today, and that's right, because I really support a lot of your intelligent things and very progressive things, and we have to do it. But believe me, what's going on in this room is happening, well, it's because we dropped this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u151	Please finish 30 seconds. Let Mr. Timmy finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u152	Because we did not consider earlier or in parallel on the committee and the Law on the Languages of National Minorities and Indigenous Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u153	Thank you. I ask the committee head to comment on the amendment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u154	Dear colleague Timish, first of all, I would like to thank you for your work, and that you are indeed organizing an effective dialogue between representatives of national minorities and the government of Ukraine, you are looking out for this issue. I would like to tell you that this amendment is edited in the new part of this article, which is added to the amendment of Committee 86. It states that "the application of Crimean Tatar language and other languages of indigenous peoples, national minorities in Ukraine in the relevant spheres of social life are defined by a separate law that regulates the implementation of the rights of indigenous peoples." So when we go to this revision, we're going to keep talking about it. We're just stressing that this is obviously the law that regulates only the use of Ukrainian, and the rest should be in this law. And the law stipulates that for six months such a law must be prepared and adopted by the Supreme Council. And we're going to do our best, even though it's not the work of our committee, but we're going to do our best to do this. I'll work with the Nemira Committee to protect all rights of national minorities as the author and this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u155	Thank you very much for explaining the amendment of the 83rd National MP, Timish. Dear colleague, do you insist on voting? Because it was edited. Mr. Timish, are you insisting? No, it's not. They exchanged their thoughts, and they found out where they were. The next amendment is 84. Svetlana Zlatchuk. No one will represent her? No, it's not. Let's move on. 85th. Please, Vasile Nimchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u156	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I want you to hear it. Nevertheless, what is the right definition set out in this norm, which states that the law does not extend to private communication or religious observances. What is "private communication"? Can you answer that? And the second. I'd like that. I'd like to suggest, by using the word "language" to get us out of the Hague recommendations, other international norms, from the conclusions that we've reached, including the Venice Commission, on what should be. We need to look at national language as official and side-by-side, as Europe says, and side-by-side languages of national, regional minorities. And the third formula. Inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u157	Please finish for a minute. Please complete Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u158	That is why the absence of legal regulation in the languages of national minorities and in the languages of other peoples and peoples, including indigenous peoples, in this law slanders, discriminates and violates the rights of articles provided for in article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the right of every citizen to exercise his or her natural right to his or her own language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u159	Thank you. I'm asking you to explain to the head of the 85th Amendment Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u160	A colleague of Germany touched on the subject of private communication. He actually commented on 77 amendments, which I stressed and answered, according to the UN convention, which means private communication. As for 85 revisions by a German colleague, he is here proposing article 2, chapter I of Part Two, in a different edition. This amendment was rejected, since the existing international treaties oblige it to act in a different way. In particular, the Vienna Convention calls for an international treaty to be implemented in good conscience, and the State cannot renounce its international obligations simply because it is established by national law. The proposed amendment by a German colleague proposes such an approach. If it is adopted, an international agreement may not be implemented. For those reasons, we rejected it because we cannot fail to implement international agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u161	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to make 85 adjustments, please. [[17:22:52]] For the 15th. No! No! We are now voting for the 85th amendment. Dear Mr. Levchenko, I will speak louder. It's rejected, it's only supported by 15 deputies, and 75th, you're right, we voted a long time ago, ten minutes ago. Next amendment, 87 people's MP Branzowicz, please. 86th, please, she's on the committee, but the national MP, Kudlainko, is asking. Please turn on the microphone for the Kudlain National MP. Ah, Sevrukov, I'm sorry. Excuse me, colleague, excuse me. Sveruce, of course. 86 amendments, this is an amendment to the copyright committee, and it was counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u162	Yeah, yeah. Mikola Leonidovich, too, using the first word, I want to thank you for the work that is being done, done and carried out with regard to this bill, and I want to ask you what this amendment, which is considered, that the order of the use of Crimean Tatar and other indigenous languages has been passed into a separate bill that will be drafted and considered separately by us. I'd like to welcome this kind of standardizing technique when individual profiling laws raise questions. As far as regulation is concerned, we will continue to consider language regulation in various areas after the bill and, in particular, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that such a technique would be useful, for example, in the section on language in the media, in the media. As a representative of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, I will highlight this in further consideration. And here I wanted to pay attention and, of course, I don't want to vote. I think it's been properly considered by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u163	Thank you very much, dear colleague of Sevrukov. I see Mr. Chubarov's hand. Please comment to the committee head on the Ukrainian language in the media, and then we do not insist on a vote of 86 amendments that have been counted. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u164	Thank you. Well, it's our discussion or the media language that should be regulated exclusively by the Television and Radio Act or should be regulated by that law. I also had a lifelong attitude towards the media, but the position of most of the members of the committee and the public activists and the creators of this law was that because in most cases this rule is governed by the Television and Broadcasting Act, there are some points that are also mentioned in this law in order to then, if anyone wants the revisionist to reduce the use of Ukrainian, it would be more difficult to do so. But we're going to talk about this with you specifically when we're obviously going to get to that standard and seriously discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u165	Thank you for your clarification. Once again, my colleague Sevrukov does not insist on voting the amendment. Please turn on Mr. Chubarov's microphone and I'm asking you to sound the correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u166	Thank you very much. In general, it would be an ideal situation if we were to consider this project at the same time as the second draft of the Law on the Order of the Application of Crimean Tatar Language and Other Languages of Indigenous Peoples, National Minorities. But we realize that there are no ideals. I'm here, really, very grateful to the committee members for bringing this point here. It's not just binding on us, given that we're still going to be doing this next week, I think we're going to be voting for the State Language Act, it's just, well, it's going to put us into certain parameters that we're going to develop and adopt the Crimean Tatar Language Act, the languages of other indigenous peoples, the national minorities, in accordance with this law, but in that case, to the maximum, by setting standards for their preservation and development.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u167	Thank you. Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u168	I want to thank Mr. Chubarov for understanding. We, indeed, have personally been a principle position for me to mark here separately the Crimean Tatar language, although you understand that there have been different thoughts, but we have noted this, this is indeed a very great responsibility, because we have to protect the rights of all the indigenous peoples of Ukraine, and especially the Crimean Tatar people, who have suffered so much from the annexation of Russian aggression and the abuses that the aggressor is now carrying out on this nation. So we will definitely do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u169	Thank you. We're moving on to the repairs. I see the hand of the People's Deputy Lesjuk, but we need to move on to the amendments. Then you have a microphone. Now 87 amendments to the People's Deputies of Branzowicz. And then Mr. Lesjuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u170	Thank you. Article 3 should be deleted completely because it does not regulate any legal relationship and is essentially declarative. And not only are they declarant, but they don't fit the content of the bill. It does not refer to the use of Ukrainian words, phrases and terms instead of foreign languages; the prevention of Ukrainian language and the mixing of it with other languages; the dissemination of knowledge of Ukrainian language and its role in the development of Ukrainian and European cultures; the promotion of Ukrainian dialects and dialects; and their preservation, although it is so loud in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u171	Please comment on this amendment, Mr. Branzowicz. Please, Mr. Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u172	The committee rejected Mr. Branzowicz's amendment. Indeed, there are no rights and obligations in this amendment, but that is exactly what it is, and it consists of Chapter I, which is called the General Principles. For the lawfulness of both the principles and the specific articles governing the legal relationship that will later be found in this law in the second chapter. The committee therefore rejected the amendment of colleague Branzowicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u173	Thank you. And I'd like to make 87 adjustments, colleagues, please. [[17:28:57]] For-13. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 88 Pisarenka. She was considered editorially, but insists on taking the floor here by the national deputy Lesjuk. Please, Mr. Lesjuk, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u174	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm talking about this article that we've just discussed. This is article 80 of the Criminal Code. There's just one last word, Mr. Mikolo, I'd like you to take a look at which one just needs to be thrown out. As far as "the realization of the rights of indigenous peoples" is concerned. The "implementation of the rights of indigenous peoples." This is the second part of this paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u175	Is that editorial?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u176	It just needs to be thrown out because it's not in any gate before. It happens by accident, so technically. No, I think we should just throw it out now so there's no more technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u177	Please comment to the committee head right now. But, as far as I understand, we have to go back to this proposal of yours, already when the committee head sums up our discussion before the final vote and under the transcript it's a word to take if there's room consent. Please comment to the committee head. But if there is an understanding of this question, I ask you to record it, Mr. Mikolo, and put it under the transcript during the final vote. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u178	Yes, Mrs. Irina, we will. Dear colleague, right now we can only vote to remove this amendment at all because there are no votes. Or we can consider your proposal at the end of the vote. I promise we'll do it. At the end of the vote, we will certainly take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u179	Thank you. And we're moving on. I understand that the People's Deputy Lesjuk does not insist on voting on 88 amendments. He just wanted to reiterate his position on the technical amendments to this article in general, 1 that we are discussing. Next. I said it right. I said that you did not ask for a vote but simply expressed your position about the technical amendments to the article that we are discussing. Is that clear? Great. Amendment of the 91st People's Deputy Kiskar. It's counted. Great. The '90s. Please, this is the amendment of the People's Deputy Lesjuk. She was counted, but he wants to take the floor. Please, Mr. Lesjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, we took into account the title of the article, yes. And we're saying, we're saying, by throwing out the word, there's no such concept, we're going to look at it again in the article, we're going to look at it again. There can be no such concept as the language of citizenship. In the name we changed the name of this article, yes. Nevertheless, we continue to apply this in paragraphs. Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u181	I'll give you an answer. Mr. Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u182	Comment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u183	Yes, Mr. Jaroslav, I fully support you. And, editorially, when we considered the amendment of 88 of Pisarenko’s colleagues, we took away the language of citizenship, since state status cannot be limited to citizenship in article 88. This was part of the accounting of a colleague of Pisarenko’s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u184	Thank you. Mr. Lesjuk does not insist on voting. I wanted to express my position as a member of the committee and a member of the working group. Mr. Kiskar’s 91th amendment was included as well. But he's asking for his word. By the way, I gave you my word, and now you've changed your mind. Please, please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u185	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. This is directly related to what Jaroslav Vasilovich just said. Because in fact, Mr. Mikolo, 131st common law, which refers to the definition of "every citizen of Ukraine is obliged to speak the national language", to our belief, there should be a dot. You went on and wrote "as the language of your citizenship." I mean, I don't know what it's for, what Jaroslav Vasilovich was talking about. Next word. The whole set of norms points to this expression. Why are you doing this? I don't know. You can explain, or you can take our changes into account, and you can subtract these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u186	Thank you. May I have your comment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u187	My colleague, this right of yours is completely taken into account in the article "as the language of Ukrainian citizenship" is excluded. As for 131 revisions. Let's get to it, then we'll talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u188	Thank you very much. And Mr. Kishkar does not insist on a 91-amendment vote. He also simply insisted on expressing his position. 92 Amendment, People’s Deputy, Belarusr. Your word, please. The amendment is taken into account, but Mrs. Oksana insists on the word. Two-a-a, that was one-a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u189	Thank you. I want to thank the committee and the committee head for the fact that almost all my corrections are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u190	Now, I'm sorry, Mrs. Oksana. Mr. Levchenko, when you insist on a word, and don't give it to God, the Presidency won't give you a word, a scandal begins. Mrs. Oksana is now insisting on a word after her amendment. Are you suggesting she turn off the microphone? Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u191	I want to thank the committee for the fact that most of my, almost all of the adjustments are taken into account. This is also taken into account, but as the debate arises, I just want to read to our audience what it is, because it's not clear to our citizens what we're talking about. Article 3(1): "The task of this law is that the State ensures (1) the protection of the state status of Ukrainian as a language of Ukrainian citizenship." We cleaned up "as the language of Ukrainian citizenship." And that's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Let's move on. The next amendment that wasn't counted by the committee, 95th. Please, National Deputy Germany. Here's your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u193	I want to say, let me tell you that 93 of these are included. This is also true of this rudimentary "like the language of Ukrainian citizenship". That's the way it's supposed to be. And put it all the way through the bill. Disgusting phenomenon. Where are we going? But I want to talk about 95. "Acknowledgment of Ukrainian as a language of interethnic communication and understanding in Ukraine." Well, so the wording and the legal definition, it's not readable from the point of view of application. As in life, throw yourself into Ukraine, not Kiev, behind it. And that's exactly what we're looking at, and that's why we're proposing. Rejected, but sadly. Read that universal development, the function of Ukrainian as a national language in all spheres, should be, taking into account languages, regional languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u194	Finish 30 seconds, please. Finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u195	Given the parallel, and as Europe says, side-by-side. Not near, not even, but side-by-side. Then we're going to be speaking English as a national language, not a Ukrainian language as a language of interethnic communication. This is the know-how of our authors of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u196	Thank you. I would like to point out that the committee and the working group have considered enough amendments and opposition representatives, as Mr. Germany correctly noted, 93 amendments have been taken into account. So this speaks of the very constructive work of the group. And for the 95th amendment, please comment to the committee head. This amendment is not counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u197	Thank you. Well, the point of this amendment is that a colleague of Germany and a colleague of Shufresch proposes to create opportunities for the parallel use of regional languages or minority languages in those areas and in those cases where it is justified. What is "justified" somebody here understands? It's hard to understand, even in the repealed law of Koleschenko-Kivalova, this has been more clearly prescribed. Well, what I'm saying is that the committee obviously rejected it on the grounds that creating opportunities for the use of regional languages can't be the task of the State Language Act. Another law must be passed for this purpose, as explicitly stated in part three of article 2 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u198	Thank you. He's calling for the Deputy Prime Minister. Please, Mr. Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. I want to say that it's a very soft law and it doesn't apply any harsh approaches, as some deputies are trying to tell the whole country. You can see that we're even turning down, you can say, that the support of Ukrainian as a national language should also predict and support it as a language of citizenship. Although we all understand that every citizen who acquires citizenship should speak the national language sooner or later. Now for regional languages. When we ratified the European Charter, we ratified it so that we did not protect minority languages, but regional ones that did not need protection in many regions. And so the norm that has now been proposed for the parallel use of regional norms has basically taken the whole world's view, the whole philosophy that's laid down in this law. So the committee rejected her quite correctly. And the languages of national minorities and indigenous peoples will be protected through a separate law, as has been said many times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u200	Thank you for clarifying the government’s position on this law. Dear colleagues, and I am asking to vote in favour of article 95 of the German National MP, she was rejected by the committee. The author insists on voting. Please. Mr. Krivenko, I don't want to put this law to a vote today. [[17:39:25]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. And then there's the 96th amendment of the German People's Deputy. Please. She was rejected by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u201	Dear colleagues and fellow countrymen! "Platform for Life" once again insists that there is no need to distort what is already directly looking and directly applied. The application of the national language, as stipulated in the bill, as a tool for uniting Ukrainian society. You realize that you have decided in the same way as a repressive tool. We're still going to get to what penalties are and what is the identity of responsibility. What do we know about the instrument of unification when it is a natural phenomenon that has become a tool? Please, I'd like to bring the philosophers here. So we suggest that the conditions for learning Ukrainian as a national language, as a regional language, or as a minority, are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u202	Please. 30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u203	This will be the perception, understanding and application and, if you will, the protection of the interests of foreign and national languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u204	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u205	Thank you. Obviously, this amendment is rejected on the grounds that the creation of conditions for learning regional languages and minority languages is not subject to the regulations of the Law on State Language. Another law must be passed for this purpose, as explicitly stated in part three of article 2 of this Law. I want to make some adjustments to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, who rightly stated that the law does not actually have penal functions. But after some opposition officials put some points on the stand, they returned these punitive functions. I hope that by preparing a democratic law and hoping for the awareness of our citizens, when we finally vote on this law, we will be able to take these penal functions for failure to comply with the law proposed by the representatives of the Environment, by introducing administrative responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u206	Thank you very much for clarifying the position of the 96 - article committee, which was rejected. And I ask you to vote on this amendment, this is Amendment 96, it was rejected by the committee. [[17:42:11]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. Next is the German national deputy. I'm sorry, the next is not Germany, but 97th is the amendment of the people's deputy Andria Teteruk, and it was taken into account in an editorial way. The author disagrees with this; he wants to take full account of it. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u207	Madam Chairman, honourable fellow national MPs, I find the discussion in every article and every right extremely important, because we are now laying the groundwork that would allow our country to develop, first of all, our native Ukrainian language, but first of all in the scientific process that our scientists are involved in. It should also be understood that the language that, for example, can be one of the languages of the European Union is usually used. So I'm very much asking that this 97 is taken into account in the context in which I put it. I talked to some of the scientists who asked us to do just that. And I therefore urge that paragraph 4 of the first part of article 3 of the draft law be supplemented by the following sentence: "In the course of international action, including scientific and educational measures, conducted in Ukraine in English and other official languages of the European Union, the exercise of representative functions by officials may take place in the language of the event." So I'm asking very much that we take into account this context.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u208	Finish it, please. You don't have to, all of it. The author’s position is understandable. Finish the chi. All right, the author's position is clear. Please comment to the committee head, why the amendment was only taken into account editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u209	First of all, I want to thank my colleague Teteruk for his principled protection of Ukrainian language, for his cooperation in the bill on the protection of Ukrainian language and culture. And to explain that it is simply not possible to accept this right in article 3, since it defines only the tasks of the law, not the regulation of rights and obligations. Rather, it is taken into account in article 22 and is considered editorially because it is included in another article, not in the one proposed by a colleague of Teteruk. But it's just a technical observation, and it's basically practically taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u210	Thank you. And as I understand it, Mr. Andrey is pleased and explained by the committee’s head, and he does not insist on voting. Mr. Teteruk's amendment to the 97th remains with the committee. The following amendment was made by the 98 national deputy of Germany, Vasil, who, along with his colleague Shufresz, prepared many amendments that were not included. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u211	I want to say what I started. In the Council of Europe today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was urged to postpone voting for the language law. Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights Dunja Miyatovic urged Ukrainian parliamentarians not to vote on the language law during the electoral period but to consider the law after the election. European Truth reported this to the Council of Europe on Tuesday. This indicates that it is unacceptable that the issue of the Ukrainian language alone is considered without regard to the status, the position, the law, and the rules governing the language of national minorities. That's not me, that's what the Council of Europe says. And secondly, I want to say and remind you again, we promised to send this law to the Venice Commission and to the Council of Europe for expertise. You hid it under there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u212	30 seconds, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u213	You hide it in a robe, you want to keep it out of the hands of the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe. And that's why I think we really need to stop, stop this abuse, all the more so during the difficult period that little Ukrainian woman is going through today. Surrender! Colleagues, this is the trouble behind it, we don't see who's sitting here. And look at how many people there are in the hall -- 92 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u214	I want to remind all the right-wing authors that the speeches are in order. And I would like to point out that the committee has been considering the draft law in full openness, with full access to all experts and society and open public debate. It's quite different from how the Koleschenka-Kivalova bill was considered, which you broke through this hall. All of our procedures are honest, open, and public. Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u215	Thank you. I want to support the Head of the Supreme Council and say that, indeed, the law was published long ago on the Supreme Council website, it was given. Council of Europe experts had access to it. They work, they advise us with this law, and with other laws that have already been passed, we improve our legislation, I see no problems here. As for the article you are proposing. You propose to apply the principle of pluralism. But this law is not about the principle of pluralism. In addition, you previously suggested that language standards should be regulated solely by dictionaries. There is no such word as "plerilinguism" in English dictionaries in 2005. That's why you're a little bit out of line here. You're only going to look at the words that are in the dictionaries, and here you're going to suggest words that are not in the English dictionary. Because this word is not the norm for regulating this law, this amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u216	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 98. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. The committee turned her down. [[17:48:29]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. And once again, I would like to stress that the form of the hearing provides for a justification, an answer to the committee and a vote, a discussion after that is not foreseen, is not envisaged. So, colleagues, you're going to have the following revisions and you can talk about them. 99th. Don't insist. 100th. He insists. Please, 99th, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u217	First of all, I'd like to hear the report on the decision of the Council of Europe. And the second. After all, why did you hide the bill behind the mud and not send it to Europe for expertise, as you requested, and, by the way, as NATO requests, where do you run to? NATO turned and said, look at these standards. So I would like you to somehow follow pluralism, that there should be all points of view, not the unilateral ideology of national radicals, as set out in this article. And now about that. We see that pluralism is behind it is impossible to allow such as Pharion or Nico to the ruler of the valley of language or the order of its application or spelling. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u218	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u219	Mr. Germany, so first of all, I want to tell you that if you had been personally approached by NATO, you could have made this proposal to NATO, which you were asked to put into effect, we would have voted for it. We don't have such amendments to your NATO appeal to you. And article 99 was rejected because it was incomprehensible. The words that are present after the words "delete" are not listed after which words are deleted and what is deleted. Since there are many such rights, it is obvious that the committee could not accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u220	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 99, and the committee rejected it. Please vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:50:55]] For-7. The decision is not taken. 100th. Don't insist. 101st. Don't insist. 102nd, Germany. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u221	Wait! Not just yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u222	102nd. 100th and 101st didn't insist on authors. 102nd. And please speak in terms of the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u223	Protecting the state status of the Ukrainian language, which is still referred to in 93rd. Let's move on. When we were speaking, you'd already abandoned me, even the honourable chairman, by the time we were 101st, and we hadn't passed this one. And we haven't studied Ukrainian yet. And we haven't passed paragraph 4. And we haven't passed paragraph 5. In particular, paragraph 5. Development of the Ukrainian language to strengthen national identity. I've been corrected here, but I'd like to hear what I want to hear. Why are the recommendations of both the Council of Europe and the recommendations of the Venice Commission ignored? That's all there is to it. And support our observation. And the additions and the changes that we're making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u224	I want to let you know that every correction is announced to me. Every turn. We are taught that the Constitutional Court has drawn attention to violations of the Rules. We've been through these revisions, now we're 102 on the right. We're not going back. Each amendment is announced from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Every single one of us, I emphasize, stresses and does not go through them. That's why 102nd. Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u225	Thank you. My colleague, Germany, was 99, but I'm going to answer 102. Hence, it is aimed at disfellowshipping the Law on State Language Support. If this amendment is adopted, very important things will disappear from the law. For example, colleagues from Germany and Shufrich are offering full measures to develop Ukrainian Sign Language to exclude it, although we believe that sign language and the people who use it should certainly be protected. Germany and Shufrich offer the promotion of dialects and dialects, which is certainly the cultural value of the Ukrainian people, not to study either. And that's what we're talking about here is the Lemkian language, the Hutzul language, the opposition to the ulgarization of the Ukrainian language. We cannot, colleagues of Germany and Shufrich, vulgarize Ukrainian language, however you wish to exclude this amendment. Because it's embarrassing to use vulgar words. Therefore, the committee suggests that this amendment be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u226	My colleagues, I want to remind you, after the 99th, there's already been a vote. Now we're at 102 and I'm asking you to be sure. The committee rejected it, 102 revisions. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[17:53:58]] For the 10th. The decision is not made. This means that there will be no swearing in the English language. 103rd. Don't insist. We've passed, 100 revisions are Birds. Please, Kishkar. 100 revisions, Kishkar is co-author, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u227	Actually, the correctness itself, Mr. Mikolo, refers to one word -- the word "perfect", which formally gives a slightly clearer interpretation of the article itself. And in general, with regard to the bill itself, we need to explain more clearly to the lords of the people's deputies the difference between the words "promotion of study" and the words "encouragement of study." Because today. Mrs. Irina, what's not to your satisfaction? You're not letting the national MP say anything or anything? What's bothering you? Thank you. Listen better and give the right answer. What's the difference between "contribution" and "security" in the body of the bill itself? Thank you, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u228	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u229	Thank you, thank you. At the right hand of the 6th Collegiate Birddog suggested that article 3 of the project delete the word “perfect” in subparagraph (a) and delete subparagraphs (d) and (g). It's partly accounted for because we ruled out the word "perfect," because it's an evaluation criterion. Moreover, under this law, Nazcomisi has to determine the level of language, among which there can be no such thing as "perfect possession" because there are certain criteria. That's why it's edited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u230	Colleagues, I want to emphasize that I'm announcing every issue. Every one. You just have to be careful and raise your hand when I announce it, not then. So 103rd. Don't insist. 104th. Don't insist. 105th. Don't insist. 106th. Don't insist. 107th. Don't insist. 107th. 107th. Colleagues, I announce, I continue for 10 minutes. I'm going to continue for 10 minutes. Please, 107th, Igor Vasjunik. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u231	Thank you. Article 3 of the Law refers to a list of the language laws. The amendment suggested that subparagraph 6 (c) of part 3 of the draft Law should be amended as follows: "the application of Ukrainian language in accordance with Ukrainian language standards rather than the requirements of Ukrainian spelling" since the bill further contains numerous references to Ukrainian language standards. The committee took my amendment into account, but I asked you not to put it to the vote, but to explain to the committee manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u232	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u233	Thank you. We had a whole bunch of words, different terms, either language standard, or according to Ukrainian language standards. Our amendment has been changed in one word in all of these cases, in all of these proposals, we have the "standard of the state language." And the relevant standards will be set by the National Standards Commission. So it's clearly written in the law just to unify these concepts. Thank you, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u234	Don't you insist on voting? After the 106th of Oksana Bilozer, I understand, for confirmation? Please turn on the microphone. Oksana Bilozer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u235	I would just like to hear an explanation, for there is no one to comment on this. This is about what we talked about earlier, Mr. Mikola. The point is that in article 3, paragraph 6, the words "according to the requirements of Ukrainian spelling" which then appeared in the Ukrainian spelling are unknown to us why we had previously spoken to replace the words "according to the language standard". What did you consider editorially?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u236	We've replaced those words with the term "national language standard." And spelling is part of the standard of national language. The spelling is part of the standard of the national language. And we substituted "language standard" for "national language standard."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u237	Don't they insist on confirmation? No, it's not. So 108th. Don't insist. 109th? 109th, Teteruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u238	105th. Okay, 105. But I remind you again, I make every clear and explicit statement. I already called it 105. Okay, 105th, Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u239	I'm asking you to go back to 105 revisions. Because it's extremely important that we put my work into this edition. Paragraph 5 (c) of the first part of article 3 of the draft law should be supplemented by the following sentence: "This should take account of the specific features of the sector and the scope of the use." What are you talking about? It's about certain sectors, like the medical IT sphere, that have enough specific terms. Either we're using some Russians right now, or we're using ruses, or we're using English definitions, but we don't have Ukrainian substitutes. It would therefore be appropriate for us to use Ukrainian associates and definitions even in such areas. So I'm asking very much that 105 revisions be counted exactly as I put it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u240	The chairman of the committee would like to make this amendment clear to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko, please. Turn on Kirilenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u241	Thank you. Since there has been an attempt to frighten the entire Ukrainian people, which will be some terrible spelling that no one knows about, it is necessary for us to understand with you that all the assessments and actions provided for in this bill, which will become law, will be based on the standards of the State language. Therefore, the designated body with special status is the National Commission of Public Language Standards, which will include speakers and representatives of the authorities. And because no matter how the spelling changes, if it changes at all, it won't affect the standard literally. Since standards will provide for social use, there will be no surprises for those who do not speak the language perfectly. So this point is fixed and the spelling is practically nowhere else mentioned in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u242	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes. Yes. Well, please, Princess 105.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u243	I want to complement my colleague Kirilenka, to answer my colleague Teteruk that we consulted with the linguists, he can't depend on a particular field or sphere of use. Spelling is spelling, and sectoral terminology is different. And the use of sectoral terminology and its standardization, where a colleague of Teteruk rightly insists, are prescribed in laws that regulate the activity of a special body that sets standards. Mr. Andrew, you'll see there that what you're writing about will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u244	I'm betting on a vote of 105. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:01:41]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 109 right. Don't insist. 110 lashes. Don't insist. It's 111. Don't insist. 112th. Don't insist. 113th. Don't insist. 115th, the author doesn't insist. 109th. 109th, Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u245	Thank you. This is about 109 revisions, in which I am in sub-paragraph (d) of section 5 of the first article of the draft law after the word “instead of foreign” is added to the term “in the event of the presence of relevant terms in Ukrainian in a particular field and practice in a particular field”. Justification. For example, the use of Latin names of animals and plants in scientific texts or the use of known foreign winged expressions should not be considered a violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u246	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u247	My friend, your readjustment is actually fully accounted for, only instead of the words "if there is" is used the word "if there is." I hope that suits you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u248	Don't you insist on voting? No, you can do this to me. Don't you insist? Okay. It's a deal. So let's keep going. 115 right. Don't insist. 116th. Don't insist. 115th, Rybchin. Rybchin, it's rejected. Sorry, 115th Rybchin. I'm sorry. 116th. Don't insist. 117th. Don't insist. 118th. Don't insist. 119th, Germany. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u249	First, the proposed standard relates to material costs. As far as I can remember, there is no financial cost for the adoption and implementation of this law at all. What do we know? Is there such a bill that can be considered? If there is no money, what will we talk about when we introduce it? That's the first one. And second of all. You see, the spread of Ukrainian in the world and the promotion. Look, please, Mr. Mikolo, look at the expert's findings, look at the findings of the Venice Commission on World Dissemination. You realize that these are inadequate expressions that are not in legal theory at all and are not in legal theory. Where did you go? That's why we want to correct this position from the Opposition Block, as you say. Write modestly: Maintaining and developing a culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u250	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u251	between different language groups. The question is between the nations, the question of opening these borders, and so that we can sit down and make a deal, and there is not this hostility that you've led us to. You've run, you've run, you've run, you've run, you've run, you've run, you've run, you've run, you've run. to Europe. Europe tells you that you're not running, but you're still fighting. I'm sorry. Please consider ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u252	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u253	Well, I wouldn't want to go into a discussion about who's running around and who's passing it on to whom through space. I just want to say that a well-established cultural relationship between different language groups is an important and useful task, and it's just that this task is not subject to regulation of this law, because it's a law on national language. Instead, if you join our intercultural projects that are being prepared on our committee regularly and initiated, we will be extremely grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u254	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 119. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[18:06:10]] For -8 The decision is not taken. 120th. 121st. 122nd. 123rd. 124th. 126th. 127th, Branzovich. What's that? 120th. Papiev, 120th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u255	Thank you. Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! We understand this important legislative work being done by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but I am addressing the chairman. Look, I raise my hand to account for the amendments that are taken into account to give arguments to put them on the stand. I'll have to give you tomorrow then, Mr. Head, a written statement listing the number of those rights so you can give me your word. Because I'm raising my hand, you're pretending that you don't see that the Ukrainian National MP wants to take advantage of his constitutional right to legislative initiative and to make his comments and suggestions about an amendment. I'm asking you to make 120 amendments for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u256	Colleagues, you're lying. Well, anyone who intends to raise his hand gets that word. Why lie in front of people? Everyone here, everybody sees it. Your hand was raised, and I immediately announced your amendment. But give it to me in writing, it's no big deal. This is going to help me understand the logic and the number of lines you're going to put. So if you do it in writing tomorrow, it'll just be to greet me as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 120 to the right, please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u257	I have a question for my colleague Papiev. Here's a colleague of Bilozer's. My colleague Denisenko requested this amendment to add: "The spread of Ukrainian language in the world and the promotion of the language needs of Ukrainians who live or are temporarily outside Ukraine." This is about the language needs of millions of Ukrainians or workers, or just people who are now living in Ukraine. We must not abandon them. Ukrainians working in Poland, Ukrainians living temporarily in Italy or Portugal, or anywhere else in the world. And my colleague, Denisenko, just asked me to add to the law that the Ukrainian state would take care of them, help them. Why does a colleague of Papias hate these Ukrainians so much? Explain, please. You're Ukrainian of the Blacks. Please give the floor to Papiev. For when a confirmation of an amendment is given, it is an attempt to break the amendment so that it does not be read without estimating it. You support Ukrainians abroad, you love them, you're an honest citizen of Ukraine. Well, yes, Opoblok wants to destroy the Ukrainian state, he doesn't like Ukrainian language. But it's not that price or you, honestly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u258	Thank you. Colleagues, I would like to remind you, a series of rights reviews: the speech, the committee head's response, and the vote. There is no reply, the appeal goes to each other. There's an appeal to each other during the consideration. That's why there's no replica. That's why, colleagues. But I'm asking you to confirm 120 revisions. I want to remind you that the head of the committee will be able to return to her. I'm betting on the confirmation of 120 revisions. Please vote and support the committee. The committee's asking her to support it. Vote. [[18:09:55]] For-50
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-12-m1.u259	The decision is not taken. Colleagues, now let's figure out which one of these adjustments. That's it, I'm done. What's the readjustment we're going to continue tomorrow. 121st. One second, 121st is Princely. We're starting at 121. So, colleagues, tomorrow we're starting a review with 121 revisions. Colleagues, I'm not trying to rush anyone. I'm totally in line with the Rules. But I ask the right-holders to participate carefully in the discussion. And, colleagues, I want to stress you, to make a message. As a result of our morning meeting, I am particularly addressing the heads of factions, and I have asked the Interim Investigation Commission to investigate the facts of the dissolution of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and to undermine the defense of the state. And tomorrow at 3 a.m., the interim investigation committee has already scheduled its meeting. So, in particular, I'm informing everyone who intends to take part in this discussion, there will be a meeting of the interim commission of inquiry at 3 p.m. in the conference room. Here, yes, where the Conciliation Council takes place, where the Conciliation Council takes place. So, colleagues, I'm expecting everyone tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue our work, especially the head of the committee. And now for the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. See you tomorrow, colleagues.
