ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please invite the national deputies to the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[16:06:06]] There are 371 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, during my break, our colleagues approached me. There's an exhibition on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called Modern Ukrainian Space. It shows the development and achievements of the South Star KB in the space sphere, and it's scheduled for the World Space Week and the launch of the Earth's first artificial satellite. I also offer you all, if there is a possibility and a desire, to join it. And I also offer the media to visit this exhibition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, while we're still gathering, an announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The Supreme Council Rules have been established in the Supreme Council on the ninth occasion of the convening of the interfractional Cuban MPs. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Hončarenko Alexiyovich, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, there was a suggestion to change the order of the day. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko insisted. Is she in the hall right now? She asked if I was wrong to consider Bill 0906. Is Irina Volodymyrna? It's registered. And we've only had 10 minutes, if I'm right. Couldn't you find out? Well, I'd just like her to express her position on the matter. I'm not sure that Artem Sergiyovich knows where Irina Volodymyr is, but I'm sure. Irina Volodymyrna, yes, was your proposal to change the order of the day, to consider matters of the order of the day. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we believe it is extremely important for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill No. 0906 concerning military titles as a whole. This is the title of the sergeant's warehouse, which clears the post-Radians system of names in our Ukrainian Armed Forces and leads these titles to the norms of NATO countries. Sadly, this important bill has been put into order for several days in a row. And we think it's very important to accept it now. We suggest we support that. But it's very important for everyone in the session room to come together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u5	I'm sure there's enough votes to raise it up, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u6	You can see it from your speaker's chair. We're here to accept him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u7	I just want you to make sure that there's respect for the opposition, yes. Dear colleagues, to us. Yes, Basil. Vasil Ivanovich Nimchenko. With motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u8	Dear Lord Chairman! Bill 36-1 is on the line, please. See? This is another bill that minimizes the activities of a national MP as a subject of law enforcement and a subject of lawmaking. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u9	Vasil Ivanovich, I'm sorry to interrupt, but this is not about the question that we're discussing right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u10	I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u11	Make a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u12	Since the bill is in a system of total elimination of the rights of the people’s deputies, the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy Act is on the line, and here it changes the status of the national MP. I'm asking you to withdraw this bill 36-1 and start listening to this case, and this one goes forward and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u13	You're not a subject, Vasil Ivanovich, I'm sorry, but you're not the subject of a legislative initiative on this law, are you? So I don't think it's entirely right to ask to take it off. This is not provided for in the Rules. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is now a proposal to change the order of the agenda and consider Bill 0906. Is there support for such an initiative? We need to vote it out or something. I now propose to consider Bill 0906. It's fine in the daytime, but we'll just look at it a little bit earlier. Okay? Please support and vote. [[16:11:32]] For 234 Decision taken. Let's move on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, you have before you the proposed draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (registration number 0906). The report is given to the deputy head of the Committee on National Security, Defence, and Intelligence, Besugor Marianne Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I apologize for the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (for military service and military service). The bill is aimed at improving Ukraine's legislation on military duty, introducing new military names of the Sergeant and Senior Armed Forces of Ukraine that meet NATO standards, increasing the role of the sergeant and senior staff in the teaching and training of subordinate personnel and their tasks by appointment, creating additional motivational factors for the conduct of Ukrainian citizens of military service by contract, which will facilitate the transition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to a professional basis. In response to the commission, the committee prepared the project for the second reading. During the drafting of the bill, nine suggestions were made that were included. The main legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepared for the second reading of the bill, is prepared with observations that may be partially taken into account, namely with regard to the exclusion from the text of the bill of the words "military prosecutor's office" and other terms that have already been adopted in previous bills. With regard to the exclusion in paragraph 36 of Sub-paragraph 11 of chapter III of the first draft of questions on honourary State rewards and other terms that fall within the powers of the President of Ukraine. With regard to the replacement in article 24 of the figure "164" to "15" and the deletion in paragraph 3 of paragraph 2 of section "End and transitional positions" of the word "temporary". So we see technical legal remedies and the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the above proposals and the corresponding technical and legal drafting. This bill introduces Nazi titles for the sergeant and senior ranks, for the soldiers, and also regulates their development according to NATO standards and those challenges that are now facing our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u15	The motive is Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, I would like to refer once again to the session room, to explain that this bill has been prepared by the Supreme Council of the previous convening. We accepted it in the first reading in May and prepared it for the second reading, but the previous Supreme Council could not accept it as a whole. I thank the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that he is now standing in order of the day. This bill is likely to unite the session hall because it is important to the Armed Forces of Ukraine. And this is the law that our army is waiting for. Thank you for bringing this bill to the vote. And we ask for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote because I would like to thank the committee. All the amendments that have been taken into account, and we can quickly go to the vote for this bill. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (registration number 0906). I ask you to prepare for the vote and invite the national MPs if anyone has not come in. Ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, I'm asking for a vote. Please support and vote. [[16:16:35]] For 278 Against 0, hold on to 22. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show me the factions, please. People's Servant - 212, Opposition Platform - For Life - 0, European Solidarity - 16, Fatherhood - 11, Future - 9, Voice - 16, non-fractional - 14. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the submission of parliamentary inquiries. This is the second reading (registration number 1036-1). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u18	The ruling committee prepared for the second reading of the bill (registration number 1036-1), which relates to the submission of parliamentary inquiries, according to the commission of the Supreme Council. In general, we were received. 32 proposals came to the committee. And it's predominant. More than half are taken into account or taken into account in part, in particular, the proposals of the people's deputies are supported: Puziyczuka, Sinyutka, Knyazevića - regarding the exclusion from the draft individual provisions that previously provided information to the presiding officers in the plenary only about the number of parliamentary requests made, not their short content, as defined in the current Rules. So these positions are left in a more perfect form. Proposals for the placement of parliamentary requests on the official website of Parliament are supported. As for publications of laws, other acts of parliament, they are published on the official website of the Supreme Council. It's about laying things down. in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine, the provisions of article 15 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, which provides for the decision to make a request, a parliamentary request to the President. And also with regard to the introduction of article 25 of the Status Act, this is about the declaration of property status to the current version of the Anti-Corruption Act. I'm going to remind you that in actual terms it sounds like a "deputy in the form of a job." Instead, we are guided by the Constitutional Court's position, the decision of 29 January 2008. I would like to remind you that, according to the Constitutional Court's position, the realization of the right to be elected to the authorities of the State, namely passive electoral law, unlike the exercise of the right to work, does not depend directly on the will of the person. And according to the ratio of articles 38 to 43 of the Constitution, political activity, including the election of a national MP, is not intended and is not directly based on the remuneration of wages for such activities. This is, by the way, this legal position applies quite directly to those changes that were made yesterday by Law 1036. Please support this law in second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u19	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. I suggest you move on to your rights review. Amendment number one, People's Deputy Froll. Don't insist. Amendment number 6, National Deputy Germany. Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to say that to refer to invalidity, I don't think that's exactly right. Since, as the subject of the legislative initiative, the National MP under the Rules can initiate anything that relates to the passing of the bill. It's in the Rules, and that's why I'd like us to listen here to what the National MP says. And second, on this issue, I want to say that it's not appropriate to consider right now, because we're going to be looking at this situation in a Sunday about limiting the powers of the national deputies in an unconstitutional way. You already have, you have, announced this bill. Let's say the mouse is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u21	Would you please take the seat of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u22	The committee’s position was to reject this proposal, since the number 4 alternative proposal of Puziyczuk was taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u23	Thank you. Are you insisting on voting for this amendment? Yeah? Yes. The vote is number 6 of the German National MP, and the committee proposes to reject this amendment. So please vote and determine. [[16:22:14]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Next line is number 9, National Deputy Germany. Are you insisting? Are you insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u24	My fellow Members, I would like to point out once again that this bill is essentially aimed at restricting the powers of the national MP defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, and, by the way, by law, by the status law of the national MP. In this regard, three decisions have been made by the Constitutional Court, please read. I would like to talk about the authors, and in particular I would like to say that the question is also about the activities of the national MP as a representative of the electorate. And limiting in any way is unacceptable. So I ask you to support this amendment and consider it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u25	With regard to 9 proposals, honourable national MPs, this bill does not limit in any way the current capacity of the national MP to make a request. So this is not a reasonable offer. And with regard to its direct content, it is rejected by the fact that these suggestions apply to the second part of article 32, and they do not harmonize with the provisions of part one of article 116 of the Rules, since such changes were not considered in the first reading. So the committee's decision was to reject proposal number nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u26	Vasil Ivanovich, do you insist on voting? Paul Froll, please step aside, you do not see your colleagues. Do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 9 of the German National MP. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[16:24:39]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 12, National Deputy of Germany. Are you insisting? Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u27	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, I'd like to see it. Listen to you, especially the reporter. If it is a matter of restricting the right of a national MP to a number of questions, please tell me, is this a restriction on his rights or not a restriction on his rights and interests? That's the first one. The other one. The proposal predicts that if we don't announce them here anymore, then, my colleagues, let's send a copy, at least let the copy be in order, so that we know that the National MP worked and put his vision on how to get out of the position where the laws are broken. That's all that's going on in this amendment, and that's why I'm supporting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u28	With regard to this proposal 12. The point is that it is rejected, since the number 11 proposal of the Puziyczuk People’s Deputy is taken into account. Regarding the limitation of rights. I would like to draw your attention to the national MPs that, according to the current part of article 225 of the Rules, at one plenary session no more than two parliamentary requests from a single MP may be announced. Deputies are now being announced on Friday. So compared to what the bill proposes, nothing changes compared to the MP’s current capabilities. This criticism is unfounded, unfounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u29	Do you insist on voting? Do you insist on supporting your application? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I understand. The vote is to be voted on by the German People's Deputy Number 12. Dear colleagues, the committee has rejected this amendment, so there is a proposal for voting and determining. [[16:27:20]] For-47 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u30	Amendment 13, People's MP Blue. Knyazevich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I have a question for the honourable lord of the committee. As far as I understand from this revision, and it's included in a different edition, unlike the first reading, the committee proposes to introduce two concepts: "official publication" and "official publication." "Official publication" is in the Voice of Ukraine and the Supreme Council, and "official publication" is on the Supreme Council website. Do I properly understand that, first, and in the Voice of Ukraine and the news, it means that there must be publications there, and only after their publications do we have to understand that, one day, there should be publications, or how laws become effective? And the second. What is official publication? What will it also see as official publication and law - enforcement from official publication? That is, so that we don't get mixed up in this situation and the time when we get the status laws that are published or published.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u32	The number 14 proposal was rejected on the grounds that the number 15 proposal was taken into account because they were alternatives. And it's now predicted that the publication of laws, other acts of the Supreme Council in these published media, and it's actually said in the Voice of Ukraine, in the printed media, and their publication on the official website is a corresponding official publication and official publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u33	Ruslan Petrovich, of course you insist. Don't insist! [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, I get it, and I hear you don't insist. Thank you. Next line is number 14 of the Puzijchuk People's Deputy. Is he insisting? Don't insist. Next line is number 16, National Deputy Royal. None. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u34	Amendment number 17, Blue. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Amendment number 19, Katchura. Are you insisting? Yeah. Turn on the Kachuri microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u35	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Dear colleagues, hundreds have begun to come to each of you since your first day of work, and if you are a major, perhaps thousands of appeals from Ukrainian citizens. The only effective way to protect citizens’ rights is through a parliamentary request. And this is not what you, MPs, need millions of Ukrainians to decide. We only vote with a green button if you really think you're people's deputies. I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u36	Sergei Vitaliyovich, your position. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u37	It's also a proposal that greatly expands the ability to ask MPs, it's about the criticism that it's kind of narrowing down. This bill, it's not narrowing down in any way. But this proposal, it expands considerably. Well, at the committee meeting, she was rejected. If the honourable fellow MP insists, of course, it should be put to the vote and possibly supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u38	I mean, categorically, I understand that she's not in the room, right? Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote number 19 of the Kachura People's Deputies. The committee dismissed her at its meeting, but there is, I take it, a position to support her. If you don't mind, I'll put it to a vote. Please support and vote. [[16:31:55]] For 304 Crazy unity, 304 in favor. [[Applause]] Decision taken. Edit No. 19 Cachures accounted for. Let's go. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party - 226, "The Opposition Platform for Life" - 17, "European Solidarity" - 16, "The Fatherhood" - 10, "For the Future" - 11, "The Voice" - 12, "the non-factional" - 12. Decision taken. Thank you. Next line is number 20, Royal. There's no Natalia Yuriovna? 21st, Germany. Please turn on Vasil Ivanovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, here, is the same principle of the lawmaker who made this proposal. You see how you can disagree with my colleague earlier that we are servants of the people, as far as I understand. But if the people ask, we have to answer them, we have to check. Read article 116 of the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies. What are we doing? What are we limiting? And here we're told from the rostrum that don't limit it. Now they've voted and told you. And so I would like to, and I insist on this amendment that we stop restricting the subject of the legislative initiative. This is unacceptable in fact, it is a blow to parliamentaryism in general. It can't be. And that's why I'm asking you to support my amendment to this account. You cannot limit the activities of a national deputy simply by your own surveyors.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u40	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u41	Committee position: The committee rejected this proposal by a German deputy. It is an alternative to the one that was accepted by the committee and to the offer of a deputy to Kachura.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u42	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich, is there a need to vote? None. Thank you so much for being constructive. Next line is number 22 of the People's Chamber of Blues. Yes, I'm sorry, National Deputy Knazevitch. Ruslan Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u43	Thank you, Your Honor, for presiding. Still, I'd like to ask you, first of all, about the number of requests. We have just voted that such requests from a deputy may be no more than 10 during a sessional week. As for the committees, the second subject is still the committee. I take it we're not restricting them at all? This is the first question to be found in this session hall. And the second question that concerns me, I didn't get the answer. Nevertheless, official publication and official publication – does this mean that they are identical terms. And until the law is published on the site, is it officially considered to be unpublished, not effective, and vice versa?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u44	As far as I'm concerned. This law, first of all, as far as the first part is concerned, this law is in no way interfered with the competence of committees to make parliamentary inquiries. With regard to the official relationship of understanding – official publication, official publication – this law does not apply in any way to how these issues are settled in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u45	Ruslan Petrovich, are you insisting? Don't insist. Thank you. Next line is number 24, People's MP Puziychuk. Don't insist. Amendment number 25, National Deputy of Germany. Don't insist. Amendment number 26, National Deputy Puziychuk. Don't insist. Amendment number 29, National Deputy Royal. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u46	31st Amendment, Germany. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have gone through all the regulations that have been proposed for consideration but have not been taken into account by the committee. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the submission of parliamentary requests (registration No. 1036-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:36:46]] For 248 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 231, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 9, "For the Future" – 2, "Voice" – 0, "non-fractional" – 6. Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules on Electronic Documentation (Registration No. 1044-1). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich. Fellows, don't break up, please, there's very little right here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u47	Honorary Presidium, Honourable People’s Deputies, on the Committee, examined the proposals made by the legislators for this Law amending the Rules for the Establishment of Electronic Documentary Procedures (Registration No. 1044-1). In general, 18 suggestions have been made to the Committee in terms of 116 articles, including, well, the vast majority: 12 are taken into account and one is included in part. In particular, the proposal of Deputy Frolov to create electronic documents for the bill itself of accompanying documents in a single automated system to be determined by an appropriate position approved by the Head of the Supreme Council. With the reasoned request of the national deputy, he may receive copies of the documents listed in part 1 of article 98 of the Rules. We responded to some of the concerns expressed by the people’s deputies when this bill was discussed in the first reading. Also included are the proposals made by the people’s deputies Kultenka, Comedian, Puziyczuk, and some of the proposals made by the people’s deputy Vlasenko. The committee adopted the conclusion and recommended that Parliament accept it in a second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to law enforcement. Amendment number four, national MP Blue. Don't insist. Amendment number 5, National Deputy Vlasenko. He insists. Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Head. In fact, it's a very good law. The only thing is there are two technical issues that I believe need to be resolved, but somehow they don't. The first question that touches amendment number 5. If the MP wants him on paper, I don't see a problem with why. Bill, why don't you do that? Look at the motivation of the committee: the amendment is rejected because there is no way to make a note on paper when switching to electronic documents. To be honest, in the garden of my mouth and in Kiev, my uncle. When you go to electronic documents, you still have the technical ability to make notes on a paper medium, if that's what the MP wants. If he doesn't want to, no questions asked, they registered electronically and moved on. And if the MP needs it, I don't see why not. There's no problem here, absolutely technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u50	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u51	Thank you for your question. Sergey Volodymyrovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that as early as 2003, Parliament adopted the Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Documents. Article 5 and the provisions of articles 5 and 7 of this Law provide that the visual form of the electronic document is the representation of the data it contains, by electronic means or on paper in a form fit for acceptance. And a copy of the paper on paper for electronic documents is the visual submission of an electronic document on paper that is documented in accordance with the law. So there's no need at all for what you're saying: to reflect in parallel in the Rules. What's more, I'm going to remind the people's deputies. In the fall of 17th year, the people's deputies on the eighth call accepted amendments to the procedural codes, initiated an e-court institution. So even there you predicted that when the case is fully handled in electronic court mode, it is possible to transfer it into paper, that is, from the number to the paper. And these are also authentic documents. That's why it's not here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u52	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, are you insisting on your right? Vote number 5 of national deputy Vlasenka Sergija Volodymirovich. The committee's amendment is rejected, but it's a vote. So please vote and determine. [[16:42:01]] For-63 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u53	Thank you. Next line is number 8, National MP Blue. Don't insist. Nine lashes, Blueberry. Don't insist. 10th, Vlasenko. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u54	Thank you, Mr. Head. Mr. Reporter, well, believe me, my experience in the Supreme Council is that there are a million cases when a national MP needs to get a properly certified copy of the bill, which, with a reference when he joined the Supreme Council, is paper-based. We absolutely support what is now called "digitalization," or digital, electronic communication, including legislation. But if necessary, why not just write it down in the law, what can be done? It's going to be one case for 100 people, but, well, it happens, believe it or not. And on the 10th, there's something else at all. It's about being able to get paper-based what's called the matter of the bill. Maybe. I asked the apparatus to do this. You wrote to me that it's not just the camera, it's also the committee. No questions asked. Let's add and let the MP get the answers if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u55	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u56	The position of the committee is that. It was completely just reflected by the respectable Sergey Volodymyrovich. Because the apparatus can only have separate documents at its disposal, and it works, it's on the Main Committee, so the proposal, as the deputy himself says, "Let's write it another way." So that's when we had to formulate this proposal differently. As a result, she was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u57	Please, 8th Knyazevich. I'm sorry. Sergei Volodymyrovich, of course, you insist on voting. I was thinking maybe something would happen. Beautiful. Vote number 10, National Deputy Vlasenka Sergija Volodymirovich. The committee proposes to reject this amendment. So please vote and determine. [[16:44:39]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Please. Missed the 8th, Knyazevich. Excuse me. Amendment number 8, National Deputy Knazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Sergei Vitaliyovich, I have a question for the next act. I, in principle, thank the committee for taking into account the idea that I announced in the first reading, as you said, that the bill should be accompanied by printed paper, the original documents. But somehow it says that "in the absence of them, certified copies may be provided in an orderly manner." What's that? What do you mean, "in the right order"? What copies? What, is it hard for a person to sign and submit a bill with his signature? I think we need to clear that sentence. And the second. In this case, if a person wants a paper medium, it is written that according to a valid requirement of the national MP to the Apparatus, he may be given paper copies of the documents mentioned. What's a "reasonable requirement"? Who's to decide that? Should the machine decide whether the deputy has made a reasonable request to him or not? Why do we allow the apparatus to be so appraised? Excuse me, if you have bad vision or you can't use a boyfriend and you want the table to be on the table normally when you look at it in the second reading, is that justified or not? Who in the Apparatus will determine the basis for the decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u59	Committee position, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u60	Committee position. First of all, I am again forced to draw attention to the position of article 7 of the 2003 law on electronic documents and electronic documents. A copy of the document on paper for an electronic document is the visual presentation of the document on paper, which is certified in the order established by the legislation. So it's already there, it can't be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u61	Dear colleagues! Ruslan Petrovich, are you insisting? Of course. Vote No. 8 of the People's Chamber of Blues. The committee's proposing a rejection. So please vote and determine. [[16:47:01]] Z-62
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u62	For 62. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we've been through everything. Now, a minute. 17th Amendment of National Deputy Vlasenko, I will now give the floor, but, colleagues, please gather the national MPs, invite the national MPs to the hall, we will now vote. Thank you. Turn on the microphone of Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head. Unfortunately, 17 amendments are not taken into account in the way they were introduced. At 17th right, I'm touching another problem that's not solved by this bill. It's about filing electronic documents for MPs, so we don't have to do that when, you know, we're all in the session room, and then they're told that two minutes ago you're going to e-mail. And they're looking at the bill, and they're reporting that "two minutes ago, they sent you all the necessary documents, please, that's your problem." To that end, I have proposed a series of lines that I think should be reflected in the relevant article of this bill, so that this is settled and that there are no problems. And I would like to agree with my colleague Knazevitch that the bill actually allows for some copies of the paper, but there should be a valid statement by the National MP. So this is a completely voluntary structure that allows us to abuse the secretariat that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u64	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Sergei Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u65	The committee believes that this proposal by the 17th MP Vlasenka is taken into account in part; it is included in the editorial opinion in which the committee found it appropriate. That's why we think it's appropriate to stay exactly in line with 16 of the proposal -- one that was supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u66	Sergey Volodymyrovich, do you insist on voting? I'm betting on the vote number 17 of the owner, not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. And we're going to vote for the bill. [[16:49:34]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote for Bill 1044-1, please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the second reading and, in general, on the necessary technical legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the introduction of electronic documents relating to the legislative process (Registration No. 1044-1). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:50:54]] For 256 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, you have been given a draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management. — Registration No. 0913. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Energy and Housing of Shippail Ostap Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u67	Good afternoon, fellow believers! On October 2, 2019, a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management was discussed at the committee meeting. The bill envisages the introduction in Ukraine of an improved system of classification of radioactive wastes at their disposal, namely: adding to the existing classification a class of radioactive waste "very low-active" which corresponds to the world practice of dealing with radioactive wastes and the order of removal from the calculation of sent-off sources of ionizing radiation. Substantial decreases in the amount of radioactive waste that is already stored and stored in economic entities that produce radioactive waste. Increase the calculation of the treatment of ionizing radiation sources. The bill is a transitory one from the previous calling, so its preparation for the second reading was carried out in accordance with article 106 of the Rules. The committee recommends the adoption of a bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u68	Thank you. Let's move on to the right-hand side. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'll show you three revisions. Amendment number one, National Deputy Levchenko. Are you insisting? Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't find you. Just a second. Excuse me. I'm sorry, it was the previous call. There's no right, so. Dear colleagues, request to prepare for. [[B in m in s a l in]] I won't! I'm sorry! I've just got an electronic version, I've opened the previous one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u69	Dear colleagues, since all the amendments have been taken into account by the committee, I would like to thank the committee and all the colleagues who have joined this bill. And please prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving legislation on radioactive waste management (registration No. 0913). Please prepare for the vote. Please be supportive. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:54:45]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for purchasing funds from a well-known medical institution. — Registration No. 1152, 1152-1. It is suggested that the above - mentioned bill be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:55:38]] For 229 Dear colleagues, National Deputy Spanov Dmitry Yuriovich is on his way, so we're moving immediately to the second reporter. National Deputy of Ukraine Bakumov Aleksandar Sergiyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u70	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Bill 1152 proposes to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine on liability for falsification of medical devices or the circulation of counterfeit medical devices. Why is it presented as an alternative? Because, to my profound conviction, the proposals made by Mr. Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich in his bill are entirely covered by article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Ukraine has signed and ratified the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and Similar Crimes That Threaten Health. At the same time, a significant number of provisions of this convention have not been made in the Criminal Code. These include the burdensome circumstances provided for in article 13 of the Constitution, in particular the crime committed by individuals who abused the trust given to them as professionals, the second is the crime committed by persons who abused the trust given to them as producers, as well as suppliers, and the third is the crime of supply and supply offerings committed by means of large-scale dissemination tools, including the information system, including the Internet. Bill 1152-1 aims at improving the standards of effective legislation to prevent the circulation of counterfeit drugs in order to ensure consumer rights to safe and highly effective medical devices. For the purpose of ratifying all provisions of the convention, we propose clarifications in part of the qualifications and responsibilities provided for in article 321 of the Criminal Code. I point out to you that it is through the Internet that inadequate medical devices are distributed, which then become a cause of our nation’s loss of health. In summary, please support the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the liability for falsification of medical devices or the circulation of falsified medical devices in the first reading on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u71	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Legal Protection, Dennis Anatoliovich Monastery.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u72	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! At its meeting on October 9, this year, the Committee on Law Protection considered two alternative bills: 1152 and 1152-1. In fact, the difference between these bills was that Bill 1152 proposed to supplement the Criminal Code with a new article 321 p.m. 3 “Buying on budget funds is known to be non-cost drugs. Medical supplies." Instead, Bill 1152-1 proposes to amend existing article 321. 1 The Criminal Code: “Falsification of medical devices or the circulation of counterfeit drugs”. We also spoke to the members of the relevant medical committee and determined that the committee clearly recommended that the Supreme Council support the bill on the basis of 1152-1. Instead, Bill 1152, as a result of the first reading of the proposal to reject. I'd like to make up my mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes. Then the request to sign up: two in favor, two in opposition. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Bondar Mikhail Leonidovich, faction of the political party "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u74	Bondar Mikhailo. Please give me the word of Pottery Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u75	Yeah, I'm sorry. Alexei Hotcharenko. Same party, same faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u76	Dear friends! Alexei Hotcharenko, north of Clothing, European Solidarity. Our faction fully supports this bill. It's very important that we actually put "market," in quotes, of course, in order, because it's a huge problem in Ukraine today -- counterfeit medicine and counterfeiting. And all of this can lead to the death of people, and unfortunately, we understand what is happening. What's more, today we have something good to do for people, because today is the Day of Combating Poverty, and on this day, instead of fighting poverty, most of us are struggling with the poor, adopting the Verification Act, for example. Or Zelensky signed the FOP Act, by which. One more of them, pressing the last of them. So you have to do something good for people so that the day doesn't go by in vain. So I call on everyone, dear friends, let's vote for this law and really do something good from the Supreme Council to the people, especially the poor, because it's the poor people who are suffering from these inconvenient drugs that they're so happy to try to punish those who are criminals. So this is a good thing, and for everything else, people won't say thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u77	In fact, let's vote on another bill from the "Serve of the People" party. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite Abdullin Alexander Rafkatovich, the political party "The All-Ukrainian Union. Oh, I'm sorry. National Deputy Zimbaluk Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u78	A respected presiding, respected colleagues, well, indeed the Ukrainian people are suffering from inadequacies. As evidence of this is the latest data from the Court of Auditors, which showed the results of the tests, that, like the previous government, it was also purchased by non-quality medicines. And we thank the drafters of the bill, and we believe that the only correct practice will be to increase the criminal responsibility for the supply of, the purchase of, at the expense of, non-cost drugs. In addition, we believe that the process of processing will need to be taken into account, and we are willing to join in such work so that the increased criminal responsibility for the purchase of non-budgetable medicines may be hampered by the public funds of the Ministry of Health or another authorized body to purchase drugs that are almost out of date. And we know that the previous executive responsibility of the minister of health was precisely one of the authors of the purchase of such funds abroad. I, representing the faction, want to say that "Paternity" will vote in the first reading for Bill 1152-1 as an alternative. And once again, I stress my willingness to join in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since I do not have a list of those opposed, let me put the matter to the vote. There's an offer to take your seats, colleagues. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I'll ask the factions to invite their national deputies into the hall. Ready, fellows of honor? Please take your seats. Prepare for the vote, because we are now putting to the vote a bill under registration number 1152 with badge 1, a draft law amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for the purchase of budget funds on a well-known basis. Ready to vote? First reading. Please. Please vote and vote. [[17:05:26]] For 306
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u80	For – 306. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please tell me if we can consider this bill in a second reading. Well, not the second reading, but the whole reading? No, no. Dear colleagues, are you not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait. Okay. No, it's not. It was. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I can hear and see. A fellow member of the committee came in that two - reading arrangement. Okay. Okay. Then let's cut into the half term. Is there no such objection? Okay. Dear colleagues, in accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, put to the vote the proposal to cut the half-time of preparation for the second reading of the bill, registration number 1152-1, the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for the purchase of budget funds by means of predetermined medical means. Ready to vote, huh? Please support and vote. [[17:07:03]] For 256 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 231, "Responsible Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 1, "Fatherland" - 1, "For the Future" - 1, "Voice" - 0, "non-fractional" - 12. Thank you. Decision taken. David’s word is given to Abraham.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u81	Thank you. There is a question and a request to put in order today, to add to the agenda a draft decree on the creation of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation and implementation of a national policy on the restoration of territorial integrity and the safeguarding of Ukraine's sovereignty, if there is no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u82	Colleagues, I suggest you do this now. Now let's look at Bill 2161. And then we're going to consider this determination. I'll get the paperwork, the Supreme Council's apparatus, and we'll be able to look at it. Is there no objection? None. Okay. Colleagues, and here's another question that's now in the circulation of the draft of this decision. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service (Registration No. 2161). It is suggested that the above - mentioned bill be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:09:12]] For 252 Decision taken. For 252. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u83	Once again, good afternoon, dear colleagues, the honourable presiding officer! Your attention is given to the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service, number 2161. Smuggling and illegal migration pose constant risks and threats to our national security. In this context, there is an urgent need to organise an effective response to these challenges by amending Ukraine's legislation on operational and search activities carried out by the State Border Service of Ukraine. As of today, search and rescue units operate only within the administrations of the State Border Service of Ukraine and its regional authorities, and in the authorities of the State Border Service of Ukraine, which directly protect and protect the state border, there are no such units. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that the Border Command is the main operating chain that protects the state border. In view of the fact that, to date, the law has been laid down in such a way that the State border protection authority cannot have appropriate units in its structure or carry out appropriate operational and search activities, the changes noted need their approval. In view of the foregoing, I will be brief: I would like to support the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service, number 2161, on the basis and as a whole. The decision, by the way, was taken unanimously on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to the head of the committee’s committee on law enforcement work, Yacik Yulia Grigorovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u85	Good afternoon, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, your opinion is proposed by this bill to amend the Act on Operational Search Activities. This bill proposes to improve the operational and search activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service. In particular, since December last year, search and rescue units have been operating only within the administrations and regional offices of the State Border Service of Ukraine, while in fact in the authorities of the State Border Service of Ukraine, which are separate checkpoints, separate border troops, aviation units that operate directly at the State border protection posts, such operational units are not at all available. That's why they don't have intelligence units in the state today. The proposed bill confers the right of such operational and search units to respond more effectively to smuggling, illegal migration, other offences on the state border. Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ukrainian State Border Service Administration have upheld the law. The main scientific and expert office recommended that this bill be sent for further work. After reviewing the material, the October 9th committee unanimously adopted the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council consider the first reading and accept it as a basis and as a whole. So, colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please register by faction: two in favour, two in opposition. Dear colleagues, we have a deputy head of the border service, Nikiforenko Volodymyr Stepanovich, please turn on the microphone for two minutes. Then let's move on to two in a row, two in a row.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u87	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Please support the bill, given that it will allow the search and search units to return to the border. There was a sad mistake, they forgot to write it down, and in time, to change the situation, they didn't change the law, but they just pulled out the search and search units to the level of regional governments. He'll give it to you now. This toolbox will allow the head of the border team to better protect the state border and allow more quality work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the bill. I give the floor to the People's Deputy, Alexander Skishko, "Serve of the People," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u89	Thank you, 197th District, Alexander Skipper. Please pass the word to Paul Suško.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u90	Please give the word Susko, National Deputy Susko, "Serve of the People."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, honourable deputies, the bill that we are considering had to be considered 16 years ago. For 16 years the authorities of the state border of the State Border Service of Ukraine, i.e. the border forces, were not authorized to carry out operational search activities. What is search-and-research activities for the State Border Protection Authority? It's a search and detection of crimes. Now we have the opportunity to remedy this gap in legislation. The bill provides for the organization of the functions of operational coverage of the state border by implementing the constitutional principle of legal order in Ukraine, according to which body. State bodies carry out their activities in an orderly manner and in a manner established by law. This bill harmonizes with article 41 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which provides for operational units of the Ukrainian State Border Service to carry out investigations and non-public investigation (search) activities under the written commission of the investigator and prosecutor under article 5 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which currently does not cover all the authorities of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Today, 22 foreign troops are the entire area of the border of Ukraine -- not authorized to carry out operational search activities through operational search and execution of criminal conduct orders. I urge you to remove the gaps in legislation and support Bill 2161 as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u92	Thank you. Cosmiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u93	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! This happened, for some reason, when we had not yet had a war, three years before I led this committee, and then when the war started, and, of course, at the border, it began to work and serve the border guards and all of our border services very hard, very hard. So we tried with each other when they came and asked for projects and asked for our increased responsibility there, in the conflict zone, in the war zone, and in some of the border areas, we did it all and we always did it. With great respect to you, in all eight years you have not once asked for amendments to the Operational Search Activities Act. I believe that today, in connection with such appeals, you are not fighting smuggling properly? - so you don't need anything. Today you can have the Crucifixions and, excuse me, and the Crossspirt, and anyone today, any ministry can be given the opportunity to engage in operational and search activities. Unfortunately, there are very few experts in agency-operation, but I think they'll be learning in a little while. I'm proposing three years on the committee, Denis Anatoliyovich knows, the bill is solid, professional, effective at new work in operational research. I believe that introducing this bill and voting will solve all problems, including border issues. It's border patrols today. Because the introduction of this project technically poses many legal problems — the Criminal Code, the CPC, and eight other laws that need to be amended in connection with the introduction of this. this amendment or this change. So our faction is not going to support it, and we're going to suggest it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u95	Thank you. Ariev, "European Solidarity".
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u96	And it's a useful idea, dear colleagues: to allow the border guards to do their search and search. If they had an EDK, then probably these days they wouldn't be going to Kiev Korchevnikov, who is the propagandist of the Kremlin and rewarded by Putin's return medal, let's say, Crimea. And then we wouldn't have any holes to laugh at and say, well, you're fine, but you're letting go of all the Kremlins you want. And that's why I'm confident that as long as I see Bhakano's "catch the devils" as far as I'm concerned, if there was an operational search activity in the border, they wouldn't be excused right now that they didn't know anything about Korchevnik's going to Ukraine. Then let's say yes, we vote yes, but at this point I would like to take this opportunity to address the management of the border services: please be much more careful that Russian propagandones and enemies of Ukraine do not enter here, because then you will be led by ATO veterans who will not suffer the next time that Russian propagandones go unpunished across Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u97	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u98	Out of the way. Good afternoon! Thank you. It's actually very strange that an amendment is made to such a law, and it looks like we actually have a favorite word for co-workers, spam, because it's actually this bill that doesn't actually make any changes, because it states that operational search activities have the right to carry out operational divisions of all the structural elements of the DSS. At a time when all the structural elements of the DSS, according to the DPSO Act, are said to be part of the State Border Protection Unit and so on. an increase in personnel that can perform operational and search activities. In fact, all the border guards are adequate, including those working on the border, very well knows that the previous head of the Cigical State Border Service, who himself is a scout, has actually brought out these operational units from under the command of the troops in view of the fact that this might actually affect the situation with the contractors and so on. So he left them at the regional level. So it's only a matter of comfort for a manager, and I'm surprised we're going back to that and we're actually discussing this in the hall today. Thank you. For smuggling, illegal acts on the border should actually refer to positions of increased responsibility, criminal responsibility for it, not to who more will agree and who is "misleading" more smuggling, regional administration or squad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u99	From Bakumov, Alexander Sergiyovich of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I want to tell you that these changes are usually technical, because our Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has even said that even today, foreign troops have the right to carry out ODS in their departments, but the uncertainty of the legislature. In connection with the confusion, the State Border Protection Authority and the State Border Guard Unit, this uncertainty, it is being interpreted in two ways. And that's why this bill was introduced. Today, the State Border Service of Ukraine is conducting a search and search activity that is appropriate, and some reporters were wrong. This bill does not require amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code, to the Criminal Code, to any law that is valid today, and therefore the same position is wrong. I ask you all not to politicize this moment and make it possible for the authorities of the state border to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of Bill 2161. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Based on what? On the ground and in general not? [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service (Registration No. 2161). Please prepare for the vote. Please be prepared. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:25:22]] For 264 Against - 1, holding - 49. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to shorten the preparation period for the second reading. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am voting on the proposal to reduce half of the time to the second reading of the bill, registration number 2161, to amend the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities to improve the activities of the Ukrainian State Border Service. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:26:20]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I was given the text of the decree. I suggest you don't wait. Dear colleagues, I have a determination in my hands. I propose to put it on the table now, but the text of the decree can be read by the initiators, for example, Rahmanin Sergey Ivanovich. Is that normal? Is Rachmanin in the hall? Is it? Because I can't see. Call me now. Okay. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, you have not yet been offered information on the draft directive on the creation of a temporary special commission. The Committee has not yet been submitted. I'm sorry. Feeding. There is no order, no committee. I am. Then it will be. There's Rachmanin. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Forming and Implementation of State Policy for the Restoration of Territorial Integrity and the Sovereignty of Ukraine (Registration No. 2268). Dear colleagues, we need to involve ourselves. We need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day plenary session of this draft regulation. Ready to vote? I'll bet on the vote on the above question. Please support and vote. [[17:28:28]] For 313 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider. apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. We need 226 votes. Please support and vote. [[17:29:01]] For 304 Decision taken. And there's a proposal to consider the draft of this regulation in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:29:28]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rachmanin, Sergio Ivanovich. And please invite Sergio Vitaliovich, the Kalchenka. Ah, there's Sergey Vitaliovich. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u102	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, the subjects of the legislative initiative are a group of national deputies representing four factions of the Supreme Council: the Voice faction, the Servant of the People faction, the European Solidarity faction and the Fatherland faction came out of a legislative initiative, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution and article 85 of the Ukrainian Rules, the establishment of a temporary special commission for the restoration of territorial integrity and the maintenance of state sovereignty in the temporarily occupied territories. The need for a similar commission was dictated by life itself. Because in fact, if you've been paying attention, the response of society to any movement aimed at further depopulation, the reintegration of temporarily occupied territories, is extremely sensitive to our citizens. According to the Constitution, the Supreme Council is an entity that determines the principles of internal and external politics. The appearance of this commission is not an encroachment on any authority of any of the state authorities or of any of the officials. But the Supreme Council is the very body that is 100 percent elected by the entire people because the factions that are elected to the Supreme Council represent, represent different types of population, different regional groups, different citizens. And so the attempt, and I hope, has succeeded in trying to bring together the efforts of representatives of different political forces, as I think to all the MPs who have joined this initiative, will allow the tension to be removed and the development of a new road map that will remove any questions about even the theoretical possibility of surrendering to the aggressor. So I thank you for your support and thank you to the representatives of all the MP factions and groups that have supported this initiative. I hope that in the very near future we will propose to the Supreme Council a draft regulation that sets out the principles and the list of actions and the order of action to be followed by all officials, all state officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u103	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u104	to prevent any threats that may arise in the process of further depopulation and reintegration of occupied territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u105	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u106	Thank you. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting today, the Regulatory Committee discussed the draft Regulation No. 2268, which proposes the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the formation and implementation of State policy on the restoration of territorial integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine. According to the proposals of the MPs and the MPs, it is envisaged that such a commission be formed in the 12 deputies, including at the proposals of the factions of the People's Party, the Voice, the European Solidarity, the Fatherland and the Deputies Group for the Future. And only from the party's deputy faction "The Opposition Platform for Life" did there not come any proposals for a quantity of personnel stock. The regulatory committee adopted the conclusion of the draft decision. He decided to recommend to Parliament the inclusion in the agenda that had already been done, to consider the bill, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u107	Decision, Sergey Vitaliovich. It's not a bill, it's a decree. Decision, yes. Please sign up for the factions, two-in-a-row, two-in-a-row. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u108	I give the word to Svetoslav Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u109	Svoslav Ivanovich Vakarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u110	Dear National Deputies! I personally want to thank, on my behalf and on behalf of the initiators of the establishment of a temporary special commission, for the understanding of most parliaments, most factions who understand the importance of this question, for thanking the Head of the Supreme Council for its operationality. And a committee of profile for review. And the procedure for dealing with this issue, I would say, priority in this consideration shows that, after all, Parliament feels and understands the seriousness of the situation that has arisen in our society today in relation to the issue of return to temporarily occupied territories, we see that unfortunately, sometimes a balanced and vague position of various responsible people, and, in principle, experts who call themselves experts in this matter, have led to the fact that Ukrainian citizens do not understand the end of our clear position. We would like to assume responsibility as the Supreme Council, which determines the principles of internal and external politics, and this Interim Special Commission to make sure that the question of the return of occupied territories has a clear political vector that is supported by most political forces. I thank you very much for your understanding and I hope now that we will all, as Parliament, support the creation of this Temporary Special Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u111	Thank you. Sergey Vladislavovich, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u112	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction certainly supported the creation of such a commission. I'll explain our logic. Six years of war, think about it, six years of war, six years of occupation of Donbas, annexed to Crimea. In our view, all the plans that are imposed on us from the outside must be what should unite us and there must be our Ukrainian plan for the return of those territories. What does this discussion actually do? I think, first, and the key, the Minsk agreements, the Steinmayer plans, none of the proposals that were echoing resolved any of the key questions: where is the issue of annexed Crimea? Now, any attempt to translate responsibility into predecessors or predecessors to modern leaders is the way to nowhere. As a parliament, we must show the position of a single country, a single nation, and this position must be formed and declared. All attempts to solve a question either security or political in the end must end with one: all of these issues should end with a return of a person, not just a territory. And that's why our faction's position is absolutely clear: without the return of two million migrants, without the return of the property of those people they took, we will never solve the question of security or political. That's what we see in this committee's position. Our voice must be one – it must be the voice of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u113	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. Heroshenko, Heroshchenka. Irina Volodymyrna, I always remember you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u114	I remember you, too, dear Mr. Razumkov, forever. But, dear fellows, you know, in the past, the most difficult and dramatic was to vote on the laws of local self-government on Donbassa: with checkers, with branches. And I remember it just like my colleagues did one of the most dramatic votes. And there was a moment when everyone refused to report this bill and took on this responsibility as the President-in-Office of Peace. And in fact, in the past, in the same way that I initiated, a non-formal Minsk platform was created, thanks to the MPs from the different factions that entered this platform. We were able to draw closer, bring closer our positions on the issue of reintegration, inviting all representatives from Ukraine in the Minsk Group, a tripartite contact group to have full information that is open, not a closed part of the negotiating process, but a key, bringing our positions closer to the drafting of the twin bills. It was then that our platform co-authored important laws, such as humanitarian exchange, such as the Law on the Status of Missing Persons and Their Families, and other bills that actually helped solve the humanitarian problems in Donbas. Obviously, today's degree of debate in society on the subject of war and peace and the lack of acceptance of the possibilities of surrender is forcing us to take a more active stand on this issue. We need to talk today about what the next law will be about the specifics of local self - government. Whether it will be a prolongation of today’s bill, which ends on December 31st, or a new law. We're going to have a very serious conversation with you about transitional justice, and I'm convinced that even in this session room, very few people understand what this is about, what amnesty is about, and what categories might fall under it, and where it can't go. And that's why this committee is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u115	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u116	is very important in the context of bringing our positions together so that they can speak and answer the question of "no surrender" and "to reintegrate."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u117	Thank you. The word is given to Father Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, dear friends! The parliamentary group "For the Future" clearly and unequivocally supports the creation of such a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We think that this commission should not be trivial because it's on time, because we see that in the last few weeks, what's going on in society, what's going on in the street, what's going on near Bank's, on Maidan Independence, what's going on in the district and city centers in Ukraine. There's no dialogue in society, there's no explanatory work in society, there's a Steinmeyer formula that has separated us, and we have to give clear answers to society where we're going. We're underlining it again. Dear friends, it is just as pleasant to note that by creating such a commission, we are actually restoring and restoring the subjectivity of Parliament and parliamentarians in terms of determining the ways of our territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. We're not just talking about the occupied portion of Donbas, we're talking about the occupied part of Crimea. We want to work together with you on those effective steps to reintegrate our territories and territorial integrity, which are the foundation of the consolidation of society and the right steps that will be taken by the President of Ukraine and our external political vendetta in the difficult negotiations and in the norm process and in the mine process. Our parliamentary group "For the Future" is voting in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from groups. From MP factions and groups. Excuse me! Sergey Volodymyrovich, with all due respect, but from the MP factions and groups: two in, two in, two in. A minute from Shahov's motive. You even got the card, you already got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u120	Moved the card. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, in my previous call of three years, I have made sure that someone from Donbas, Luhansk, from Donetskina, will join a group of triangular Minsk, but no one will ever be there. This is a very normal, interesting offer, and we will support the team and all majors. I'll tell everyone, please, we need to support this initiative. But where are the national deputies from Luhansk today? Where is Lukashev today, why not? Why is there no High One? Why is there no Sukhov? Why isn't Shahov back? Are we not from those territories, or were we elected to Parliament? Have not people voted as majors today? I have a district of 700 kilometers with the Russian Federation. My friends, my teachers, and the doctors who saved my life live in that area! Please tell me, don't I know what I'm thinking in that area? Who will speak and communicate there? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, all those who wish to speak. Please prepare for the vote, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the basis and the whole draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Temporary Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Formalization and Implementation. draft Decision establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formation and implementation of the State policy on the restoration of territorial integrity and the safeguarding of the sovereignty of Ukraine (registration No. 2268). Please prepare for the vote. Ruslan Petrovich, I'm sorry, you're very welcome here. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I think you can join this committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] There was a word, there was a word. Dear colleagues, there is, look, there's a project, and then we'll make some changes if necessary. Colleagues, I ask you to support and vote. [[17:46:07]] For 316 Against 0, holding 2. Decision taken. Thank you. Give Gerasimov a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u122	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, first of all, I would like to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for supporting the establishment of this temporary special commission, because this is really an overemphatic issue. Mr. Chairman, today we have another question in the agenda -- regarding the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry to counter the informational influence of the Russian Federation. I would very much like to ask you, we have 14 minutes left before the end of the session, and I would now like to move this question and ask the hall to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, look at the situation. We now have bills on the agenda that should be considered in full procedure. I don't mind if there's support in the room, let's now consider this temporary commission of inquiry. Is there no objection? We may not vote, I think we're moving on to the question. Yeah? Okay. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information about compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is resisted. It is suggested that the draft regulation be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:48:03]] For 264 Dear colleagues, 264. Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasilevska-Smagluk Olga Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u124	Honorable Presidium, Your Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainians! Today, war is not only for the territory of our country but also for the heads and minds of our fellow countrymen. And if a lot of our territory was stolen from us during the time of Janukovich's criminal power, the capture of the information space took place during the post-wrapped days of President Dustenk's time. I'll remind you what it was like. "Telekanal 112" by the 18th year belonged to a person who was profiled with then Home Secretary Fugitive Vitali Zaharchenk. He was a citizen of Andrey Podštipkov. He intended to buy it himself, and even a price of about $20 million was agreed upon. At that time, the owner of the television channel placed the condition that he could not belong to the then authorities, or Dusty. There's even video evidence of President Macar Pasenyuk's people at the time, as well as the citizens of Polishchuk, negotiating the purchase of this channel. But by the 18th year, this television channel was starting to broadcast information about Medvedchuk. This channel has acquired such a citizen as Edward Katz, a mechanic from Germany, and it has become known since then that the TV channel has moved to the hands of our colleague, Mr. Taras Kozak, a member of the Faction of the FRA. As for NewsOne, it belonged to Eugenia Murayev and was transferred to the administration, and then again it was in the hands of Taras Kozak. No less interesting was the ZIK TV channel, which belonged to the fugitive businessman Diminsky, and again suddenly ended up in the hands of a deputy from the OPCW of Taras Kozak. A creative group of television channels.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u125	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u126	Give me more, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u127	I'm sorry, what do you mean you're not finished? Regulation. Thank you, Olga Mikhailina. All of it. Time's up. The word is given for a report to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u128	Honorary Presidium, honourable national deputies, Regulatory Committee on October 9th, discussed the draft Supreme Council Regulation, registration 2152. The project proposes to establish a temporary commission of inquiry to prevent monopolization in the information market and in the television market, to limit the influence of the Russian Federation on information space, to counter national security threats in the area of information space. In paragraph 2 of the draft regulation, the initiators define the main tasks of the commission, such as proposing a legislative solution to the issue of the prohibition of the monopolization of information space. The Committee noted that the drafting of draft laws, other acts of Parliament belonged to the powers of the Committees of the Supreme Council, and if the subject of the legal regulation of such projects did not belong to the subject of committee knowledge, Parliament could decide on the establishment of a temporary special commission. Moreover, with regard to the right of the interim commission of inquiry to initiate the question of the involvement of the guilty persons in the responsibility provided for by legislation, the Committee noted that, according to the Constitution, the principles of civil liability, the activities which are crimes, administrative, disciplinary offences are defined solely by law. The conclusions, the proposals of the interim commission, are not decisive for the authorities that carry out criminal conduct. With regard to proposals for a personal warehouse, there were changes from the previous one to the previous one. during the initiation of the draft decision, and before it was considered by the Committee on Rules of Procedure. On the basis of this, the Regulatory Committee has taken a decision, and recommends to Parliament: first, to adopt the draft regulation on the basis of comments on the tasks proposed to change the composition of this committee, and to adopt it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u129	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Please register: two for, two for factions. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u130	In fact, we thank you very much. One of the parts of the voter's voter turnout program was that with our information broadcast, we have to get order. Now we have facts where the non-working NAZC, the non-working anti-monopoly authorities actually allowed the aggressor country to monopolize through third parties, because of the probably well-founded individuals, a huge part of our information field. And so we welcome the creation of this commission, and we will be as supportive as possible of its non-politicized, consolidated conclusions as a starting point for re-launching the rules in the information field, which will not allow Russian propaganda to dominate the minds of Ukrainians. Thank you. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u131	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u132	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Well, colleagues, it's a historic moment. Now let's figure out who Rabinovich is, let's figure out who's making the information attacks on Ukraine. And since we're going to be represented, all of us directly, I'm stressing this, the factions are objectively MPs. And they say the National Television and Radio Commission doesn't work effectively. We have parliamentary methods, we will objectively evaluate everything, we will work out, we will draw conclusions that will be the basis for making decisions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u133	Fedia Sofia Romanovna, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u134	Fedina Sofia, European Solidarity. Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u135	Please, Irina Heratchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u136	Thank you. You know, your colleagues, as early as May last year, Sister Oleg S. S. Mrs. Natala Kaplan urged all activists, politicians, to boycott certain TV channels, where Oleg and other Kremlin prisoners were called terrorists. I joined our team in the same way. And today, it's very strange to listen to some of the "servants" who create television commissions that they don't come out of. So, you know, think not only about the commissions, but also about whether you can press the green button with one hand, but you can support the ratings of these channels without going out of their studios. It'll be at least fair. Of course, we support everything related to the strengthening of the information security of the state and believe that very little attention is given to this issue in this session hall. Our colleagues have told us today that for the first time in years, Russian propagandists wander the streets of Kiev, which in their airs did not just justify the annexation of Crimea and Donbas. And you know, it's the same thing that the authorities wanted to pay attention to. We have delegated to the commission, which will be created, our representatives. But we have to note with amazement that during the presentation of this idea, a reporter, you know, once again, mentioned Peter Prashenko in the question that he wanted to buy some TV channels there. I want to remind you that Peter Poroshenko is not hiding, and it's very important that there's a transparent property that he owns 5 channels, and there's no other media. And I think it's very important for us to talk about property transparency and that's true of all the channels in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u137	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u138	Please give the word to Zagradnoi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u139	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished Presidium, distinguished colleagues! Today, it is proposed to create a temporary commission of inquiry that will become a tool for repressive pressure and the fight against independent media. In order to avoid speculation, right away, the Opposition Platform for Life faction supports the work of the interim commission of inquiry, but we believe that the TSC should be a mechanism of control by the opposition, not the pressure on the opposition. The authorities today have sufficient authority to carry out investigations. In particular, the Ukrainian Security Service is already investigating the acquisition of a 112-Ukrainian TV channel. What, then, is this TSC for? The answer is obvious. As if investigating compliance with the requirements of legislation while changing the owners of television channels is trying to create a body that will serve the political interests of the President’s team. The National MP Vassilevska-Smagluk, who is the author of this ruling, stated directly at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, allowing me to read her words: "We would like to help the President of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine fully and under the control of the National Deputies to investigate these issues." Mrs. Vasilevska-Smagluk, I am sure the President will appreciate your help. And even more, your help will be appreciated by the mediumamagnat Colomaski, in whose interests you are clearing the media field. And these are not vocal accusations, because a number of crimes were committed in the creation of the TSC. First. Vasilevska-Smagluk faked the draft ruling by making known false information. She willingly identified herself as the head of the TSC and as a member of the commission without filing a faction. Secondly, there's a direct conflict of interest here because Vasilevska-Smagluk worked on channel 1+1. This is a violation of article 85, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Rules. We have no doubt that this decree is of an orderly nature, politically motivated and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing our meeting for 15 minutes, pending consideration of the matter. Sergey Vladislavovich, a minute of motivation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask that this commission should not lead to what the work of the commission in the previous assembly of Parliament has ended. It's not a long story. Just one month before the change of owners of a number of channels in Ukraine, a commission was set up to authorize the RNA, the Head of the RNA - Mr. Poshenko, the Secretary of the RNA, Mr. Turchinov, who were to investigate whether or not Russian ownership was in the entire series of channels. How did this end? The cost of the canals fell at a time and new owners quickly bought the canals. I have one wish: don't fight journalists, because they shouldn't do anything if the commission's task is to investigate the Russian trail, if the commission's task is to investigate the real intervention of the Russian Federation through owners, it's a sacred cause.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u142	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u143	Thank you. It is a sacred work and must be done immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for speeches is up, we go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we will have to vote twice: for the first time, we vote on the basis, and for the second time, we vote on the Committee's proposals and the necessary technical and legal rights. Honorary colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft decree establishing an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation (registration 2152) is resisted. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:02:37]] For 270. Decision taken. Decision taken as a basis. Dear colleagues. The factions? Let's see the factions. "People's Servant" – 223, "The Opposition Platform for Life" – 0, "European Solidarity" – 10, "Fatherhood" – 10, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 19, "non-fractional" – 7. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a whole, taking into account the Committee's proposal and the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to conduct an investigation into compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is resisted (Registration No. 2152). Yes, they are. In stock, give me a minute with Calchenk's motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u145	Given that, after the initial proposals from the faction of the political party, "The Servant of the People" had been changed in the personal composition, it was the committee that invited Parliament to first accept it as a basis, and then to take into account the proposed changes in the composition of the committee and the tasks to be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u146	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, I have a request to be more careful because Sergey Vitaliyovich spoke about this during his report as head of the committee. I'll bet you a vote. Please support and vote. [[18:04:31]] For 278 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party – 229, Opposition Platform – Life 0, European Solidarity – 9, Fatherhood – 9, Future – 1, Voice – 19, non-fractional – 11. Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start work at 10 a.m. We have an hour of questions to the government, and we're looking at the budget for 2020 in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-17-m1.u147	We don't forget to take our cards.
