ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow national MPs, guests and guests! I'm asking you to take up your jobs in the hall. In connection with the fifth anniversary of the beginning of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine, Ukrainian President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, President of the European Council Donald Tusk. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Let us welcome the President of Ukraine and the President of the European Council. Welcome! [[Applause]] The National Deputys of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman, members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Sandra Kalniete, Ambassador of the European Union in Ukraine Hugh Mingarelli, representative of Ukraine in the Tripartite Contact Group on the settlement of the situation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, deputy of the Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania Emmanuelis Zingeris, head of the Canadian Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group Boris Wrzesniewski, Head of the Security Service of the Parliament of the State of Poland, Basil Sérgiowiovich Gritsak, Head of the Foreign Intelligence Service of the Republic of Ukraine and of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine of Ukraine, Jehor Valeriovich Bozok. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Welcome! [[Applause]] Representatives of public organizations and the media are also present. Honourable National Deputies, distinguished guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare open in connection with the fifth anniversary of the beginning of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, it has been five years since the Russian Federation, in disregard of all international law, the UN Statute, the Helsinki Final Act and the Budapest Memorandum of Bilateral Ukrainian-Russian Treaties, carried out an act of military aggression against the sovereign neighbouring state. Russia illegally annexed part of the Ukrainian territory, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. The Russian occupying forces invaded Ukraine and occupied certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, and over the years they have carried out constant armed attacks against Ukraine. In the face of severe losses, thanks to the unprecedented self-organization of the Ukrainian people, the incredible heroism of our volunteers and the military on the front, the bravery and self-devotion of volunteers, we have endured national patriotism. In fact, the work of the executive head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the acting President of Ukraine, Alexander Turkinov, was immediately set up. Despite Russia’s fierce opposition and its agencies, elections were held in Ukraine for the President, for Parliament, for local self-government bodies, which were recognized by all observers from countries of the free world as honest and transparent. The new, post-revolutionary, Ukrainian authorities reformed the law enforcement system and actually re-created the fighting forces of Ukraine. The governments of Arsenius Yatsenuk and then Vladimir Groysman introduced reforms that were resuscitating the Ukrainian economy and allowing them to gradually raise social standards. Ukraine’s newly elected President, Peter Poshenko, has done his duties as High Commander and Head of State in a good way, and the enemy’s attack has been halted, and Ukraine has received effective international support. Five years ago, we Ukrainians defended our country and stopped the enemy first in Midan and then in the east of our country. But to this day in Donbas, Russian invaders continue to fire and kill people, both military and civilian. So I ask all in attendance to honor the moment of silence of our heroes, who died in Maidan five years ago and who died in the struggle for our country’s independence during those five years. [[A Minute of Silence]] . Thank you. Convinced that all who are behind crimes against humanity and international law must inevitably face a just punishment that will be a warning to any maniac who has been given power so that the citizens of our free countries can live again in peace and security. Dear colleagues, we are now able to discuss openly what we have done in five years of Russian aggression against Ukraine and what we can and should do to ensure that the aggressor is stopped, held accountable and paid full for all his crimes. We have to win to have peace. I invite you to the floor of the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. Let's say hello to him, colleagues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u4	Mr. Head, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies, dear Ukrainian friends! [[Applause]] I came to you on the fifth anniversary of the Maydan Dramatic Events, the anniversary of the Dignity Revolution, to thank all the Ukrainians and their supporters gathered here, regardless of party differences, differences of interests, and ideological disputes. I came as President of the European Council, but also as a Polish, your closest neighbor and a loving and kind friend. [[Applause]] First of all, I want to thank you for your resilience. You have stood in the most difficult moment of your history. You will stand up and remain proud and unbreakable in spite of the evil intentions of the aggressive neighbor and despite the indifference and hypocrisy of many influential players in the world’s political scene. You have resisted, even though your mate is always helping you in the right way. I know this well, as probably few others do, from the personal experience and experience of the Polish people. I know that feelings of loneliness in times of danger can be worse than an enemy’s attack. I can still hear the words of Galina Crook, written in those dramatic February days: All of us, Europe, are so deeply concerned that some have even been killed. The purest of the tubers, Don't let the harshness of this place crush your citizens. Some of our people will never see you with their own eyes. You have something with your eyesight, too, Europe, you can't stand to see the broken eyes and the gunshot wounds. Some won't be able to do it, Europe, don't get angry, not even give you your hands. [[Except for the prosthetics.]] , Even touching the culture of your past years. Guard your limits, Europe, so that you don't get touched all of a sudden, Listen, every fireman, or we're yelling from the punches of the examples, the army boots and the kicks. But many of us heard your screams, listened to it, and understood, even if it took some time. So today, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I can repeat to you not only on my behalf, but also on behalf of the entire European Union: we are with you and we want to continue to help you. [[Applause]] This is where I want to reaffirm once again the first words of the Association Agreement: “The European Union recognises Ukraine’s European aspirations and welcomes its European choice”. [[Applause]] I would like to reiterate that Europe never recognizes the Russian annexation of Crimea and will not give up sanctions until Russia fulfils its obligations. [[Applause]] Nor will the European Union accept any act of violence in the Azov Sea. I will do everything I can to ensure that the European Union remains unique in this regard. Secondly, I want to thank you for your courage. The boys from the Celestial 100 entered the pantheon not only of Ukrainians but also of European heroes. [[Applause]] I swear to all mothers who are lying. Europe will always remember your sons! The lesson of courage that you gave to the world in February, five years ago, changed us all. Ukraine has shown that it is worth being courageous and dignified, that good can overcome evil, that heroism can be more than a moral call, that it can be the key to victory. You have given the greatest gift to many in the east, to those who are humiliated, and to those who are enslaved: The hope that the day of victory will come for them, too, today. The eternal motto of my hometown of Gdańsk is "Nec temere nec time". [[With courage and soundness of mind]] Then the most powerful, and thirdly, thank you for your reasonableness and for your romanticism being strengthened by good pragmatism, that your struggle for Ukraine's independence and integrity is not only heroic resistance to aggression, but also systematic reform of your state, economic reconstruction and thoughtful, reasonable and consistent diplomacy. When you have to -- heroes, when you need to -- pragmatists who hold fast to the ground, that's how the world sees you today. Fourthly, I want to thank you for your Europeanism. I will always remember the blue flags with the golden stars in Krestatika during the revolution and the “Od of Joy” that floated all over Ukraine. I often tell my colleagues in Brussels, "Don't teach them to be Europe, learn from them what Europe is." [[Applause]] Let me now repeat the words I used to address the leaders of the European Union: "Only one who is in solidarity with Ukraine has the right to be called a European". [[Applause]] Whoever's willing to sell Ukraine sells the future of Europe. [[Applause]] It is no coincidence that politicians who question European integration often resort to questions about Ukraine’s integrity. Tell me what you think about Ukraine, and I'll know what you think about Europe. [[Applause]] When we Poles began our journey to Europe, Pope John Paul II told the world: “There is no just Europe without an independent Poland.” Here and now I want to say that there is no just Europe without an independent Ukraine. [[Applause]] There is no safe Europe without a safe Ukraine. More simply, there is no Europe without Ukraine. [[Applause]] Thanks again for everything. But as your friend, I have the privilege of expressing a few thoughts. God forbid, I don't want to teach you, because I know you have enough wiseguys who think they know better than you what Ukraine should look like. No one has the right to teach their masters how to set up their own home. I share this and I have no intention of interfering with the work, but you may accept my advice because it comes from the heart. I have five. First advice. Do not overinjure each other in the next election. Your story, like the history of my people, claims that internal conflicts in our two countries are the greatest gift for a third party. Remember, too, that your opponents in Europe are waiting for any reason to corrupt today's solidarity between Brussels and Kiev, and that is exactly the reason why you may have a violent conflict. So argue to the extent possible and remain the only ones in matters that matter most to Ukraine. Second advice. Carefully avoid the temptations of radical nationalism and populism, as you have done so far. [[Applause]] If we succumb to the resurgences of chauvinism in both Europe and Ukraine, we will inevitably get into conflict and selfishness will destroy our political community. The answer to nationalism is usually another nationalism with consequences that are easy to predict. The foundation of a united Europe is reconciliation instead of rematchism, solidarity instead of selfishness, historical truth instead of propaganda. The dangerous temptations of radical population are born of complexes and weaknesses, and Ukrainians have every right and reason to feel proud and strong today. Ukraine is too large to need populism for greatness. The third advice. Don't imitate those neighbours and those European politicians who want to convince everyone that democracy, based on freedom, human rights, respect for minorities, freedom of thought and words, is a survival of the past, that it's an outdated model of state, and now it's the time of authoritarian democracy. In the interests of our citizens and Europe as a whole, we must protect fundamental values. That is why the heroes of the Dignity Revolution died. The fourth advice. Build a good state together. I'm not going to be here to lecture on corruption. You've all recently shown that you're ready to fight it. I'm just asking everyone to believe that honesty and transparency of authority are needed, not because it is a requirement of the European Union, but because your citizens need it. [[Applause]] Do not stop making positive changes, even if they are painful to someone. Fifth, final counsel. Believe in your youth. [[Applause]] A few days ago, I received a group of students in Brussels, including Ukrainians. They asked you to know that their generation is ready to take on the responsibility for Ukraine’s future. Actually, they are the future. Five years ago, young Ukrainians passed the exam, and some paid the highest price. If they believe in themselves today, you too can believe in them. Long live the memory of the heroes of your history! Long live a solid and united Europe! Long live an independent and compalding Ukraine! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. President, for your excellent performance, and for your presentation in English. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u6	Dear Mr. President Poroshenko, Mr. President of the Tusk European Council, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests! The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andri Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Andrey. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u7	Mr. President of the European Council! Your Honour, Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation for the Return of Crimea kicked off its date – February 20, 2014. Just five years ago, when the barricades burned at the Institute and Gruszewski, when we defended Midan, the Russian Special Forces began an operation to capture Ukraine. Russia took advantage of the weakness of a country abandoned by all power, shocked by the shootings of Midan, and began armed aggression. Next, Putin had long denied the participation of Russian troops in events in Crimea and in Donbas. However, that medal, which would eventually become one of the indisputable evidences at The Hague, was struck on February 20, 2014. That's how the war started. No one knew what was possible. Ukraine was not ready for armed aggression, and today we can accept it openly and responsibly. Putin had everything he needed in full combat for the attack and destruction of Ukraine: one of the world's most powerful armies, at that time re-arranged and rebuilt from the defensive to the forward; the puppet Yanukovich, who obediently followed all the direction of the Kremlin and even signed a request for the entry into Ukraine of the occupying Russian forces; the developed FSB network in Ukrainian special services and in an army that purposefully destroyed both the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ukrainian Security Service; and the years infected and poisoned by Russian and pro-Russian television; the consciousness of a large part of Ukrainian citizens -- victims of mass and prolonged information shelling and the subversive criminal tactics of the hybrid highway war. Putin personally sounded this tactic: "The rifle will try to shoot one of the soldiers at their men, behind whom we will stand behind. It's not the front. It's the back. Let them try shooting women and children. I will look at those who will give such an order in Ukraine.” This is a direct quote from the criminal. To this end, the Ukrainian army was not ready. And finally, at that point, we had: a looted, disorganized and demoralized army, soldiers and officers whose years of deliberate stereotyping were that Russia is our friend and ally, and NATO is our opponent; filled with hostile agencies and random enforcers with demoralized intelligence and law enforcement agencies; the actual absence of power -- in a critical, borderline moment for Ukraine and the President, and the Prime Minister, all the leaders of the force forces and most ministers just fled from Ukraine to Russia; a completely empty state treasury and a ruined economy, and many other related destructive factors. At that time, Russian troops were stationed in all the borders of Ukraine in full combat readiness and deployed in combat for immediate attack. Any military strategist would say we don't stand a chance. And yet our asset was: our victory of the Dignity Revolution; the indestructible spirit of the will of the Ukrainian people; the incorruptibility and courage of Ukrainians, mobilized and self-organized by Maidan. And we took the fight. Then, just from Maidan, we came to this hall. There are many deputies here who remember that day when a new Ukrainian authority was formed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament assumed responsibility for the country’s fate. After the ice and fire of Maidan, we took up the organization of resistance to Russian aggression. And then we said, we're not going to give up, we're going to fight, we're going to protect our country. So in 2014, five years ago, the war with the Russian aggressor began our new struggle for independence. And we knew for certain that it was not just for Ukraine, for the lives, freedom and dignity of the Ukrainians. We knew it was a war in the whole free world. Let's be honest: in those weeks, the civilised democracies of the West were numb, not knowing how to react to Russia's aggression in Ukraine, how to respond to the brutal disregard of Putin's international legal norms and signed agreements. Although what we warned about actually happened back in 2008, when Russian tanks invaded the territory of sovereign Georgia. In those August days, I was in Georgia, in the Mountain, and I saw with my own eyes the consequences of the atrocities of the Russian army. I can assure you that if the world had given an adequate response to Russia, Putin would not have dared to take the next step. That year, 2008, he brought Russian invaders to Ukraine in 2014. Because to understand Putin’s true plans, it is enough to listen to him, for he called the collapse of the Soviet Union the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century and the event that had the greatest impact on him personally. Undoubtedly, the main geopolitical objective of the Kremlin is to restore full control over all post - Soviet space and to have a direct impact on the world. By 2008, the goal of Putin was by no means Georgia, which was confirmed by further steps. It was his first test stone to test the civilized free world for farsightedness, strength, and unity. So in 2014, not only was it intended to capture the Crimea, but the whole of Ukraine was a key element in restoring the empire. Key, but not the last. So our boys and girls on the front know that they are not just protecting their families, their cities, and their villages, their country. They well know that they are protecting the entire civilized world. Dear European friends! They protect the security of both your countries and your citizens! And today the whole world understands that. Putin is a global threat to the world. Who doesn't want to understand who's afraid to admit it, actually invites "Russian peace" and "green men" to their homes. Because experience has already shown that any diplomacy and desire to agree on Putin is seen as a weakness that he is striving to use for his own benefit. The Kremlin only understands one language, the language of power. Unfortunately, that's the reality. So for the sake of the well-being and security of the whole free world, our mission and our main goal is to stop Putin. Five years ago, in 2014, we realized this clearly and clearly in this room. We knew the real purpose of Putin. We knew that his goal was not just Crimea and Donbas, but control over all of Ukraine. Operation Russian Spring, the occupation of so-called Novorosia all the way to Transnistria, was to become the next steps out of Ukraine’s capture. But the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian people, mobilized for secession, not for an agreement, but essentially for surrender. We've got a fight! Ukrainian volunteers just left Maidan, and there, along with the reborn Armed Forces of Ukraine, stopped the Russian offensive. In Kharkiv, Zaporozhye, Mikolayev, Hersons, Odessa, the Ukrainians said stop trying to set the Russian agency on fire with their local collaborators, and then occupy the entire southeast Ukraine. These were tragic but also glorious days for Ukraine! We've had a Russian attack. We broke Putin's plans. I will never forget the day when I had the honour of being the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine to be present at the ATO headquarters under Slaviansk when the Supreme Commander, President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, ordered a counterattack. Thus began the Ukrainian counterattack, which resulted in the release of two thirds of the occupied territory of Donbas, and only the massive reinforcement of the Russian military contingent by elite military connections prevented us from releasing Doneck and Lugansk. But we learned two things. The first is the Putin can be won, and the second is the Putin must be won. [[Applause]] I am deeply convinced that all those who say Putin is a great force to be reckoned with, that the Kremlin needs to negotiate, study their terms, compromises and concessions, are only playing in Moscow's hand. In five years, the world has been able to finally see to the aggressive plans and global threat of Putin: MN-17, Syria, Solsbury, intervention in elections in the United States, Montenegro and other countries, support for terrorists and separatists, inspiration and financing of extreme extremist movements around the world -- what further obvious evidence is needed? The answer is: Either the world will stop Putin, or the consequences of his actions can become unpredictable, and if openly tragic, destructive to the whole world. Today, five years from the start of Russia’s attack on Ukraine, it is obvious that Putin’s aggression must be halted not only by the imposition of sanctions but by the organization of a single integrative opposition in all directions: military, economic, energy, information, diplomatic. Because Russian aggression today is also an information and energy expansion. First, there's a long-range art preparation of informational "bukes" and "cities" and then there's Russian tanks. Our main task is to stop Putin and keep the peace. Peace for our country and for the world! How we yearn for peace because we know its value! Ukraine has chosen its path. This is the path of dignity, democracy and development, the way of building strong security and prosperity for citizens. Our path is to the European Union and NATO. And we won't let anyone take us back from the path Midan fought for! This is our future now protected by the better sons and daughters of Ukraine! They know that it takes will and courage to follow their own course. So we say to the whole world: Do not be afraid! Imperial, aggressive Russia Putin is actually a colossus on clay legs, it's a state that ends, ending state! It is we who are building the future! We're together! We're strong! And we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Mr. Head. [[Video broadcast. Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u9	Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman is invited to attend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u10	After these shots, I think in the eyes of each of us, tears are caused by that tragedy and terrible loss, and on the other hand, by the tears of pride and joy that we have endured. Mr. President Tusk! Mr. President, Mr. Peter Alexiovich! Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs, ministers! Dear Ukrainians! We are experiencing a very difficult time of independence. By 2014, Ukraine had been in absolute colonial dependence on the Russian Federation. Russia has a very painful idea of rebuilding the Soviet Union. To implement this idea, they needed a weak, corrupt, and corrupt Ukraine. Unfortunately, by 2014, because of the weaknesses of politicians, because of the weakness of our political elites, they sometimes achieved their goals. In 2014, we were too weak, but we were strong in our idea of an independent, strong, democratic state. And at the same time that the Ukrainians raised their national flag and talked about our own thought, our own idea, our own purpose and purpose, and our heart and mind are lying in a united Europe, we started to use weapons against us, first in the center of the Ukrainian capital, then in the eastern borders of our state and in the annexed Crimea. Our answer must be the only: we must make all the necessary changes within the country in order to be strong and full members of the European Union. [[Applause]] We must strive for high European standards of living to penetrate every aspect of our country’s life. Over the past five years, we have had a rather complex way of making needed changes and reforms. Maybe some people speculate on this, saying that he doesn't notice it, but we can't help but notice the new, updated and strong army of Ukraine, not notice that we're moving to the restoration of the national economy, going to new markets, changing many spheres of life, which result in a completely new quality. To do that, we need a consolidated and common position. Today, on another occasion, I want to thank every hero of our state who has taken a stand, made a decision for himself and put the state above his own interests, all the families who have lost and continue to lose our warriors, every Ukrainian who has stood and demonstrated the unity and strength of our nation. I am deeply convinced that our future is in a united Europe. I believe in European Ukraine, I believe in our independence and as a Ukrainian citizen, as Prime Minister, I will do everything I can to make Ukraine finally a strong European and prosperous state. We have to do this together. So I wish us success on this path, and we will surely win, and victory will follow us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u11	Thank you. The President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is invited to attend. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u12	Mr. President of the European Council, a great friend of Ukraine, Mr. Donald Tusk! Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dear Mr. Prime Minister! Honorable Members of the Ukrainian Government! Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved foreign friends who have stood side by side for five years with Ukraine, protecting global security, sovereignty, territorial integrity and Ukraine's independence! Dear Ukrainian military, elite nations present in this Hall! [[Applause]] Dear compatriots! Burning Midan, the first dead, waiting for a new storm. Five years ago, February 19, after the February 18 tragedy right here in the Constitution Square, in the Marian Park, the first were shot, and none of us knew what was going to happen tomorrow, but everyone, I emphasize, was ready to stand to the end. And tomorrow, February 20, there was a mass shooting of the Celestial 100, and tomorrow, February 20, Russian aggression began. This was the date the Kremlin scratched on medals that were handed over to Russian invaders and collaborators who captured Crimea. The killing of the Celestial 100 heroes was the beginning of the bloody war that Russia waged against Ukraine. Why was this done? Today, everyone understands clearly: for the restoration of the empire, for the review of borders and, finally, for the destruction of the entire system of transatlantic security of Europe and the world, for the destruction of the post-war security system based on the United Nations Security Council and the unity of all five permanent members of the Security Council. It cannot work when one of the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council is an aggressor country. And the collective security system was destroyed. Anexia Crimea, the occupation of part of Donbas has become a prelude to Moscow’s hybrid war not only against Ukraine. Mr. President rightly pointed out today: Moscow's hybrid war against the European Union, against Poland, against the United States, against NATO, against the Baltic countries, and finally against the entire democratic, civilized world. The heroes of Maidan, the Ukrainian soldiers, all the patriots, in protecting Ukraine, I want to stress this separately, defend and defend the eastern borders of Europe from an invasion that threatens the destruction of freedom, the destruction of democracy, the destruction of the rule of law and the destruction of, after all, respect for human dignity. Moscow started this war because here, in Kiev, on the European Maidan of Independence, Moscow lost a civil battle for Ukraine. [[Applause]] The blitzkrieg that Moscow was counting on collapsed. Plans to disperse, tear apart, and destroy our nation have failed. I want to remind you that a very high price has been paid. Now Putin understands very well that the loss of Ukraine means the collapse of his plans to restore the empire and restore Russia to the status of superstate. They can't do it economically, because their economy is far beyond efficient countries, so the stakes are now too high in this war. And I emphasize, not just Ukraine, not so much. The dream of Putina is no longer a divided Ukraine, but a divided Europe. Putina’s dream is a Europe that has renounced its values. Putin's dream is a weakened Europe to which he dictates conditions. Putina's dream is a belt of dependent satellite states whose sovereignty is essentially nominal, and the examples of these countries are very well known. No doubt in this war, I mean, the Kremlin is doomed to defeat. [[Applause]] I emphasize that in five years he was unable to reach any of his goals in Ukraine. Tactically, my friends, we've already won. When will we attain strategic and final victory? The answer depends on our unity. We need to learn very well the lessons of history, 1918-1921. The victory in this war depends on our determination with you and on the unity and determination of the international coalition that we have created to support Ukraine with the help of our friends. I would like to point out that the role of the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, is outstanding. [[Applause]] Remember his words, which were just from this rostrum: “There can be no safe and democratic Europe without Ukraine”. [[Applause]] These are the words of the leader of the European Union to skeptics, some of whom are sitting in this room, and some radophiles are running on television and say, "Never will Ukraine be admitted to the European Union. She will never be a NATO member." My friends, I emphasize, and they will receive, and they will be. [[Applause]] Although no European and Euro-Atlantic choices were ever as expensive as Ukraine. [[I'm sorry, it's also true.]] Never and no one has paid such great sacrifices for this choice. We should always keep in mind that we live in an unpaid debt to our heroes. And this debt will move us to do everything we can to ensure that their struggle will not be in vain and that no one, nothing, will ever bring us back into the bonds of Moscow. Now it's a very popular phrase that Rubicon has crossed. I would point out that he will never be crossed. We must always fight for our civilizational choice, for the return of Ukraine to the family of the European peoples. [[Applause]] Just as the Ukrainians struggled for 300 years to remove the Moscow yoke from the Ukrainian Church, so we must be prepared for 300 years not to return the status of the colony to Ukraine, let them choose either the Russian Empire or the Soviet Union. We'll never let that happen! [[Applause]] The days that mark the anniversary of the Mayan shootings, everyone understands that it is psychologically difficult for each of us. For me personally, these are days of hard memories and painful experiences. These are the days of deeper self-criticism, a careful analysis of what has been done, and especially the analysis of what has not been done. These are days of deliberate work on mistakes and careful consideration of further steps. Of course, there are many claims that I accept, and mistakes, I admit, have also been made, but the fact that in five difficult years our authority has not deviated from the European, Euro-Atlantic strategy remains a fact. We were consistent, and no one could lead us out of the way. The elements of our strategy are the Association Agreement with the European Union, including a deeper and inclusive area of free trade. The elements of our strategy are a visa-free regime. The elements of our strategy are to turn the European Union into the most powerful trading partner who helped us by opening the door and reaching out for help, by surviving the consequences of the Russian economic blockade and the crisis it caused. The elements of our strategy are the gradual transfer of the entire security block into NATO standards. Work did not even start in the defence and security sector in 2014. The law prohibited NATO representatives from entering, opening doors to the General Staff or to the Ministry of Defence. And you, the national MPs who are in this room, remember that one of the first initiatives in June-July was to undo this stupidity of our legislation. Before joining the EU, we still belong to the North Atlantic Alliance, and we all understand this very clearly, to take a very long and long road: to overcome poverty, to achieve membership criteria, to do our difficult homework. But I would like to point out that we have already achieved an unprecedented rapprochement with Europe throughout our history (never has the President of the European Council spoken Ukrainian with such a European optimism, which is lacking by some of our deputies), not just a political union, not just an economic one, but a cultural and humanitarian one. [[Applause]] Aviation and rail routes, including Loucostres, tourist flows, geography of schools where young people are going, all of this demonstrates the tectonic scale of change, the full orientation of Ukraine from Russia to the European Union. And in this context, the changes to the Constitution that secure power oblige it to do its utmost to achieve the membership of Ukraine in the EU and NATO is a perfectly logical and intermediate summary of what we have done in five years. But I would stress that this is also a guarantee, and insurance for the future. I still had no doubt about her need, and with the start of the election campaign, I became even more convinced of our rightfulness. He was not lazy about studying the candidates' programmes and, surprisingly, he did not find in most of them a point on NATO membership, a point on membership in the European Union. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Another program suggests that the issue of NATO membership or other security associations be resolved in a referendum. It is only one thing, and the name of this union, if anyone does not know, is NATO. The Tashkent Pact is controlled by Russian Genstaba, the Collective Security Treaty Organization. Maybe they're talking about her. What other security associations? Let's not let that happen. Let's not. Of course, there is also a fifth column that has again brought God’s world under the Kremlin’s dictatorship and has included in its program a sad overblock that has already cost us Crimea and parts of Donbas. Let me remind you, aggression began just when Ukraine had an off-block status. And the scariest thing that ever cost us was thousands of lives. 2 thousand 949 soldiers have given their lives to allow us to change the state. And we're not gonna waste that chance. So we see that the changes to the Constitution that give our European and Euro-Atlantic integration the power of the Basic Law are absolutely and absolutely not unnecessary. True, they are willing to change the entire Constitution in an anti-constitutional way, around the Supreme Council. There is no place in their concept of NATO and the European Union either. But I am convinced that in Ukraine they have already formed and will work effectively to protect the mechanisms of democracy that will stop this attempt. [[Applause]] My strategic mission is to guarantee the irreversibility of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. No later than 2023, applying for membership in the European Union and getting the NATO Membership Action Plan is our joint task. [[Applause]] But in carrying out this mission, I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine, including its new standards, which I propose to sign right here. [[Applause]] Guys, today we're not going to look at Russia, we're not going to ask permission to putin where we're going next. We're going our own way. We ourselves make decisions about how to ensure our own security, sovereignty, and territorial integrity. Ten years ago, the absence of a single line of President, Parliament, the government of Ukraine lost the opportunity to obtain VAT. Today, I stress separately the position of the head of state, the position of the Cabinet of Ministers, the position of leadership of the Parliament and the Parliament of Ukraine is unanimous. I thank you all very much for that. [[Applause]] This is evidenced by 334 voices, even saying that 335 — perhaps even 336, for, as always, someone had failed to write the application. But let's say there are 334 votes, a convincing majority, that are presented for changes to the Constitution. Once again, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the people’s deputies. I would like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Andria Parobia and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Volodymyr Groysman, in the presence of the President of the European Council, one of the European Union's chiefs, Mr. Donald Tusk's friend, to testify to the unity of all branches of power in the matter of European and Euro-Atlantic integration. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Head! [[Applause]] Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u13	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Let me thank the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, the President of Ukraine, Petr Alexiyyovich Prashenko, and Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyr Borisovich Groissman, for participating in our meeting. Let's thank you, colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I give the floor to Deputy Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Sergio Bessarabu. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u14	The Grand Head of the Supreme Council! Dear members of the government! Remarkable national MPs and present! For five years, our people have reflected the Russian armed aggression that is intended to destroy Ukraine as an independent and sovereign state. In the vanguard of this future Ukraine and Europe, the Armed Forces stand. They were and remain the main force behind the deterrence of the Russian aggressor, as the army allows the solution of the armed conflict to be brought to a diplomatic plane and provides the state authority with conditions for the necessary reforms within the country. This was achieved at an extremely high price, since the Mexican Russia, the former pro-Russian president and government in Ukraine, had been preparing all-out aggression against our nation for years, first destroying the army. In particular, the negative effects of such criminal acts have affected Ukraine’s defence potential and the security of our Armed Forces. So with the beginning of the Russian occupation of Crimea and the armed invasion of Donbas, the Armed Forces had a balanced system of military administration, a lack of staff and material and technical security, a catastrophic state of armament and military technology. The number of combat troops at the time was extremely limited, for example, only eight battalions, three aircraft squadrons and eight ships totalling about 5,000 military personnel. Even under such incredibly difficult conditions, however, based on the comprehensive moral and material support of the entire Ukrainian people, such as volunteering, the Ukrainian Armed Forces were able to deploy in a very short time a force of up to 55,000 personnel of the land component, the base of which was the air traffic unit and the participation of Air Force personnel. In doing so, we broke the Kremlin’s presumptuous plans for the destruction of Ukraine and gave a worthy reprisal to the enemy. The high intensity of fighting in the summer of 2014 is strongly demonstrated by the figures. Yes, more than 40 operations were planned and conducted from May 5 to September 5. They resulted in the release of 70 percent of the territories of Lugansk and Donetsk, occupied by Russian aggressors, which enabled residents of more than 200 Donbassu population to return to peaceful life. This was made possible by the courage, courage and heroism of the Ukrainian military, as well as of the volunteer soldiers who formed the war core of the Armed Forces and other military formations. In the pit of fierce fighting with the Russian aggressor, the fighting spirit of the new Ukrainian army was reborn, the foundation of which was national identity. Thanks to the consolidated support of international partners, the country’s integrated and targeted leadership, in particular the legislative initiatives of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, reformed the military administration, military training and universal security system, which are gradually becoming compatible with the armies of NATO countries. In the face of Russian aggression, 29 new battle brigades and regiments were formed. There's been an update of a particular line of troops -- the Air Force. A particular kind of force was created, the Force of Special Operations. The territorial defence system has also been reformed. A powerful operational reserve has been created, including more than 198,000 reserve personnel experienced in the area of combat. At present, there are about 2.5 thousand new or modern weapons and military equipment that have been systematically deployed, and over 16,000 weapons and military equipment have been restored. Above all, the Armed Forces have received the only successful combat experience in the West against Russian armed aggression. It came at an extremely expensive price. It is only natural, therefore, that generals and officers of the brigades, sectors, armed groups in the area of antiterrorist operations and operations of the United Nations are now appointed to lead the military administrations at the strategic level. Of course, the measures I have listed are only part of the massive transformations that are being carried out in the Armed Forces today to strengthen their fighting potential. This is an objective time requirement. After all, the Russian Federation does not for a moment stop the formation in Crimea and near the state border with Ukraine of new compounds, connections, and military units. And the occupation forces on Donbassa are directly managed, provided and deployed by the Russian army. In addition, Russia is attempting to violate international law by establishing full military control over the Azov and Black Sea waters. In such a situation, it is vital for society to have a clear understanding that in the context of the war of a hybrid type solved by Russia, it will be extremely difficult to endure only by military force without the consolidation of the nation around the idea of victory over the enemy. On this issue, we, the military, greatly appreciate the support of the President, the government and the parliament’s deputies, our foreign partners, who are particularly attentive to solving the challenges of strengthening the defence capacity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In accordance with the Constitution, the Basic Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u15	Mr. Sergio, you have 30 seconds to complete, because we have a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u16	The defense and protection of Ukraine's sovereignty, territorial integrity, rests on the Armed Forces. The ability to perform these tasks depends directly on who and how the country’s national defence will be conducted. The Armed Forces will do their utmost to ensure that Ukraine’s future is safe and independent. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u17	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Once again, we thank the Ukrainian Armed Forces for their great work in protecting Ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. Dear colleagues, we are in the House of Parliament, the Rules always work here, and we still have a large list of those who will speak today from the Supreme Council's rostrum. I want to inform you that there are five minutes for speakers. When you hear the appropriate signal, know that there is still 30 seconds before the end of your talk. Welcome to the words of a member of the European Parliament, a great friend of Ukraine, Mrs. Sandra Kalniate. Please, Mrs. Sandro. Welcome. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u18	Dear friends! Five years ago, Ukrainians on the streets of Kiev had their lives protected the right to a democratic, independent, European Ukraine that could choose its fate and allies. The Ukrainians had to endure many sufferings over the past five years. More than a hundred lives were lost in Euramydan. Russia’s aggression against Ukraine claimed another 10,000. Shots sound on Donbassa every day. And we all continue to work hard together for the sake of the peace and territorial integrity of Ukraine. I absolutely believe, and this is my mission in the European Parliament to keep the European Union supporting Ukraine, because we share the same values and interests. I absolutely believe in the right of the Ukrainian people to have a European future and to protect NATO. Please bear in mind that you have many friends in the European Parliament, and the kind of mediation that I bring from them is very clear: since you will continue to reform in ensuring the rule of law and will eradicate corruption, we will be with you. Yes, the last five years have not been easy for you. But understanding that war is going on and there are complications, the macroeconomic picture confirms that Ukraine is moving forward, and its leaders are responsible for fulfilling the hope of the Dignity Revolution and justifying the victims of the Celestial 100. I think it's a special honor for me to be with you and act here. This reminds me of events five years ago. On February 20, I was in Kiev to demonstrate my support for the people of Ukraine. The emotions of these days were so strong that I clearly put them in my diary. Let me read a few sentences from him: “We went to the Mikhail Monastery, and the head of the Church of Philareth reported that he had given permission to use it as a hospital. During the events in Riza in 1991, called barricades, hospitals were also organized in the main cathedral of the city. The bodies of those killed on Maidan were carried away and left in the monastery courtyard. We came to a place where dead bodies were just in rows. Our souls, our hearts, could not accept the fact that in peacetime the regime could have come to war with its own people, with 21 bodies brought to the monastery. The priest told us that these people were shot either in the heart or in the head. They were not accidental victims, it was clear that these people had been killed by professionals. We were deeply moved by what we saw, and then we went to Midan in a few blocks. People went to Maidan with bottles of water, with food. The ambassador stopped near one of the buildings and said that four people were killed here this morning. I felt what I felt during the barricade in Riga. We were stopped several times. When we said that we were from Latvia, we were allowed to move on, and we saw tents that we were showing on television. I wanted to look at people's faces to tell them something, but I realized that I couldn't do it, because it would be wrong to violate their privacy because they were preparing for battle, ready to sacrifice their lives. We came to the monument of Independence, there was no one on the stage, only the figure of the Bogatheater in white. Behind the scene was a white bath and there were blood stains." Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u19	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I did not warn you that every workplace has an earpiece, and if you need a translation of our foreign guests, please have a very good translation in English. First Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Mikhailo Koval, is invited to address Mr. Boris Wrzesniewski. Please, Mr. Koval.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen! The disturbing information on Russia’s plans to capture the Crimea by 2014 has repeatedly come to Ukraine’s superior leadership from the power structures of the state. Despite logic, however, the criminal downsizing of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has been done in an orderly manner over the years. For many years, the Ukrainian army has been systematically destroyed and disarmed, the system of mobilization and the structure of material and technical security has been destroyed. Yes, in 2003, the 32nd Army Corps was formed in Crimea, consisting of 84th and 127th individual mechanized brigades of up to 12,000 people. Military units and units were transferred to the Coast Guard forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and further disbanded in 2004. The 3rd regiment of a special assignment of up to 1,000 600 military personnel has been redeployed from the Old Crimea to the city of Kyrovgrad. [[Today's Kopivnitsky]] In eastern Ukraine, a 254th motorcycle division was also formed, with poles located in Komunarsk, Artemovsk, Lugansk and Triochizbenz. [[Today Alchevsk]] [[today, Bahmut]] And in the south of the 1st Aeromobile Division in Balgrad Odessa, the 16th was reorganized into a separate mechanized brigade, and then disbanded. In fact, the State’s strategically important defence systems in the eastern and southern parts of Ukraine, including Crimea, were exposed in early 2014. In addition, the operational regiments of the U.S. Ministry of Internal Affairs in Donetsk and Kiev were established. Thus, at the beginning of 2014, virtually in all the fighting parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces stationed in Crimea -- the 36th single Coast Guard Brigade in Prevalny, the 1st Battalion of Marine Infantry in Feodosia, the 501st Battalion of Marine Infantry in Kerchi -- was reduced, and their numbers did not exceed 5,000,600 military personnel, while the number of parts of the Black Sea fleet of Russia that was stationed in Crimea and the further overthrown forces of the Russian Federation were up to 30,000 military personnel. At the end of 2013-2014, sections and divisions of the 76th Airborne Division of Pskov, the 31st Corporal Storm Brigade of Ulyanovska, the 41st Special Forces of the Russian Federation from Kubinka, the 10th and 22nd Special Forces of the GRU and the Russian Federation from Molkin and Stepovo; the 10th Special Intelligence Brigade from Mozdok; the 382nd Special Battalion of the Marine Corps from the Taruk of the Krasnodar Region; the 414th and 757th Individual Battalions of the Caspian Fleet Marine Corps, which were subsequently involved in blocking parts and divisions of the Armed Forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and preventing the fighting of the battles. A part of the 7th Airborne Division in Novorosian and Stavropol was also involved in strengthening the Russian group in Crimea as a reserve. Early in 2017, the security situation in Crimea was difficult and difficult to predict. Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs’ personal composition after the events at the Mayan Independence remained without leadership and was virtually demoralized. The Ukrainian and Sevastopol Berkut have already cooperated with Russia and has moved to the side of the enemy. The Russian Federation’s special forces were actively engaged in subversive and advocacy work. After self-delivery from the constitutional duties of President Yanukovic and his escape to the Russian Federation, they betrayed a military oath and moved to Russia: Chief of General Staff, Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Illin, Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, Commander of the 36th Special Coast Guard, 501st Special Marine Battalion and many other military commanders, as well as the vast majority of Ukrainian Security Service and Ministry of Internal Affairs in Crimea. They did not betray their country in autonomy during its annexation, out of 13 000 468 soldiers and officers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, only 3 000 990 military personnel, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine - out of 10 000 936 only 88, the State Border Service of Ukraine - out of 1 000 870 only 519, the Ukrainian Security Service - out of 2 000 240 only 242, the State Security Authority - out of 527 only 20. [[29.6 percent]] [[0.8 percent]] [[29.7 percent]] [[10.8 percent]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u21	Please add 1 minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u22	The theory of teaching and providing security during the Sočin Olympics was used to legendary the transfer of Russian military personnel to Ukraine’s borders. In advance, the Russian Federation established a powerful military group near Ukraine’s borders, which accounted for 200,000 people. At that time, only parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces were located in the east and south of Ukraine. According to the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine at that time, the total number of military units and units that could be deployed to carry out military tasks did not exceed 5,000 military personnel. At the same time, the most powerful arsenals and weapons storage bases, missiles and ammunitions of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where strategic and operational munitions were stockpiled in the east and southeast of Ukraine in previous years, were destroyed. Thus, according to its composition, its complexity, its teaching and its weapons, the Armed Forces of Ukraine at the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u23	Please add 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u24	..were unable to respond effectively to Russian aggression. In order to create a military advantage, the Russian Federation’s leadership launched a military operation on February 20, 2014, when there were tragic events in Midan and in fact the executive system and the security and defence sector were destroyed in Ukraine. Under the conditions laid down, the leadership of the State, aware of the real threat of a full-scale invasion of the mainland of Ukraine by the Russian Federation, which was granted permission by the Russian Parliament on March 1, 2014, decided to organize defence and maintain military towns in the Crimea. Ukrainian soldiers and officers who failed to betray the military oath for a month courageously held back the siege, allowing the country’s leadership to mobilize, reconcile, large-scale training and reblock the united parts of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the north, south, and east of Ukraine, as well as prepare defense lines in the most threatening directions, suppressing separatist statements in many of the country’s southeastern regions. All of this, as well as the commitment, courage and patriotism of the Ukrainian people, who volunteered to defend their homeland in the form of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the National Guard of Ukraine, the volunteer battalions, and the solidarity of international co-operation with Ukraine, allowed further the Russian Federation's military aggression in the east of Ukraine and to protect the independence of our state. Thank you for your attention. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u25	Thank you again, Mr. Kowala, for the heroic management of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the most difficult years for the country. [[Applause]] The head of the Permanent Delegation of the Canadian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, head of the Canadian-Ukrainian Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group, finally a great friend of Ukraine Boris Wrzesnevski. [[Applause]] Please turn on the microphone for 7 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u26	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! High-priority ministers! Dear soldiers, our knights! Dear MPs! Today I stand before you in the embroidery of my late father. 10 years ago on the sunday of Easter, my father wore this embroidery for the last time. We sat under the old cherry he planted, and we started talking about life. The father said: “You know, son, there is neither beginning nor end. My life is in yours, and yours is in your children. This has been the case for generations and will continue for generations. Remember who we are and whose children we are.” Dear Parliamentarians, as the head of the permanent delegation of the Canadian Parliament to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it is particularly touching to address you now, at this remarkable moment of Ukrainian future and democracy. More than 60 years ago, after World War II, the world faced new challenges. It was about the occupation of Central European countries by a state that had more weapons and fought divisions than in the entire Western world. This military threat from the East was all the more dangerous, based on Lenin Stalin's ideology, and the Kremlin's political leadership wanted to test the West's resolve. In Moscow, Stalin and other leaders told delegations who visited them that the Kremlin would undermine West’s resolve. It was only a matter of time before, they said, the West would come out of Berlin, and then nothing would stand in the way of Germany’s unification in Russian orbit. On June 24, 1948, Moscow began to block Berlin, but Germany and the West endured despite the fact that part of the German territory was occupied by the Soviet armed forces. What would be the world story if the world did not allow West Germany to join NATO and allow Germany to arm itself? During the second half of the 20th century, NATO became the shield behind which democracy was restored, while the Soviet authoritarian prison of the nations was strengthened by the gulag network and economically stopped. December 1991 may have been the most important month in modern European history not only because the Maastricht Treaty was signed at that time but also because there was a referendum in Ukraine, where 90 percent of citizens voted for independence, which ensured the death of the Soviet Union. But Fukuy and others' idea of the end of human history was premature, because history today repeats itself in a new way, and the new “ism”, the new threat of liberal democracy comes from the Kremlin. Then it was Berlin, and today it's Ukraine that's being blocked -- first in energy, and now it's a blockade in the Kerchen Strait. Five years ago, courageous people who participated in the Ukrainian Dignity Revolution were shot carrying Ukrainian and European flags by Maidan. It was in Ukraine that, for the first time in the history of the European Union, people were shot for raising a flag representing liberal democratic values. Today, Ukrainian brave soldiers are not only protecting Ukraine, they are a living shield for European liberal democracies. In fact, they protect the entire human family, and this is what happens in the 21st century. We must bear in mind the genocide of the people of Ukraine — the Holodomor — when 5 million Ukrainian peasants died and the famine devastated the entire country. Ukraine is a country that has lost its independence five times, at least in the past century, and has paid millions of sons and daughters for it. Today, NATO and Ukraine are facing a historic choice, whether to accept the Ukrainian people to the North Atlantic Alliance or not. Over the centuries, Ukrainians have paid the most expensive price for freedom among all European peoples, and today Ukraine is the fence of Europe against the Kremlin with its neo-imperialistic intentions. Without Ukraine, there is no Russian Empire. The future of history depends on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u27	Add 1 minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u28	As Mr. Tusk said, there is no Europe without Ukraine. And I would add, there will be no Europe without Ukraine! [[Applause]] In the difficult 1950s, Canada said yes when it came to Germany's NATO membership, then said yes to the Baltic countries, and now Canada is ready to say yes to Ukraine. This is our unifying mission. Dear friends, in these historic times, we decide together whether the dreams of our ancestors or your children and your offspring will be fulfilled “in a free, new family, ” or whether to be once again a people trapped, broken down, like a paralytic, on a crossroads.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u30	..I hear my father's voice, and Shevchenkov's "Promise" is speaking to us. Glory to Ukraine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Boris, for the important and warm words. I invite the representative of Ukraine to the Tripartite Contact Group for a peaceful settlement of the situation in Donetsk and Luhansk areas of Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Respectable military society! Dearly faithful foreign friends of Ukraine! We Ukrainians are a very memorable nation. We remember all that has happened in our history in a dramatic way, and we remember who and when he gave his hand to help Ukraine. Back in 1935, a British journalist at the British House of Commons, reporting on a very detailed Ukrainian question, spoke almost literally what Mr. Tusk and the reverend Boris Wrzesnevski said today: Without a stable, European Ukraine there will be no peaceful Europe. The year 1935 is six years before the beginning of the war against Ukraine, which was part of the Soviet Union, and two years before the war, Fascism rages in Europe. A British journalist had already made that statement. We remember very well, and we will remember how in 2014, an international coalition, which the President and our external authorities have been struggling to create, made a great deal of effort to stop Russian aggression. We remember well how in 2014 this effort stopped active offensive fighting and established, as it is called, a contact line, and I call it a de facto front line of 426 kilometers. But we remember very well, and we will remember that just four months later, Russia, which signed three documents in Minsk in 2014, violated all of them and launched active offensives, took nearly 1,642 square miles [1,642 sq km] of Ukrainian territory, and the important Debaltse railway station. When now, during negotiations in Minsk. They, by the way, begin with the participation of the representative of Ukraine, the representative of Russia and only the moderator of the OSCE, there is no one else. And that's where we speak frankly, because Mr. Grizzlow and I know each other a long time ago, and we're saying something that might not like in advance. And then, when this level of negotiation is exhausted, we invite representatives of the ORDO. So to be clear, the Tripartite Contact Group is the negotiations in the form of "Ukraine – Russia – the OSCE", and ORDLO or experts are invited if there is a problem. And then there's the big round table of negotiations. So when you ask the Russian representative, "Do you recognize the line set up in September 2014, according to the arrangements, where does your signature stand? – We'll give it to you. – This means that Debaltsev is a controlled territory for Ukraine according to the current agreement. "Well, you know, that's the reality." Next. When asked: “Is paragraph 4 of the same document implemented since 2014, which defines the OSCE as creating a security zone along the uncontrolled part of the Ukrainian-Russian state border? - No, I'm not. - Why? – Because the OSCE is not allowed to implement this part of the agreement.” I gave these two examples.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u33	Please add 1 minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u34	..that Ukraine is not doing anything there, when you put documents signed by the Russian side on the table and about ten of them on the table, they say, "Well, you know, that's the reality." Finally, I want to say this. Do you know what the most powerful weapon in the war with Russia is, apart from, of course, the Armed Forces? This is the unity of our Ukrainian society. What helps us in Minsk? That we are confident that those who oppose us know that we have a powerful Armed Forces and a consolidated Ukrainian nation behind us. And most importantly, we are helped by the fact that we are 100% convinced that Ukraine will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u35	A member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and European Affairs of Seimas of the Republic of Lithuania, Emmanuelis Singeris, is invited to attend. Come to the rostrum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u36	Dear Chairman! The president of Ukraine from the rostrum said a few minutes ago that 334 deputies voted in favour of the last law that Ukraine was going to Europe. This was the case in Lithuania in 1992. We said we'd never be part of the Eastern Union. Dear friends, how do we get into history? This question stood 100 years ago. Then five countries said before seeing Communist Russia. Then they were successful for 22 years. It's 22 years of my mom and my dad's successful life. That was what inspired us in that movement. This was very important to us. We said good-bye to the Soviet occupation. We never acknowledge the Soviet reality on our earth. We never acknowledge that we are slaves. This is our rule, our reality, we remember it, and it was with us for 50 years. A few months ago in Geneva, we met in the same room where the five countries had previously been. A Ukrainian delegation led by Boris Tarasyuk also came along, and we mentioned 100 years of our independence. I would like to say that I am proud that Lithuania presided over the European Union. Mr. Chairman, five years ago on 28 November, Mr. Janukovic said no to the European Union. But we organized a special conference in which Peter Poroshenko, Boris Tarasyuk, Mustafa Jemiliev, Vitaly Klitschko, and MEPs of the European Parliament took part. They all said yes. Vitaly Klitschko said, "If Janukovic says no to the European Union and to the Association Agreement, we will begin the impeachment process." The impeachment was announced on November 27, Janukovic, who did not like the idea of being in the European Union, but at the same time was ready to invite Russian troops to Ukraine. He was a traitor. The MEPs in Vilnius supported Midan. On November 27, we asked that this rebellion be democratic, that you speak for your future and for the European Union. Five days later, on December 3, I was in Maidan. The Mikhail Monastery was mentioned. I think, Mr. Speaker, you didn't just get Tomos from Constantinople. In the Mikhail Monastery, the monks hid wounded people during Midan. I had a friend named Boris Nietzsov. I told him in early December: you're a Russian Democrat, be with Ukraine on Maidan. He arrived, but he was arrested at the order of Yanukovich. After Janukovic escaped, he was at Maidan. I want to say that Boris Niemtsov was killed in Moscow for his friendship with Ukraine. He was a real Democrat and he supported Ukrainian democracy. Finally, I want to say this. When we shout out loud: first America, first Lithuania, first Germany, solidarity must be the first, democracy must be the first. Based on solidarity, you have a fantastic team on the Council of Europe. The resolution is adopted by our solidarity. The last resolution is regarding Oleg Senzova: release Oleg Senzova, release 65 political prisoners, release Ukrainian sailors! [[Applause]] Here was our friend Donald Tusk. I want to support it, ask for transatlantic solidarity, and ask for compensation for Ukraine's damage to the construction of the North Stream 2 pipeline, which guarantees a clear form of future membership. Lithuania will once again preside over the European Union, and until then we will do everything and you will become EU members. Last thing I want to say. I am happy to see young fighters here, and I hope that they will make a rapid career in the Ukrainian army. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u37	We always feel the support of Lithuania. I am convinced that Lithuania's headship will be the beginning of Ukraine's direct integration into the EU. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the head of Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, the President of the World Congress of Crimean Tatars, the national deputy Refat Chubarov. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable members of the government, foreign guests, members of the meeting, ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to previous speakers who have highlighted many important aspects of international policy, as well as Ukraine's internal and external policies, in the context of opposition to Russian military aggression against Ukraine, I will allow myself to move immediately to some of the obvious features that characterized Crimea and its residents at the end of 2013 – in March 2014. First, Crimea civil society expected changes in January-February 2014 with the hope of Ukraine as well as in January-February 2014. In doing so, many of Crimea’s public activists also took part in Jews in various cities of Crimea and organized groups to Kiev. Secondly, on February 26, 2014, the most active part of the Crimea civil society, some 15,000 people, responding to the call of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, refused to allow the leadership and part of the pro-Russian deputies of the Supreme Council of Crimea to simulate the holding of an extraordinary session, at which they planned to accept an invitation to the leadership of Russia to intervene in Ukraine's internal affairs. The following events showed that the Crimean Tatars, as well as the ethnic Ukrainians and people of other nationalities, gathered before the Crimea Supreme Council on 26 February 2014 for a huge peace rally to support Ukraine’s territorial integrity, with their determination and courage prevented the Kremlin from implementing its plan for the seemingly voluntary transition of Crimea to Russia. Thirdly, tens of thousands of people in the evening of February 26, 2014 were separated from the walls of the Supreme Council of Crimea, confident that they were able to protect Ukraine, Crimea, themselves and their freedom. It seemed that Ukraine’s security services and law enforcement forces would now have to enter their direct responsibilities by providing protection for key administrative and other strategic objects of the Crimea. But Russian special forces took over the business at 4 a.m. on February 27, 2014, with the construction of the Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers of Crimea. In the face of a shocking world, a stage of open arms conquest of Crimea began. Honourable participants in the session, five years of occupation, is an extremely long term during which Russian invaders are subjected to illegal persecution and repression, directly distorting Crimea, destroying unique natural objects, destroying historical monuments, misleading numerous military objects and infrastructure. But the most frightening thing that Russian invaders are doing in public and in the eyes of the world is to push the Crimean Tatar people out of their land. Clearly, it is not yet Stalin’s methods, but the increase of repression against the Crimea’s indigenous people is intended to force Crimean Tatars and ethnic Ukrainians to leave Crimea alone. Our meetings are being watched online by tens of thousands of people in Crimea. They all expect a clear answer from us to their main question: When? That's why we have to do everything we can to make sure that in 2019 there's a marked disruption of the Crimea. The Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian society, should take concrete initiatives to involve key players in international policy in the development of a plan of action with Ukraine aimed at the depopulation of Crimea and the restoration of Ukraine's state sovereignty over Crimea. But there is one homework that we have unduly delayed: a bill has been drafted by the working group of the Constitutional Commission of Ukraine to amend and supplement the Constitution of Ukraine as part of the status of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol. Constipation in the Constitution of Ukraine of Crimean Tatar National Authority in the composition of the Ukrainian State and the definition that the source of this autonomy is the right of the Crimean Tatar people to self-determination as the indigenous people of Ukraine, will give our State and our international partners.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u39	Please add 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u40	..new legal instruments and instruments to restore Ukraine's sovereignty over Crimea. We hope that in the near future, the President of Ukraine will introduce this bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sure he'll be supported by the votes of most national MPs. By rephrasing Donald Tusk, I will note that there can be no safe and sovereign Ukraine without Crimea. That's why we say it now and we repeat it every day until we return: next time in Bahchisarai. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Refat. I would like to welcome the Polish delegation who has come to our meeting and invite the head of the Committee to speak in foreign affairs of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, Mr. Gzegozh Schetin. Come to the rostrum. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u42	Dear Ukrainian friends! We express our full solidarity with the citizens of Ukraine, who are very determined to show today the world that they want their country to become a full member of the European Union. Poland will do its utmost to keep the doors of Europe open for Ukraine. These are the words that the Polish Seim addressed to you, Ukrainian brothers, on December 3, 2013, when Midan was just beginning. I am proud that while the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs was the co-author of this resolution. I am proud that three days later, on December 6, I stood before you on Maidan and gave you the words of support and solidarity from the Poles. When I was talking to people at the Mayan Independence, at the Christian, I felt that this was a key moment in the history of Ukraine and in the history of Europe. After months of protests, Ukraine, along with the victory of the Dignity Revolution, changed. But the whole of Europe has changed forever. It happened that here on the streets of Kiev, they gave their lives to the Celestial 100 hero. I am glad that hundreds of people were cured in Polish hospitals. But thousands of heroes have died and are still dying to protect Ukraine and Europe from Russian aggression in the east. We Poles remember this, honor the heroes, and bow our heads to them. We Poles will not allow the loneliness of Ukraine today, for we well know what a lonely struggle is. We remember 100 years ago in the 1920s, Poles and Ukrainians fought side by side with Bolsheviks. But we also remember that in August 1944, when the inhabitants of the Polish capital fought the invaders, the Red Army did not help the rebels, and the West remained indifferent until that rebellion. As a result, Europe was divided by an iron curtain for almost 50 years after World War II. Today, new zones of influence in Europe cannot be allowed. I talked about this to you Ukrainian brothers in December 2013 at Maidan and I repeat it today. We Ukrainians, Poles and other free peoples of Europe must be solidarity. We need more solidarity, the stronger the opponent tries to divide us, the more he wants to weaken Europe and the West. We will protect our united strong Europe. Long live the democratic and independent Ukraine! Long live the Polish-Ukrainian friendship! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u43	Today, MEPs and presidents from Poland and Canada speak Ukrainian in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]] I invite you to speak to Dr. Law School, an expert in international law, the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador, Professor Vladimir Vasilenko. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman! Respectable Society! It's an honor to speak in this room, where there are as many of our heroes as our Fatherland's defenders. [[Applause]] In Ukraine’s imposed Russian war aggressor, the Armed Forces of Ukraine protect not only territory and population but the sacred natural right of the Ukrainian people to live in a free, democratic, national state of the European type. The enemy lost a flash-breath that was aimed at violent dismemberment and destruction of Ukraine. Now he is waging a criminal war to exterminate Ukraine, hoping to force its leadership to make concessions detrimental to our independent statehood, the democratic constitutional system and the Euro-Atlantic civilisation path we have chosen. So calls for peace with the aggressor at all costs and at the expense of our vital national interests are immoral and unacceptable. Such appeals are an act of betrayal against those who now defend our homeland with guns and abuse of the memory of those who have fallen into battle for our freedom and independence. Peace on the aggressor's terms is the way to continue the war to destroy Ukraine with a soft force, which is used by the Kremlin Agency in Ukraine and by the Fifth Column. Peace in this existential war is possible only because of our victory and the aggressor's compulsion to end the violations of international law, the liberation of all occupied Ukrainian territories and the reparations of the war damage. This war must be won first and foremost by relying on our own strength and at the same time using the support of our partners and allies. Our victory will surely be a reality if the authorities and society are the only ones in the sense that the nation and the state make strong, strong and invincible not only motivated and well - armed soldiers, officers, and teachers and priests. In the 19th century, Otto von Bismarck made this point. A key role in strengthening the resilience of the Ukrainian Armed Forces should be to combine the forces and forces of the military as well as the unity of the army and society. The fundamental foundation of such unity is Ukrainian fighting traditions, Ukrainian historical experience, obsessed with its own historical memory, Ukrainian customs, and Ukrainian language. Mr. Head, I hope, thanks to your efforts, that the Ukrainian language law will finally be passed by Parliament at this session. [[Applause]] The language front is no less important than the front on the battlefield, and this is not to be taken lightly. Restoring and enhancing the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is a long process that is far from being completed. To be successful, this process must be accompanied by the formation of a quality new Ukrainian military elite and the creation of a reliable reserve for the renewal of the special composition of the Armed Forces. Military education institutions are supposed to train professional soldiers with patriotic mentality, and a normal school – secondary and higher – to train civilian professionals with the mentality of a patriotic soldier. Only in this approach will we have no cases of betrayal in Ukraine’s Armed Forces and in Ukraine’s power structures. Ukraine is fighting a powerful, cruel, deceitful, deadly enemy. We can and should resist it by applying asymmetric answers. This requires a critical review of the Ukrainian Military Doctrine and the Ukrainian Defence Act, particularly in the area of territorial defence. The new concept of territorial defence should include participation in military training and defensive action by civilians of Ukraine’s age and not only during a special period but also during a peaceful period. The civilian population, working with the Armed Forces, must be ready and able to wage total and widespread opposition to the aggressor. If necessary, millions of armed Ukrainian citizens should join the professional army. Then the organization of defense will be the most effective since the aggressor will oppose the entire nation and the earth will burn under the feet of the aggressor. [[Applause]] Of course, great efforts are needed to equip the Ukrainian Armed Forces with our own weapons. To do this, Ukraine has the right potential, only to use it. High-precision rocket weapons with powerful warheads are also an asymmetric answer that can stop the aggressor and force him to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u45	Add 1 minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u46	..over losses. One more. In his time, the prime minister of Ukraine, Arsenij Yatzenuk, proposed to build a European shaft, or a protective wall. It seems to me that we need to complete the construction of this shaft as quickly as possible and continue it along the Ukrainian-Belarus border. Then we're going to get ahead of the possibility of getting hit and from that direction. I could talk a lot more, but I'll let myself finish on that. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u47	The hero of Ukraine, Vladimir Gemchuguov, is invited to the floor. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u48	Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainians and foreign guests! Five years ago, the Dignity Revolution took place in Ukraine, the goal of which the Ukrainian people defined our European integration – the path closest to Ukraine historically. That's why Russia attacked our country, captured part of the territory of Ukraine, and here it is. For five years now, the war on Donbassa has continued. We have not lost this war, but our success today has become possible in many ways thanks to the help of our European and American partners, who have not left Ukraine and created economic pressure on the aggressor country. This pressure has resulted in relative relief on the front. Perhaps only politicians can call it comfort, and Ukrainian children, women, and mothers continue to lose their parents, husbands, and sons. In addition, Ukrainian soldiers, prisoners of war, patriots of Ukraine at Donbas and Crimea are increasingly being sent to Russian prisons. The fact that we are at war with the Russian army is something I can confirm personally. I, a local resident of Donbas, an ethnic Russian, but a Ukrainian citizen, saw the Russian army cross the border at night between Rostovsk and Lugansk. Since 2014, I have been in the occupied territory of Donbas for two and a half years and have been involved in the Ukrainian people's opposition to the Russian occupation because the truth was on Ukraine's side, not Russia. As a member of the resistance, I was injured and captured by the so - called LNR. I was sick, without my hands, blinded for a year in prison. I hope that these facts will be clear and weighty for you European politicians. Europe is confused by the economic crisis and political differences with the rapidly rich pro-Russian parties in Europe. Russia is trying to destroy European unity by using a variety of dirty technologies: lobbying, bribery, and misinformation. Russia is trying to represent war against Ukraine in every way as our internal conflict. From my talks with politicians in Strasbourg and Berlin, I realized that European politicians underestimate the situation in Ukraine and think that we will get tired, stop and agree to preserve the liberation war, as it did with Moldova and Georgia. Dear foreign politicians, our partners, Mr. Donald Tusk, I ask you to mention the mistakes of European politicians in 1938 in connection with the plan for the economic retirement of the aggressor. I'm sure you understand that if we stay together in the open war with Russia, many countries are afraid, no one will want to go to the EU and NATO anymore. But it's not the scariest thing, but Russia and its allies in the Russian occupation of neighbouring countries and Russia's global world supporters will undermine EU and NATO unity, and it will destroy them. Dear European partners, distinguished Mr. Donald Tusk, we ask you to intensify political and economic pressure and sanctions against Russia so that it will free Ukraine so that my family and many thousands of such families can return to their homes so that Russia will release all prisoners of war and prisoners from their prisons. Together, we will win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u49	Thank you, Sir Volodymyr. Allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all those present, including the military, to thank the participants in the guerrilla movement and the movement of opposition, who are working in the occupied territories and who are speeding up the return of these territories. Let us also, honourable colleagues, assure everyone that the Ukrainian authorities will do their utmost to bring out Vladimir Gemchuguwa in 2016 all the Kremlin prisoners and our prisoners of war and hostages who remain in occupied territory. The Head of the Civil Society Society, “The All-U.S. Social Union of the Families of the Dead and the Missing ATOs, War veterans and Volonists, ” is now invited to welcome the distinguished Mrs. Irina Mihnuk. Please, Mrs. Irina. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u50	Good afternoon, Reverend Head of the Supreme Council, our foreign guests, national deputies! Good afternoon, my dear Ukrainians! So it happened that tomorrow, February 20th, exactly 4.5 years ago, my husband, the Hero of Ukraine, Oleg Michnuk, was killed, a centurion of the 8th Afghan 100th in Maidan. [[I can't talk about it without tears.]] He went through a war in Afghanistan, saw death and knew the cost of life, but a volunteer went to this terrible war against Russian aggression and died on 20 August 2014 in the village of Novostlvka Lugansk. During his life, Oleg was involved in rehabilitation and assistance to families of dead and involved in fighting in the Afghan war. But as his wife for 16 years, I could not realize that these mothers, widows, and children were living. After his death, I, our children, his mother, felt the horror of this war. For the past five years, fighting has been taking place in our country, killing people there, and dying of wounds and diseases here. Do not pass on all the pain in words when you realize that no one wants to die and no one wants to lose their loved ones. "War" is the scariest word in all the languages of the world. It's pain, bitter tears, death, separation, thousands of ruined fates and broken souls. We, the people of the 21st century, conquer incurable diseases, make technological discoveries, but are still powerless before war is fought, before its death. The war took away our most sincere — our loved ones, our own heroes, who died without regreting their lives, for the sake of others. That's our highest price. But we families of the dead, strong and courageous, experience grief, loss, but at the same time realize that we must live for our future and for the sake of remembering our family. We continue with the affairs of our heroes. Among us are soldiers, volunteers, public figures, university students -- the sons of our heroes who died. Over 2,000,500 children have lost their parents. Many were born after the death of their fathers. They will never hear their voices. Thousands of wives, young women from the age of 19, were left alone with unfulfilled dreams or thoughts of their unborn children. I want us to think about it and ask ourselves, did each of us do everything we could to stop this Russian aggression, and what did we do to stop the wars around the world? I thank those who support the families of the dead. Thank you to foreign partners. I know what they are doing to support our children, our wives, and our mothers. Thank you to all who honor and remember our heroes. Glory to Ukraine! [[The voices from the hall. Heroic glory!]] [[Applause]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u51	Mrs. Irina, five years ago, the very hundred Oleg Mihnuk breached the Berkutu environment by taking the rangers out of the environment. He died during the Ukrainian attack — heroically killed as the Hero of Ukraine, and in his memory, generations of Ukrainians will be raised on his example. I know he will always be with us as the Hero of Ukraine as commander. Thank you. [[Applause]] I welcome the words of Ukrainian Crimean Tatar politician, former political prisoner of the Kremlin of Ilma Umerov. Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u52	It's hard to go after Vladimir and Irina, but I'll do my best. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Dearly Honourable Members of the Meeting! Five years of Russian occupation has turned Crimea into an area of absolute injustice, where human life and freedom depend on the degree of its loyalty to the occupation regime. Russia has placed in Crimea the most advanced offensive weapon in its arsenal. At the same time, international experts do not rule out that Moscow has also moved nuclear ammunition into the area of temporarily occupied Crimea to reach the site of possible use by planes or missiles on the peninsula. Viewing the Crimea as a military platform for achieving its goals for the Black Sea and Mediterranean countries, Russia, as an aggressor country, is taking all measures to completely displace people who are disloyal to the invaders and keep their integrity to the Ukrainian State. The number of such disloyal Russian occupations was primarily attributed to the Crimean Tatar people and to the ethnic Ukrainians. The main tool used by Russian invaders to suppress people's will, disintegrate their unity and force them to leave their homes, their land, is repression and persecution. The first and the most massive were the repressions against the authorities of the Crimean Tatars ’ national self - government. The interim decision of the UN International Court of Justice of April 2017, according to which the aggressor country has been ordered to immediately lift the ban on the activities of the Majlis of the Crimean Tatar people, Russia is cynically ignoring. Russian occupations brought ugly phenomena to Crimea that Crimea had never known before. Violent kidnappings and killings of people, looting of mosques, banning the temples of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine, accusing civilians of seemingly belonging to terrorist organizations and courts with sentences of 10-15 years' imprisonment. In parallel with these persecutions and repressions of the Crimean Tatars and ethnic Ukrainians, the Russian Federation is carrying out mass settlement of Crimea by citizens of the Russian Federation. Russia commits another crime by committing ethnic, cultural, and religious substitution of the civilian population occupied by Crimea. Among the participants are the legendary leader of the Crimean Tatar people Mustafa Djemilov, head of Majlis Refat Chubarov, other members of Majlis, with them scientists, journalists, students. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] I mentioned them only in order to assure you, those attending the meeting, but even more compatriots and fellow citizens in Crimea: We will all be gathered again in Crimea, in the Ukrainian Crimea, free of Russian invaders. Praise the Crimean Tatar people! Praise the Ukrainian nation! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u53	Guys, there's two shows left. I invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Victoria Sumar, to the words of the National Deputy of Ukraine. Please, Mrs. Victoria. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u54	Thank you. Mr. Head, dear friends, it is a pleasure to see so many patriots and friends of Ukraine. In the end, we heard a very sensitive talk. First of all, I would like to thank the organizers of this arrangement, who have allowed us today many things to remember and share their conclusions, for memory is vital and conclusions need to be made. I'm going to talk about information and information policy. In his statement, Mr. Head mentioned that on February 20, five years ago, when the Celestial 100 was shot, Russia had already begun the occupation of the Ukrainian Crimea. I want to remind you that five years ago, when the Ukrainian Crimea was occupied, Russian propaganda television channels were operating in Ukraine. These channels dominated people’s minds and actually opened the way to Russian cannons, tanks, and armory, as they penetrated the mind everywhere. And we have faced enormous challenges that European countries have not faced in decades. We had to form answers to those challenges, and first in the information field. We made it our goal to close down Russian propaganda channels. You know, we've been getting dozens of references from European structures that said you can't do that, it's non-democratic. I am very pleased that we have done this as quickly as possible and as legally possible, according to the court's decision. In fact, this halted the inflammation of international hostility caused by these channels. I am glad that today the countries of Europe come to the same conclusions and do similar things in themselves. Then we realized that not only did the media play a role, that Russia infiltrated the environment and the Ukrainian media through its film, through its various programs, through its cultural sphere. And then the task was to form the Ukrainian sphere of culture, because at that point in Ukraine it was actually completely monopolized by the Russian Federation. This was one of the most important reasons why Russian aggression in Crimea, for example, had such results, and that we today have a war in eastern Ukraine. Our proposals were like that. After the closure of the Russian TV channels, we introduced a number of more stringent means, such as banning Russian films in Ukraine, especially those that promote the authorities and the power structures of the aggressor state. Again, there were so many screams that it was wrong and undemocratic. As a result, Ukraine started making its own movie, and we finally had Ukrainian patriotic films about our heroes that you see in the audience today. [[Applause]] The next step was the quota. We had a product quota in foreign languages, such as Russian. We said that foreign languages on Ukrainian radio could be at least 65 percent of the product, 35 percent of the product could be Ukrainian, 60 percent could be Ukrainian on-air. Do you know how many songs we have today in English? 60 percent, not 35 percent! The Ukrainian song actually squeezed out Russian pops, which penetrated the Ukrainian consciousness. [[Applause]] We introduced TV quotas and removed the Russian product from the European quota because we never forgot about our Europeanness, which Mr. Tusk was talking about. When we said that Russian product was a European product, that wasn't exactly the case, we knew very well that Russia didn't assume any obligation that it was an anti-European information resource. After removing that, we started producing our own programs and finally made the Ukrainian information space really Ukrainian. Then there were similar measures involving both literature and periodicals. We did not allow imports into the territory of Ukraine of printed production, where there was agitation for the authorities or for the power structures of the aggressor state. Yes, the means are hard. Was it possible to do otherwise in hybrid warfare? Hardly. We did not forget our Europeanism when we continued to carry out reforms within the country, continued the dissuasion of the printed press, continued to generate public speaking, continued to open Ukraine. Is there a country more open today than Ukraine under the system of access and information about officials and information about public finances? We have never forgotten our Europeanness. But as Mr. Head said today, we have shown that Putina can and should be stopped, and in the information sphere we have done so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria, who initiated the closure of Russian television channels in the first weeks of the war. We will remember that all the time. Mrs. Victoria, thank you. [[Applause]] To conclude, I invite the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the head of the working group for the preparation of this meeting, and in fact the main instigator of this meeting, Hannah Hopko. Please, Mrs. Anna. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u56	Dear Ukrainians! Dear warriors! Dear viewers, especially those in occupied territories and around the world — more than 20 million Ukrainians! Dear foreign guests! It's actually a great honor and a great grace of God to be here, in an independent Ukraine, and today to sum up how our nation has been able to resist Russian aggression. Now there are many foreign guests, such as Malagozata Gosevska, who came from Poland. Along with other colleagues, she went east, collected evidence of the crimes of the Russian Federation. And I have no doubt that one day all this evidence will be the basis for the toll regime and, in general, the aggressor state to pay Ukraine its debts and never to attack any other land again. So we're going to collect evidence and continue to win, just like last year's Ukrainian Reserve, which won the International Court of Justice 1 billion 300 million. This enormous tendency to condemn Russian aggression will continue. Dear colleagues, I would also like to say that five years would seem to be a very long time, but in fact, in the historical period it is not so many of the 27 years of our independence, even though our state has more than 1,000 years. This was a unique opportunity, the Dignity Revolution gave us an opportunity, and we took advantage of it, because in five years, we saw that 30 percent of the territory of Ukraine was united territorial communities that had received resources and were already investing, taking responsibility for themselves in places. We were decommunized, and Lenin’s monuments were forever in the summer, and the Communist regime was no longer around. We renamed the streets, we recreate our own identity: Ukrainian music, Ukrainian cinema, Ukrainian song. This is very important! We voted in favour of becoming full members of the EU and NATO, but it is a tool. I have no doubt that we will become members of the EU and NATO, because it is NATO that will be interested in having such a strong partner, which is already Ukraine, as a counter to European security. But we have to come there as a whole, knowing that we are Ukrainians, knowing our history, our traditions, and protecting them. Today, in summary, we realize that we still have so many internal issues. This is going to be a tough year: presidential, parliamentary elections, and in 2020, local elections. I would like to support Mr. Tusk, who called us to unity because that is our strength. But while Russia is preparing for a full - scale war. In particular, on weekends in Munich, we saw that the West didn't know what to do with what Russia had broken the middle- and low-range missile elimination treaty -- whether it was through a dialogue to decide it or not. We propose to the West to ban the construction of North Stream 2 from allowing them to feed Russia financially by buying energy from the Kremlin. But on the other hand, we see what Russia is still preparing for. She actually wants to take Belarus. We'll see how the elections in Moldova are going to be on this weekend. This is very important to us. I'd like to say that we're not a victim of Russian aggression, we're a subject who's been tested for maturity. [[Applause]] We need to set an example not only for us but for our solidarity with other nations, especially the people of Belarus. Why do I say that? Because Moscow is preparing anishlus of Belarus in front of Europe, in front of the world, and we have to say no. We need to show solidarity with the indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation, pay attention to the world and help them protect their linguistic, cultural, national rights. We have to give hope, at last, to the thinking Russians, who want the freedom of their own country, who don't want Russia to remain a prison of the peoples. We have a big mission because we live in a historic era. Ukraine’s time in this era has come. Only when we realize how powerful a nation, the nation of the solitaires, will we stop giggling and finally realize that God has given us this holy land, this second Jerusalem, and we have not yet spoken our word in the world’s Orthodoxy after Tomos’s conquest, after we have gained spiritual independence. I would like to say that in the 21st century, Ukraine has a unique mission, and I would urge citizens to believe in themselves, to thank God, to remember those who are not with us. So we thank God, pray for all those who have given their lives. We also thank the soldiers who stand on the front, thank their families. We know what it's like to wait and worry about whether or not he'll come back. Finally, I would like to wish the Ukrainian Parliament, the President, the government of Ukraine and this year to work as a national assembly, because that is the only way we are invincible. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking all those who participated in today's meeting, including Hanni Hopko and every member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the members of the working group who prepared this meeting, because I think it is extremely important and symbolic. Because we're not just talking about, we're not just talking about, we're talking about the future, we're talking about the whole period. Five years ago in these days, we were standing on burning barricades in Midan. Five years ago, we had the main task of keeping Majdan, just as our main task today is to keep Ukraine. During these five years, we became different, learned to win in all areas, and became examples of how to win. But we also know that the key guarantee of this victory is unity within society, unity with our Euro-Atlantic partners. It is very important that today our friends and brothers from Poland, Lithuania, and the European Council are with us during this meeting. This gives us confidence, understanding, and a sense of victory. We know what our future will be. We will join the EU. We're going to be NATO members. We'll return the Crimea. We will deliver Doneck and Lugansk. We will expel a Russian aggressor from Ukraine. Success, victory, and peace to all of us! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I declare the fifth anniversary of the Russian Federation’s armed aggression against Ukraine closed. Glory to Ukraine! [[The voices from the hall. Heroic glory!]] [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2019-02-19-m0.u58	Heroic glory! Glory to Ukraine!
