ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u1	Good morning! I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Please take up jobs, colleagues. So, colleagues, if you'd like to conduct your registration, please register. [[10:06:24]] 353 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of our colleague Oksana Volodymyr's Bilozer. Welcome to Oksana's birthday. Welcome, Mrs. Oksana! Welcome from all of Ukraine and from us on our birthday! But, dear colleagues, I have to tell you the hard news for all of us and for Ukraine. Late last night in the Plains region during the training and training flight, a helicopter in the Ukrainian Armed Forces crashed. A commanding officer of the 16th Special Army Air Force, Igor Mazepa, members of the crew, was killed: Paul Dacenko, Vladimir Popenko, Basil Romanyuk. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and of myself, I express my personal sympathy to the families and close to the dead. Everlasting memory and glory for Ukrainian soldiers Can I have a minute of your silence, please? [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Today, a traditional, eighth, National Prayer Breakfast of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held in the Ukrainian House. Representatives of various denominations, members of various factions of Parliament, our foreign friends united in a heartfelt prayer for Ukraine. I wish for all of us to have the same harmony and unity in the Supreme Council. Thank you to all the parliamentarians who participated in the Prayer Breakfast today and to the organizers of the Prayer Breakfast. And, colleagues, let's move on to the agenda. I would like to point out that we have the first question of a unified bill that supports all the factions of Parliament to give a leave to adoptors when they adopt an orphan child. Then there is the draft of Law 10181 on the harmonization of the military names of Ukraine and NATO countries. And I hope that today we will be able to support him together. I would also like to draw your attention to the draft Military Chaplains Act. I very much ask everyone to support its inclusion in the agenda of the day session to make a decision so that we have a chance to consider it today. And it's also a very important draft law on complete general secondary education. And I'm also really counting on us to be able to include it today even if we can. The issue of the resignation order of the Prime Minister of Ukraine will be essentially around twelve o'clock and one o'clock. Until then, I am sure we will be able to work effectively and adopt the laws that are necessary for national security and defence and for the development of educational reform in Ukraine. Before I go to the first question of order of the day, I want to read out a statement that came to the fore from two factions: "The Fatherland" and the Radical Party. They're ready to take a break from the rostrum. And I'd like to invite you to the speech of Oleg Lacha. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall. The first law will be very short to consider. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm addressing the people's deputies. Today you have a unique opportunity to make a decision to restore the agricultural class in Ukraine. Finally, almost two years later, today Parliament can consider amendments to the Constitution to article 41, where we propose to write down, to state that the agricultural structure of Ukraine is based on farming. I want to warn the Ukrainian society, we're looking closely at the statements of the newly elected president and his team, they've already declared that in the new parliament they're going to pass the Land Sales Act to foreigners for investment. In fact, it is one plan to take the land from the Ukrainians, take away Ukrainian peasants, and the Ukrainian people from their homeland. These intentions of Zelensky and his team - to sell the land to foreigners - contradict the Constitution of Ukraine, which indicates that the land, in fact, belongs to the Ukrainian people. Today, Parliament will have a unique chance to kill the autumn keel in the plans of the Glythians and transnational corporations, to tear the Ukrainian land apart and sell it to foreigners. I'm asking all the MPs, I know that most of you are stuck in elections, you're only thinking about your own parliamentary mandate and sitting in a new parliament. I ask you to think for a moment about Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian farmers. Farmers today are like chickens in the 1930s. Stalin, when he wanted to blow the people's heads off, they had a hunger strike. Today we have a chance to restore the farmer class, the Ukrainian land master class, so that not the affluents, not the transnational corporations, not the international money funds for the low-priced taxes, but the Ukrainian farmer on this land, and that this land feeds the Ukrainian nation for all generations to come. I ask you not to go anywhere, to join forces and to accept the changes to the Constitution in the first reading, to establish that the agricultural system of Ukraine is based on farming. Not to sell land to Green and New Parliament so that it belongs to Ukrainians, not to international swallows. I ask the head of Parliament, every MP who does not vote to give the land to farmers forever, to publish these lists in the Voice of Ukraine. I will bring to every village house the name of every MP who will not give the land to peasants and farmers.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u3	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u4	Are you going to the election? You saved an old, corrupt cheerleader. I warn every major: I'm going to go to every country house, and whoever doesn't vote won't give the Ukrainians their land, they won't save this land for Ukrainian peasants, they're going to hang your face on every house, so that people know that you don't have the right to be in this Parliament. Because you take the land from them and give it to the international swallows. The Ukrainian land must belong.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u5	And, colleagues, we're moving to the first issue of the agenda -- this is the draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on granting maternity leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (6,350). There are only a few rights here, colleagues, so I'm asking everyone to be in position. And I invite you to the report of the First Vice-President of the Committee on Social Policy of Kaplin Sergio Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, before we go to the consideration of this very important bill, I would like to turn to -- I know that he is now watching the progress of events in the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Rosenk and Minister of Social Policy of Reva. Now, in these moments, there is actually a path, an attempt to capture the Social Insurance Fund, which is managed by tens of billions of dollars that belong to ordinary Ukrainians, an attempt to capture Reva's team and his deputy, Crentovsky. Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Crantovsky is the same person who humiliated miners, miners, blacksmiths, Afghans, children of war who chased them personally. And there's relevant video evidence from the Ministry of Social Policy, it's been publicly humiliated by the media, and today it's literally sitting on all the streams, I emphasize, of all the corruption flows in the Ministry of Social Policy. These are billions of bracelets that do not reach the pockets of a simple Ukrainian: pensioners, Afghans, black people, children of war, workers. It's her fault today that there's almost a $2 billion debt on payments to mothers who have given birth to children, to families who can't bury their families, to those who can't get money on the way out to the hospital. Today Reva and the company are trying to put her ahead of the government's resignation in the Ministry of Social Policy. I am addressing the President of Ukraine, who, I think, has not yet come to terms with social policy and what is actually going on to pay attention to this fact. I'm asking Mr. Groysman to take control of the situation, too, because with these frames then, and as a result, going to the elections is absolutely groundless. As far as the bill is concerned. I recall that on January 15, 2019, the Social Policy Committee reviewed the bill under number 6350. In all, eight comments were made to him, four were taken into account, and four were rejected. The bill envisages granting Ukrainian citizens who adopt children the right to a 50-day leave in case of adoption of one child and a 70-day leave in case of adoption of two or more children. The bill is completely balanced and ready for voting. I'm prepared to base the rejected proposals of the National MPs, mostly the National Deputy of Self-Help, Mr. Semimenach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u7	Thank you. So I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. And the authors, if they insist, by raising their hand. So that's 2 revisions. He insists. Semenha, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u8	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill currently under consideration, is to improve the provision of leave in connection with adoption. Indeed, there is now a need to bring the Code of Labour into line with the provisions of the Family Code for the granting of leave to those who adopt newborn children. At the same time, current legislation now provides that a person who adopts a newborn child from a maternity home is given leave with the payment of state aid in due course. Instead, the bill is intended to exclude the provision of state aid to those who adopt newborn children. They will now be able to claim only additional leave paid at the expense of the employer. Therefore, the relevance of really adopting these changes to legislation is highly questionable. Therefore, I propose to preserve the payment of state aid to adoptive parents who were adopted within two months of reaching the age of two months. In this way we will bring labour legislation into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Family Code. On the other hand, we will preserve the social guarantees that are currently in force for adoptive parents.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u9	Do you insist on voting? Aah! 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u10	So I'm addressing the head of the committee, and yet I don't want to balance the positions that are already in place today, which provide for some material assistance, and I'm asking you to consider my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u11	Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u12	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment, and Pension Insurance, refused to accept the appropriate amendment, resigned from article 209 of the Ukrainian Family Code, which foresees that a child may be adopted not immediately after birth but after two months. So, Your Honor, in order to ensure that this right is taken into account, I ask you, after the adoption of this bill, to make a comprehensive legislative comment, a proposal where the 209 Family Code would be amended. In addition, there are some violations concerning the understandable apparatus in editing, the final regulation of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u13	Thank you. So I'm voting on Amendment 2. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. Vote. [[10:21:03]] For-53 The decision is not taken. 3 redundancies. 6 axles. 8 axles. Colleagues, pay attention! This is a final amendment. In five minutes, the vote will take place. I ask all the heads of factions to invite MPs into the hall. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform you that a vote will take place in five minutes. Everyone please be in the workplace. And on the 8th hand, I give the floor to Semensi. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u14	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the honourable reporter, I would like to point out once again that it is the purpose of the draft law that has been declared to remove the collegiates between the provisions of the Labour Code and the Ukrainian Family Code. At the same time, there are two other legislative acts. The first is the Ukrainian Law on State Assistance to Families with Children, and the Ukrainian Law on Public Compulsory State Social Insurance, which contains standards for granting leave to adoptors who are currently in conflict with the Ukrainian Family Code. By this amendment, I propose to remove from these laws the colossal norms that provide for the possible adoption of a child within two months of the date of birth, since according to the Family Code, a child abandoned in a maternity home or refused to take a parent may be adopted only after reaching the age of two months. So I propose to settle all of these colossal issues that are currently on vacation to adoptive children, including those that were included in the first reading. Convinced that the law should be balanced and harmonised with all existing legislation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u15	Please, Mr. Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u16	The committee rejected the relevant remark, the corresponding amendment of the honourable national MP due to the conflict, the legal conflict on the basis of the rules governing the bill. The bill regulates the legal relationship exclusively by adoption, and according to your rights: the 8th, 6th, 4th and 2nds, we need to make comprehensive changes to the Ukrainian Family Code, particularly in article 209, article 220, article 211, which would balance the bill from a normative point of view. So I think we can today boldly adopt this bill, it will create conditions for modernizing legislation on adoption, and in the future we can seriously change this bill, taking into account more well-founded, well-established proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u17	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u18	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Self-Help faction for joining in the drafting of this bill. Unfortunately, this is the only faction in Parliament that is actively involved in adoption. Unfortunately, it's one of the only two factions, or three, in Parliament that has delegated its representatives to the Social Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u19	Please, 30 more seconds, and finish now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u20	However, we see a large number of people on the rostrum who are in pain for social policy, a large number of leaders, MPs, but work for the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pension Insurance, unfortunately no one wants to go. They're in pain here, on the rostrum, for the common people, and they're going to work on the Customs Committee, on the Budget Committee, or on the Committee on International Relations. Go work with me on the committee, and then social policy in our country will be quality, modern, modern, and will be consistent with the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that Ukraine is a social state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u21	Thank you. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, take jobs. Heads of factions, please maximize the mobilization of national MPs. A social bill that unites the hall. It's just that it's important for everyone to be in the workplace. Please take up jobs. Guys, come back. Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on granting a leave to adopt an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (No. 6350) at the request of a second-reading committee and as a whole. So please vote and please support. Guys, get back to your seats. Mr. Valeria, we vote. Please vote, please support. Vote, support! [[10:26:54]] For 203 I'm going to have to come back again because a number of people just didn't vote in the hall. Please, I'll put it back on now. I'll read the factions. Take up jobs. Peter Poshenko's Block – 71, People's Front – 47, Opposition Block – 18, Self-Help – 11, Radical Party – 13, Father's Party – 4, Will of the People – 2, Rebirth Party – 10, non-factional – 27. Colleagues, heads of factions, you've seen who's not here, and invite us to the hall. Stay out of the hall, colleagues! Now I'm going to put the first vote on the return, and then I'm going to put the bill back on. So, colleagues, during the vote, I ask everyone to be in the workplace. And I'm voting first to go back to the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on the granting of leave to adoptors when adopting an orphan child, a child deprived of parental care (No. 6350). Colleagues, for your return. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, every voice. To return. Support, vote. Vote. [[10:28:48]] For 237 We're back. And now I'm voting on Bill 6350 in second reading and in general. Please vote, please uphold the law. Vote. We're backing it up. [[10:29:14]] For 248 The law is passed. Hello! Colleagues, next. We have the first reading of a very important draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for military service and military service). So I'm asking you to support his consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. It's a very busy day. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. We're going to support the abbreviated 10181. [[10:29:57]] For 155 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of all the MP factions who are co-authors of this important law that we worked with the Department of Veterans and our NATO partners. And, no exaggeration, this law today awaits the Armed Forces of Ukraine and we are asked questions by the military when the Supreme Council of Ukraine accepts it. Why is it so important? Because the content of this law corresponds to the course for the establishment of an active professional Sergeant Corps and the acquisition by the Armed Forces of Ukraine of interaction with the armed forces of the member states of the Alliance. The bill proposes the introduction of a new scale of military and naval military names, including the abolition of the military title "proprietary", "old flag" and the introduction of new titles: "recurrency", "sergeant headquarters", and others, which correspond exactly to the equivalent NATO column code according to STATAG 2116. The aim of this law is to enhance the role of the sergeant and senior staff of the U.S.S.S. in teaching and in the training of the subordinate staff. And the bill also sets out office responsibilities for the new positions of the U.S.S.S.A., including in the Statute of the Internal Service of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and in other statutes. It's very important. The new statute is also supplemented by important new positions and additions, such as the 20th, which elaborates on the order in which military personnel are placed in the lists of personnel and in the order in which the Book of Memory is kept, friends. So I think this is the key vote today. Friends, this is the unique opportunity when we worked on the draft for the first reading, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, having examined our bill, noted that it takes into account many of the comments and suggestions made during the preparation of this bill. The Ministry of Defence has made no comment on this bill. That's why I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues, all the composition of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u24	to support this bill, and to vote in favour of the short-term procedure for preparing it for second reading, so that today's composition of the Supreme Council will have our debt to the Armed Forces of Ukraine in order to introduce new ones. The scales of the army's and ship's military ranks to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u25	Thank you. From committee to committee, Arthur Gerasimov is invited to attend. Please, Mr. Arthur.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u26	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! The committee considered the bill at its meeting on May 15, this year. As a result of the discussion, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the committee, supported the adoption of this important and relevant bill in view of the following: The project will help to develop professional and motivated staff of the sergeant and senior staff in accordance with NATO's best practices, as the new system of sergeants and seniors envisages bringing it into line with the grading of names that exist in most NATO member countries. Next. This will, in turn, contribute to a greater involvement of this category of NATO military personnel in training and training that will match their level of training and skills, which will enhance the effectiveness of such training. The changes to the statutes proposed in the project will expand the mandate of the sergeant and senior staff, which are currently limited in comparison with the practice of NATO countries. Without the adoption of these changes, it will not be possible to achieve a quality professionalization of the Sergeant and Chief of Staff, which will have a negative impact on the compatibility of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the armed forces of the Alliance. Taking into account the above, as well as the fact that the Ministry of Defence supports the project without any notice, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading project's consideration of it as a basis. I would also like to support the request made by the bill's team, which Irina Heratchenko has just made, that the Supreme Council Hall support the short deadline for preparing this project for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u27	So let's do the recording: two in, two in, two in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u28	Please state the position of the People's Front, National Deputy Sauka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear friends, dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! As far as the bill on national security and defence of Ukraine is concerned, so as far as the Armed Forces of Ukraine are concerned, it should not be, let us speak, for some reason. We have to vote when the 5th year is at hand. For the time being, it needs to be supported because it gives the sergeant’s capacity to perform his duties to his State, our country - Ukraine. So, honourable national MPs, I urge you to support this bill and give it a road to allow our sergeants to accept all the possibilities to make certain changes to the statutes of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, namely, the Statute of the Garrison and Watchman Service, the Charter of Discipline, the Statute of the Internal Service, the construction statute, so that the sergeants can fully carry out their functions. Thank you. So I invite everyone to support this bill. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u30	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u31	So I invite you, honourable deputies, to support this bill. The People's Front will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u32	So, colleagues, now we're going to have a closing statement. There'll be a vote in two or three minutes. I ask all the factions to invite deputies into the hall in two or three minutes. I ask you all to see who is not here and to invite you to the hall. And I'd like to invite you from Peter Dustenk's Block to the words of Berezenck Sergius. Suggests a word for the speaker. Who's Arthur gonna be? You will? Arthur Gerasimov, all right, from Peter Dusty Block. Out of the way, please. And, colleagues, please all return to your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u33	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Ukrainians, I would like to firstly confirm that the faction of the European Solidarity Party will be required to support this bill by its vote. And I would also like to ask representatives of all the factions of Parliament and the groups of Parliament as a national MP, not as a committee now, and ask, perhaps today, for the support of this bill as a whole. Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich, if you please and there will be no objection from the session room, after voting on the basis of putting this bill to the vote as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u34	Mr. Arthur, I'll suggest this hall. But it's important for us to invite as many people as possible to the hall right now, and I can see it in the hall. Everyone has to be responsible right now to see who's not here and invite them into the hall. So, did all the factions come from the factions? Eugene Ribczynski? Eugene! It's all right, isn't it? So let's move on to making a decision. Please return from the government beds to your workplace. So, colleagues, so, colleagues, I'm asking you to tell everyone who's in the towers, and I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report in the towers that the voting is already taking place. I ask you to maximize your mobility and enter the hall. So we're ready. Yeah? Let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation (on military duty and military service) (10181). The first vote is on the ground. If it's supported, I'll put it all together. The first vote is on the ground. Please vote. Mr. Roman, get back to your seat. Please vote. And I'm asking you to back me up. Vote. To the army. Let's vote, colleagues. We're backing it up. 10181. We support the reform of the Ukrainian army. [[10:40:26]] For 193 I'll be back. I now ask you to look closely. I'll read the factions. Please, by the factions. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 70, "National Front" – 56, "Opposition Block" – 0, Radical Party – 16, "Fathership" – 4, "Will of the People" – 5, "Rebirth" – 0, non-fractional – 28. Colleagues, I don't understand who might be against army reform. I ask you to come into the hall and I'll put you back. Don't come out of the hall. Everyone, please come into the hall. I ask everyone to support who may not have been targeted during the first vote. Let me remind you, the first vote will be for the return, and then I'll put it on the ground. And I'm asking you to back me up, colleagues. I'm asking you to support everyone. So everyone's taken jobs? Let me remind you, the first vote for the return. Please be prepared. First vote. Please return to the vote for draft Law 10181. Please support the reform of the Ukrainian army, in favour of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we vote for the return, each vote, carefully and responsibly, we vote, we vote, colleagues. [[10:42:41.]] For-200 Yes, the dynamics are positive. And how do you wait, tell me, tell me, all the advocates of the Rules, tell me how to wait 15 minutes? I'm asking you to come into the hall, we count every vote. Heads of factions, don't let the deputies out of the hall, please. I'm giving Irina Heratchenko another minute, and I'll put her back. Look who's gone, and please invite everyone to the hall. One minute, Heroshenko. Please don't leave the hall. Please, Mrs. Irina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u35	Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on one occasion because there were no national deputies in the hall, did not vote on this very important bill. You know, today hundreds of thousands of our army, military personnel are very closely following this vote, and, indeed, during all the meetings in the Armed Forces, in the brigades of boys and women who are today protecting the peaceful Kiev, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they were asking: When can we adopt this bill? I remind you that among the co-authors of this bill are all but one faction. This bill draws the Ukrainian army really close to NATO standards. He's doing the same degree of sergeant calling that we have in our partner countries. He will allow our military to strengthen their teaching position, allow our military to charge otherwise salaries, compensation. He introduces a new, very important title, such as the chief of the medical unit, the regiment, the battalion. And the key is fixed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u36	One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u37	This is where the order in which the Book of Memory is kept is fixed. Please tell me, is there only 200 national deputies in this room who recognize the importance of giving our tribute to the living? And including identifying the proper conduct of the Book of Memory. I'm asking you a lot of questions, you know, saying that people are now coming back from prayer breakfast, there's no more important, not to pray publicly in front of the cameras, but to pay our debt to the military. Now in the session room, I very much ask everyone to go back to the session room and vote on this bill. And put it as much as it takes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u38	So, colleagues, I'm going to put it back. I'd like to invite everyone into the hall. Colleagues, heads of factions! Is that right? All right, we'll see. So, colleagues, they're getting ready, right? The first vote is for the return. The first vote is for the return, for the reform of the Ukrainian army. I ask you to stop the discussion, go into the hall and take up jobs. So, colleagues, get back out of bed, because the army needs to be talked about not only on air but also by supporting the vote in the hall. That's our job. So the first vote is the return, the second vote is the basis. I am voting on the proposal to return to the review of draft Law 10181 on the reform of names in the Ukrainian army. We will support the Ukrainian army, we will support the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I ask everyone to vote carefully and responsibly. The first vote is for the return. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We support the reform of the Ukrainian army. Vote. We're backing it up. Careful, responsible, colleagues. We're voting for the return. [[10:46:48]] For the 220. Colleagues, six votes. And I see that some didn't vote in the hall, but they did. The factions. Don't leave the hall. In fact, I read: "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 86, "National Front" – 59, "Opposition Block" – 0, "Help" – 15, Radical Party – 17, "Fatherhood" – 4, "Will of the People" – 6, "Party of Rebirth" – 3, "non-fractional - 30. So, colleagues, here we go. I see the people's deputies are coming along, take up jobs. Come in, and I'm asking you to support me. Please support the Ukrainian army, take up jobs. Thus, more than six national deputies approached. Please be prepared, everyone, to be very careful during the vote, and I really would like everyone to support me. Mr. Andrey, please support. The first vote is for the return. So I'm putting the first vote on the proposal to go back to the draft Law 10181. Please support the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Please support the Ukrainian army. We're voting for the return. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Vote! Careful, colleagues, every voice. Careful! [[10:48:36]] For 237 We're back. Now be careful! I am drafting the Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for military service and military service) (10181) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We vote, every vote. Support, vote. Please vote, please vote on technical law. [[10:49:12]] For 218. And I would like to make the following suggestion that draft Law 10181 should be voted on as a basis with a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote, please support. Please vote on the basis of a brief preparation for second reading. Please be supportive. [[10:49:41]] For 231 Decision taken. And I would stress, we voted in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading. The next issue of the agenda raised at the Conciliation Council was the head of the Committee on Freedom of the Word of Sümar Victoria Petrovna: the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. According to article 85, paragraph 20, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for the appointment of half of the National Council on Television and Radio. The National Television and Radio Council consists of eight persons, four of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At present, one member of the National Council remains vacant. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules and the proposals of the Professional Committee, the next order for consideration is proposed. A speech by the committee head is up to 10 minutes, but better short; statements by MPs and groups and statements by national MPs; then alphabetically, and after the end of the rating vote, votes for who won the largest number of votes during the rating vote. And I invite the head of the High Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I will be as brief as possible. I would like to point out that this call for parliament did not appoint its members to the National Council on Television and Radio. That four who is currently working in Nacradis was appointed by the parliament of the previous assembly. Their mandate ends on July 4th of this year, but obviously we will no longer be able to hold a competition and appoint the entire four, so it is now a matter of assigning a member of the National Council to the place of Catherine Cotenko (Zagorius), who wrote an application for her own wish, which was voted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2016. The committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, announced the competition for this post on November 21st, and on December 5, 18th, the question of the selection of candidates was considered. As you know, candidates have the right to submit parliamentary groups and factions as well as all-U.S. public organizations. The functions of the committee shall be limited to checking the documents of candidates for office whether they correspond to the legislation of Ukraine. In total, 10 applications were submitted. After reviewing the documents, six candidates were recognized as members of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting – Gluschenko Alexander Leonidovich, Lachno Evgen Leonidovich, Onoprijenko Maxim Valentinovich, Rudenko Valentina Stepanovna, Čemez Vladimir Mihajlovich, Šapovalov Andry Anatoliyovich. I think you know most of the candidates, some of them are in the hall today. Since the decision was quick, some people were unable to come either from Lugansk or from abroad. I just want to point out that the state of affairs of the National Council for Television and Radio is blocked after the decree of Vladimir Gorkovenko's appointment is cancelled, and in fact, there can't be a license for regional television companies for digital licenses, and we've disconnected the analogy. And this is a serious problem for regional speakers today. Such a decision could allow the National Council to unlock its work on television and radio. I will personally support all the candidates who are responding, in fact, to this position, and let the stronger one win -- the one who gathers the votes today in the hall. But I hope we can unlock the work of the National Council for Television and Radio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Colleagues, please sign up for discussion by MPs and factions. Please welcome Yuri Pavlovenko to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u41	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! In fact, I support the words of the head of the committee of profile that the National Council on Television and Radio today is blocked, and this was particularly caused by the decision when the President, who left his post, made such a certain staff of the surgeon and suspended the mandate of one of the members of the National Council for the term of office, by appointing another. The new president has repealed these decrees accordingly. In my opinion, today's review of staff proposals is also to some extent a co-conspirator of Parliament who is actually already in the electoral process. In election races. In my view, it would be appropriate if we elected all the representatives from Parliament in the new parliament after the elections. At the same time, the right of the Supreme Council to determine how the procedure requires. I would also like to point out that the National Council on Television and Radio in five years of the functioning of our Parliament has never been informed, as legislation requires, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, we have never heard the National Television and Radio Council, which is an important body, more so in the difficult conditions Ukraine has experienced for five years. So in my opinion, it would be important to listen to the National Council's report on television and radio. Moreover, the challenges that today are in information security for Ukraine are enormous. Despite the fact that the Committee has repeatedly held travel meetings, despite the fact that we have repeatedly considered these problems, there is a great danger today that Ukrainian television and radio may not be on Donbassa. Because from time to time the government is shut down, whether for electricity debts or for other technical reasons, when, in fact, the government does not perform its duties to protect national security, information security, destroys all power and all the work of Ukrainian speakers. It is because this challenge, as well as many others, requires the Supreme Council to take responsibility for the work of the National Council on Television and Radio. I'm sure we've already gone to the election, we have to go to the elections, not take another turn trying to appoint someone on the last day of our existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u42	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. And the word is Michaelo Bondar, who represents the position of the People's Front faction. They'll come out of the place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u43	Thank you. Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Please give me the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u44	Mrs. Sumar's coming. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, this is a really important question, and I want to stress that. We all realize that in Ukraine today, elections and policies make media to a large extent, this system of parliament is a system of balances. Such a system of balances should also work on the National Council. This should be a truly independent regulator, and it is eager to be heard that there are professionals first, not people who depend on one or the other political groups. I respect practically everyone whom the committee has appointed here as a candidate. Alexander Gluschenko is a well - known specialist in new media. Ms. Valentina Rudenko also created her time and channel 1+1, and Alexander Rodninski worked with her, and she is also obviously a well-known expert. And lawyer Vladimir Chamez, and Eugene Lachno, and Maxim Onoprianko, and especially Andry Shapovalov, who today heads the "UA:Donbas" branch of public speaking in Donbas, and this is a popular branch today that covers the needs of Ukrainian television in such a complex region as Donbas today. So we're going to vote for all the candidates, our faction in particular. And God forbid there are voices and we could appoint a stronger candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u46	Thank you. Colleagues, not all factions are registered, no. Please, Mr. Lazko. Please, Oleg Easy to present the radical party's position. Colleagues, other factions will take the floor? Then the closing statement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u47	The television project, the radio talk of late was controlled by Peter Prashenko and he was able to manually control editorial television channels, influence the position of their owners, and zombie the Ukrainian society about the seemingly great successes of the former government that were not really there, because all of these successes in Ukraine were felt in his pocket, where empty, and in a refrigerator that was as empty, and low wages and pensions. And what TV doesn't turn on is all good, we live beautifully, and the world's best President, the best diplomat, the best economist, the best. and spit over Kim Chen Ira and Kim Ir Sena together. That's who Dusty was because of our TV channels. Why? Because Nakrad could have taken the license if the TV channels were telling the truth. So today there is a unique chance to remedy this situation. We recommend Valentina Stepanovna Rudenko from our faction. She was among the founders of Channel 1+1. Unfortunately, after Valentina left that channel, he got angry, and many lie on that channel. I think that when Valentina Rudenko returns to Nacrad, she will make arrangements for freedom of speech in the country. But I want to warn you right now that if, God forbid, Parliament doesn't support Valentina Stepanovna Rudenko, a well-known expert, we will vote for other candidates to be independent of the National Council, so that there will be no impact on the people of Prague, not on Green or on everyone else. We need an independent regulator and independent media to stop people from speaking in white and black and white. We therefore vote in favour of the National Council for Television and Radio.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Self-Help insists on speaking, they have every right to do so. And please, Mr. Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u49	A factor of the rule of the past is the complete absence of any independent regulator in Ukraine. And the Antimonopoly Committee is working to monopolize the oligarchs of the Ukrainian economy. And the regulator of the NCRECR is the regulator of monopolistic energy management. Sadly, this has also happened in the field of television and radio. Today, the biggest monopolies of television information are either the enemy or the oligarchs. There's no independent controller, and soon there won't be. We're all for a full reboot, because this is a serious situation. Information is a weapon. And today this weapon is in the hands of either an enemy, or an internal corrupter and an oligarch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u50	Thank you. I'm only going to the Peter Dust Block. Don't you want to speak on this? All of it. Then, please, we haven't signed up for the will of the people yet. Mr. Ribczynski, please. Because there were only two factions in the letter. But of course, all factions have the right to participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u51	Eugene Ribczynski, "The Will of the People", Vosius region, city of Kiev. Nakrad's questions are not just questions of television or language, it's a matter of national security. Because we understand, and the previous speaker said that most of our TV channels, unfortunately, are in the hands of those oligarchs who are directly dependent on Moscow. So it is very important for the National Council to take people who are totally patriotic. Among those sitting on that rostrum, I know at least one person, my greetings. But the "will of the people" group will vote for everyone, and I'll explain why. If we don't pick anyone today, the Nakrad will never work. Therefore, it is necessary to vote, of course, not with two hands, but with the desired presence of all factions today and now to bring their people into the hall and to vote. So Nacrad, from television and radio, could finally work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u52	Colleagues, now I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion with the MPs, and for that, six minutes, we have the Rules. Please. Please, National MP Lavric.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, I've known Valentina Stepanovna for many, many years and worked with her. And a more democratic, independent, principled journalist, a Ukrainian citizen can be found. So I strongly support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u54	Please, the next speech is the People's Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u55	Regardless of the names, certainly, of respected people, and Valentina Stépanovna in particular, I would like to say that I personally am in favour of eliminating similar organs. One hundred and fifty million dollars a year costs Ukraine the National Television Network. I personally learned a few years ago the style of Nacrada's work, the methods of Nacrada's work, and how clearly and delicately the Nacrad's authority is controlled, and will also be controlled by a new, undeniably new one. And in such a situation, I would advise the new President, the new Prime Minister, the government, the new coalition, and now the MPs to support it, 150 million dollars better to pay off the debt to children of war, to pay off the debt to those in hospitals who can't get money, to those to whom the state has guaranteed the money to bury their families and doesn't give -- that's about 2 billion dollars for today -- to spend money on elderly people, on displaced persons, to spend that kind of money on other social, mostly social needs. Today, in every area, every city has an incredible number of abandoned children’s homes, social centers, perinatal centers, and so on. More than 150 million dollars to spend following drug addicts to paint inscriptions on the walls of houses all over Ukraine with drug advertising. We are with you today in terms of budget deficits, and when you have to count every single penny, you should clearly build priorities and always refer to article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There's nothing written about the National Council, there's nothing written about the state, and any new authority has to usurp control over the context of television. It says that Ukraine is a democratic and social, I emphasize, a social state. And when a hand reaches to write down a single bracelet for the creation of new organs, such as the Nacradis, anti-corruption, you have to think carefully about and mention pensioners, 78 percent of whom live on 1,000, 400 bracelets, living — that's mildly speaking, surviving, surviving. And every penny of the decommissioned district, district administrations, from similar national councils, other control and regulatory bodies, to give to the common people to live to the boom of reforms and changes in our country when everything gets messed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u56	Please give the next speech, National MP Savechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u57	At first there was a word, and the word should not be underestimated. During World War II, Levitan won the war with practically a voice and a word. At the beginning of the war, he was able to raise the fighting spirit of the boys, the spirit of the soldiers. At the end of the war, he was able to quench hatred and aggression. And we have to consider that this is very important in Ukraine right now. I understand that the law and what we're going to be voting on right now, and the decision, it's a little bit different, it's about the regulator, it's about management. The correct words are: The State must not regulate the word and voice of the people. But there must be national politics and national propaganda in the country that takes into account the national interests of the Ukrainians. And at the moment, it is also important for us not to make a mistake with the regulator, so that these powers do not go into the hands of the President, or the deputies, or the government. I've known Andrija Shapovalova since his trips to Lugansk, he had a TV channel called Lot. It was the first person to come out of occupied areas that created the media space that was gaining, to reach people in occupied areas when the state didn't do it. I think this person is an effective manager. This man joined the Donetsk and Lugansk region. At present, it continues to work with occupied areas. He conveys the Ukrainian opinion to the Ukrainians, who are now trying to separate and cut off from Ukraine. I believe that this person will be worthy of representing the position that will be the regulator. He will think first of people, not of authority. I believe that. To Andrey Shapowala!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u58	Please make your last speech. People's deputy Sverk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address you with the following words. The worst that can happen is the blocked work of the National Council for Television and Radio. Taking into account the following elections, taking into account that the next Council, when elected, will obviously not get to this issue on the first day of its work. So from my point of view, we have to do everything we can to make the National Television and Radio Council work. Among those who now apply to the National Council is a large number of high - quality and high - quality professionals. So I have a call to everyone on behalf of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy: please vote for everyone, because each of them is a quality and great professional: both Sasha Gluschenko, and Valentina, and Andrew Shapowalov, and other people who are applying today, Mr. Onoprianko. Please vote for all candidates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u60	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to return to the session hall, because there is really going to be a rating vote now first for the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio. In accordance with the Rules, there will be a standing vote on each candidate separately, in a sequence determined by the rating vote. Then you and I will move on to the election of the authorized and the appointment of the authorized member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio, and this candidate is due to receive 226 or more votes. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to return to the session room and take your seats now. I'm just going to remind you that we're going to vote in a rating vote to support the candidate in a sequence defined by the alphabet. It's going to be Glushchenko Alexander, Lachno Eugene, Onopirenko Maxim, Rudenko Valentina, Chemes Volodymir and Shapovalov Andry. We have six names with you now that we have to identify first in the rating vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u61	So, colleagues, I want to remind you, I'm going to call it my name, my name and my father, and you guys, please be sure of the candidate's support. Everyone, please take your seats, come into the hall. Please come into the hall. Colleagues, have they all taken jobs? Please maximize the mobilization of the people’s deputies by the factions. I would like to remind you that after the vote, I will put to the vote the candidate who won the largest number of votes in the process of voting. Therefore, I would like to ask you to vote carefully and responsibly during the rating vote. So in alphabetical order, I'm going to call it. The first is Alexander Leonidovich. Please vote, rating vote, please vote. [[11:14:49]] Z-87 85. 7, I'm sorry, 87. Lakota Eugene Leonidovich. Light, rating vote, please. [[11:15:21]] For-48 Third. Onojenko Maxim Valentinovich. Please vote, rating vote. Onojenko Maxim Valentinovich. Please vote, please support. [[11:15:53]] For 214 Rudenko Valentina Stepanovna. Rudenko Valentina Stepanovna. Please vote. [[11:16:18]] For-146 Chemes Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Chemes Volodymyr Mihajlovich. Please vote. [[11:16:44]] For-84 Please enter the hall in a minute and there will be a final vote. Everyone please take up their jobs. Shapovalov Andriy Anatoliyovich. Shapovalov. Please vote. [[11:17:14]] For-154 151.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u62	154. My colleagues, I'm just getting on the board. It's coming later. So, colleagues, please prepare for the final vote. Please, therefore, the largest number of votes has been won by Onojenko Maxim Valentinovich. And I'm going to put him to the final vote, colleagues. Now it's not a rating, there's going to be a final vote. So I'd like everyone to get ready. Let's move on to the final vote. And I am voting in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 210 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, on the proposal to appoint a member of the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting, Onoprian Maxim Valentinovich. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, please. Vote! Vote. [[11:18:50]] For 233 Decision taken. The factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 86, People's Front – 61, Opposition Block – 32, Self-help – 0, Radical Party – 19, Father's Party – 8, Will of the People – 7, Rebirth – 0, non-fractional – 20. Thus, honourable fellow national MPs, Onojenka Maksim Valentinović, is appointed a member of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio. Let us welcome the member of the National Council of Ukraine for television and radio talk with a position of responsibility and wish us success in this difficult work. Welcome! [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we have to work! So we move on to the next chapter, "inclusion in the agenda of the session." I'm asking everyone to stay in the workplace, colleagues, no one to go out! Olena, don't come out! Very important questions: It's a reform of education, it's also chaplains. Today we promised at the Prayer Breakfast that we would consider this law. So I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Don't go out there, colleagues. Prepared! First, I propose to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the settlement of chaplain activities in the Ukrainian Armed Forces (10335). Colleagues, please support the chaplains and chaplains. Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Vote, support, support, support. Please support the inclusion of a day session in order to make a decision. [[11:21:07]] For 202 I'll do it again, colleagues. Show by factions. Today at the Prayer Breakfast, we said that we would put it up today and vote. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote and take part in the vote. I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace. So I'm voting on the proposal to put the agenda in order of the day session for the decision of the draft Act on the regulation of chaplain activity. Carefully and responsibly, colleagues, each voice, please support, please vote. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. [[11:21:58]] For 206 I'll put it again at the end of the block. Next, colleagues: draft Law on complete general secondary education. The draft law is incredibly insistent on by the Minister of Education, Greenevich, and considers it simply necessary to continue the reform of education. So I'm asking everyone to be in the workplace, not to debate this vote. And I would like to support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for the adoption of decision 10204 – the Law on complete general secondary education. Please vote and please support. All right, hold on, hold on, we're voting. Support education, colleagues. [[11:22:54]] For 204 During the vote, Hanna, please return to the hall! Colleagues! Education! Education! Vote, please, and do not go to the hall during the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, colleagues. So I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on complete general secondary education. And I'm asking you, colleagues, all to be in the workplace and vote. All right. Sergei, Igor! Vote. Guys, take your seats. Let us support education and vote. Let's keep it up, fellows. Vote. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. Every voice matters. [[11:24:09]] For 210 Let's move on, then I'll come back. So the next is the draft Act on State Recognition and Support of the Plastic National Scout Organization of Ukraine (No. 10184). Please vote in favour of the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Please vote. Please be supportive. To Plastic. Vote. Let's support Plastic. [[11:24:54]] For 224 I'll do it again. So I'm re-voting the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act on State Recognition and Support for Plastics (10184). Each voice has a weight, please support Plastic, support the Ukrainian youth movement. Vote. We support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision making. Vote. We're voting for Plastic. [[11:25:36]] For 231 Decision taken. So the next one. Draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee (No. 10295). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote, support, colleagues. Vote! [[11:26:18]] For 239. Decision taken. Next: Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal (10041). Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. If you'll excuse me, we're voting 10041. [[11:26:49]] For 238. Decision taken. Next: Draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act on financial support for civil associations of veterans (10003). Please support the inclusion of the day session in order to make a decision. Vote, please. [[11:27:33]] For 219 I'll do it again, colleagues. Please go back to work. 10003 — financial support for the community of veterans, the inclusion of a day - to - day session for decision - making. Please vote and please support. Voting, voting. [[11:28:05]] For 216 Less than 216. The following is 10131: Draft Law amending article 121 of the Code on Administrative Offences (to increase liability for breaches of the rules on the use of seatbelts or motorcycles). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[11:28:44]] For 242 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending article 133-1 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to Increase Responsibility for Unreasonable Refusal in the Leverage Transfer of Individual Categories of Citizens (10004). Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. [[11:29:22]] For 245 Decision taken. The next 6236-P is a draft decision on a bill to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens to land, the preservation of property on land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and the continued development of the village on the basis of farming. Entry into the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Vote. [[11:30:04]] For 230 Decision taken. Today, colleagues, we. I want to go back to the question of education and the chaplains. And so, dear fellows, I ask you to concentrate now. I'm going to re-arrange the day-to-day session to decide on the draft Law on complete general secondary education. An extremely important question. I beg you, every voice. I ask everyone to support education reform. So I'm putting the day-to-day session in order to take a decision on the draft Law on complete general secondary education (10204). I ask everyone to vote responsibly, please support. Vote. We'll support it, colleagues. We will support education reform. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please back up! [[11:31:08]] For 221 A few votes, I can see they didn't make it. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Five votes for education reform. I'd like to be in the workplace. I ask the heads of factions to hold preventive talks so that everyone can take part in the vote. So I'm re-voting the proposal that the draft Law on complete general secondary education (10204) be included in the agenda of the day session for decision-making and moved to its consideration as soon as the agenda of the day session is in order. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote and please support. Please vote and please support. We are voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote please! [[11:32:07]] For the 220. I'll put it again, but please take part in the vote. Colleagues, show the factions, please. "Block of Petra Poshenko" – 78, "National Front" – 62, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 17, "Fatherhood" – 9, "will of the people" – 4, "Rebirth" – 5, "non-fractional" – 30. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up your jobs and support this offer. So I'm voting on the proposal that we include the draft Law on complete general secondary education (10204) in the agenda of the day session for decision-making. Please vote and please support. Very carefully, each voice matters. So I ask all factions to be in places, to vote. Please vote and please support. Vote. We're backing it up. Vote. Every voice, we support education reform. [[11:33:26]] For 232 Decision taken. And finally, colleagues, about the chaplains. So let's just mobilize. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft law on the regulation of chaplain activities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please support the inclusion of a day session in order to decide on chaplain activities. Please vote, please support. Vote. We support you, colleagues. We support the chaplains, every voice. Vote. [[11:34:09]] For 232 Decision taken. We have incorporated a lot of laws today -- it's a success. Now we move on to the next question of the agenda. This is a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly, the national parliaments of the nations of the world to condemn violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation. The Chubarov bill. Colleagues, let's work dynamically. We'll be able to take a lot today. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. We're voting for a reduced procedure. We'll support it. [[11:34:57]] For 212 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u63	Thank you, Mr. Head! Thank you, fellows of honor! We are paying attention to you to the Supreme Council's Order on Appeal to International Organizations on Rights and Suppression of the Rights of the Indigenous Peoples of Russia. Ukrainians know more than anyone how the Russian Empire and then the Soviet Union assimilated the colonized nations. We know how we banned our language, we know how we destroyed Ukrainian intelligence. We know that since the beginning of the burning of Kazan in the 15th century, Russia has been a prison of nations and has done everything to create this new kind of man -- a man without a root, a man without a Fatherland, a man without his own language, in order to subdue all the peoples and the Russian Empire, and the Soviet Empire to the calls and needs of Moscow. Today, the oppression of the native peoples of Russia continues. In Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, Chechnya, Churches, many other nations are under pressure, and on cultural issues, on their own language, they are not allowed to open up cultural centers or to practice their religion. Their activists are gone, their activists are killed by the Russian regime. We must pay attention to the international community's rights to the indigenous peoples of Russia and help them get out of this empire, from this prison of nations. We see the Russian Federation blowing up the theme that for the first time, for the first time in all of Ukraine's history, we have a parliament that can protect the national rights of Ukrainians, our language, our faith, our national identity. Let's do everything we can to overcome these speculations of Moscow on an international co-pilot, and do everything we can to. (15 seconds).
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u64	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u65	Thank you. Let us do our utmost to ensure that the international community does not succumb to Moscow's speculation about the national rights of the independent Ukrainian state and of our people, but to point out how the indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation are depressed. Please vote yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u66	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the committee, Anna Mikolayovna Gopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u67	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. During the last six years of Russian aggression, we have made many significant achievements in foreign policy. But today we have to take action. That's exactly what we're saying to the UN, to the EU Parliamentary Assembly, NATO, the Council of Europe. Today we urge the world to pay attention to what is being done in the territory of the Russian Federation. As the Russian Federation, which describes itself as a multinational state and a false concern for small nations, Moscow is in fact heading for assimilation of indigenous peoples and nationals, persecuting those who dare to oppose it. I have a map of the Republics of Idel Ural in my office, six republics, 12 million citizens. One of them, for example, is Tatarstan. We see how much the Russian Federation violates, in particular, the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. In particular, it disenfranchises or advertises to extremist national societies, hinders the activities of civil society associations of indigenous peoples. And so today, when 19 people's deputies, and these are representatives of different factions and groups, have registered this address, I think in this call we should vote and draw the world's attention. It is Ukraine that should show that we are solidarity. Another recent example is the pollution of Russian oil by chloroorganic compounds that poses an ecological threat to the peoples of Tatarstan and Bashkortostan. And so today from this rostrum, I would like to thank those who now live in the territory of the Russian Federation. Those indigenous peoples who were not afraid to speak up and condemn the Kremlin’s policies in 2014. For their territorial integrity and sovereignty. And today, when we vote in favour of this decree, we express our solidarity, demonstrate our subjectivity, and draw the world’s attention to the rights violated there. Therefore, I would also like to vote on the rights in the temporarily occupied territories and in the Crimea. So, dear fellows, I urge you to come.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u68	So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to come into the hall and take jobs. I ask you, we now have a high level of mobilization, we can adopt a number of important laws. It's important to be there, colleagues. Then you'll give the briefings and then you'll give the comments. Now, everyone, please come into the hall. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. And I ask everyone to support the draft decision. So I put to the vote a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE, the national parliaments of the world's nations on the condemnation of violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation. Please support everyone and please vote. Boys in bed, Vladya, this important vote really, come back. Please vote and please support, colleagues. Every voice, very responsible, please support, vote, support. We support the appeal. [[11:41:30.]] For 185 Obviously, not all of them were oriented. I'll read the factions now, please. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 77, "National Front" – 41, "Resistance Block" – 0, "self-help" – 15, Radical Party – 11, "Fatherhood" – 9, "will of the people" – 3, "Party of Rebirth" – 3, non-fractional – 26. I see the card didn't work, but I'm asking everyone to be there right now, see who's not here, colleagues, and invite you to the hall. I'm talking to the factions' heads right now, look who's out there. And I'd like everyone to come into the hall and take their jobs. So I'm going to put the first vote back. Please, take your places, come in. So, colleagues, the first vote is for the return, for the return. All right, then I'll put it again. Then, colleagues, I'm told, the decision is not about coming back. So take up your jobs, stay out of the hall, colleagues, stay out of the hall. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to draft regulation 10125. Please vote, colleagues, support the condemnation of violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation. Please vote, please support. Vote. We'll stand by, colleagues, we'll vote. [[11:43:50]] For 212 Not everyone's here yet. As soon as we start performing, 10 or 15 people will come out of the hall. Please don't teach me how to make decisions, but you'd better help the MPs call in the hall. Colleagues, by factions, please. Don't come out, I beg you, don't come out of the hall. Block of Petra Poshenko – 83, National Front – 49, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 17, Radical Party – 17, Fatherskina – 9, Will of the People – 2. Jaroslav, give me more votes, it's possible. "Rebirth" is 3. You guys, back up. That's the right thing to do. Postfaction is 32. I'm asking you, colleagues, to take up jobs. So, Mr. Chubarov is asking for words to call MPs, but I think everyone understands the importance. Mr. Chubarov urges everyone to support and vote, colleagues, and to be in the workplace. I ask you to prepare for the vote. And Taraszuk asks for everyone's support, colleagues. And I ask you to support the first vote, the return to the vote for draft regulation 10125, colleagues. Every voice matters. Please vote, please support. We're voting for our return. We're backing it up. Vote. We're backing it up. Every voice, boys. Every voice, please stand by. We vote carefully and responsibly. We're backing it up. Careful, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:46:06]] For 216 Fellows, let me put it to the vote one more time. Do not leave the hall during such a vote. Mr. Chubarov, please, one minute. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, look who's not around. Please see who's not here and go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, it seems clear that in order to help ourselves, Ukraine, to restore our territorial integrity, to liberate Crimea, Donbas, we need not only to mobilize as much as possible inside the country, we need to unite international partners around Ukraine, we need to support the captive peoples of Russia in order to become free. So voting for this decree is one more step directly for the invasion of Crimea and the release of Donbas. This is another step to force Russia to cross the borders of international law, if not, then let those nations, the captive peoples of Russia, support us, support the international community, get their freedom, and Russia, which is the aggressor and the invader, cease to exist in that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u70	So, colleagues, take up jobs. Don't leave the hall. Don't leave the hall, you patriotic fellows! Call Petrenko back. So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. Please, colleagues, ask me to come back as a few people have just left the hall. I'm asking you to prepare for the vote, get everyone a job. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to the draft Ordinance condemning violations of the rights of indigenous peoples in the Russian Federation (10125). I'm asking you, colleagues, to maximize your mobility, and I'm asking you to vote and support me. Hear the call of Chubarov, support Chubarov. Vote, support, colleagues. Please vote for the return. Vote! Voting, supporting. [[11:49:03]] For 221 Five votes. I don't see the logwinsky's got it. Colleagues! Please, colleagues, I'm proposing to return to draft Decree 10125. Everyone please. Shahov! I ask everyone to vote and please take part in the vote. Please vote and vote, for your return. Vote, support, colleagues! We're backing up! Every voice has a weight, every voice has a meaning. Voting, supporting. [[11:49:48]] For 235 We're back. Now I'm putting the draft of Decree 10125 on the basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Stay where you are, support me, colleagues. Please vote, please support! Vote, colleagues, support. [[11:50:15.]] For 234 Decisions accepted, colleagues. Congratulations! [[Applause]] Now, colleagues, pay attention! Attention, everyone! There is a huge request from the Minister of Education that we consider the draft Law on complete general secondary education. I can go on for 5 to 10 minutes, and we'll be able to look at it. I just have a request for everyone not to split up and to the extent possible. Support me, support me, colleagues, education. And I'm announcing a transition to the draft Law on complete general secondary education (10204). And I would like to support the consideration of it by a reduced procedure. Please vote, please support, vote. And I'll be in session in 15 minutes. [[11:51:08]] For-163 Decision taken. I invite you to report first to the Minister of Education, very briefly, then to the head of the committee. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, distinguished Ukrainians, all who watch this broadcast! You know, we've started a major education reform. I thank Parliament for taking a very important step and for adopting the Education Act in 2017. "New Ukrainian School" has begun. The Education Act is the foundation. But in order to build walls and to consolidate this educational reform as a strategic priority of the state, we need to adopt the Comprehensive General Secondary Education Act, which is a law of new opportunities, which is a law that aims at a new goal of education. The goal of education is that we can give our children all the opportunities, the skills they need for a successful life, to self-realize them, to build a country with responsible citizens. In this regard, the Law offers new opportunities as for students to achieve the goal of education, both for teachers, for parents, and for educators. Every novelty of this law opens up mechanisms for implementation to ensure what is laid down in the Education Act. For example, for children, building an individual learning trajectory will be a very important option. What is it? For example, if a child goes to a music school or a sports school, he can count on this teaching time and his accomplishments as a school curriculum. Similarly, it is important for us that parents can go to the head of a school and harmonize the activities of a child with its direct educational process in school. This is true of home schooling when the results of learning can be counted at an appropriate interval.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u72	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u73	There is also an increase in parental influence on the teaching process. Today, more autonomy will be given to teaching groups and school leaders. All of these factors together should really raise the quality of secondary education. The law is impeccable. Ladies and gentlemen, we very much ask you to vote on it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u74	One minute from the singing committee, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u75	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! Given the reduced mode of discussion, I want to say that yesterday there was an expanded, I emphasize, extended committee meeting where it was possible for all experts who had different views to speak. We had absolute consensus. The committee voted for us to take it as a basis only. And I promise you, between the first and the second readings, we have the opportunity to settle all of the discussion issues, and for that we will create a working group (which is actually created) under the authority of a colleague of the national deputy Taras Kremen. We'll be able to settle these questions in two or three weeks and come out on the second reading. This will enable all of us to build a normal education space in full general secondary education. Dear colleagues, this is a progressive law that actually forms a new educational paradigm in general secondary education. Therefore, I ask everyone to vote. I promise we'll find it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u76	Thank you, colleagues. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u77	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u78	Colleagues, we don't have a chance anymore. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. We're moving on to making a decision. So, colleagues, we're moving on to making a decision. And I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you, colleagues, all to take up jobs. It's one of the biggest reforms we're making, it's a reform of education. We now have a great chance to contribute to its extension in general secondary educational institutions. So I ask, colleagues, at this point to be responsible for these reforms that we have started to be in the workplace. And look, the heads of factions that aren't there, look who's out there. Please invite a colleague to the hall. And I, my colleagues, am voting on the draft Law on complete general secondary education (10204) on the proposal of a committee just as a basis. On the basis of that, we'll be able to work out. I demand that everyone enter the hall and take part in the vote. I'm asking everyone to take up jobs. Colleagues, and I ask you to support education reform, vote as a basis, 10204, as a basis. Please vote, please support, colleagues. We vote accordingly, we support education reform. Voting, supporting. Vote! Greenwich pleads simply to vote and support everyone. [[11:57:41]] For 224 Two votes. Please do not leave the hall. So I put the first vote back. So, pay attention! Two votes. The first vote is to go back to draft law 10204. Please vote, please support the return. We vote carefully, every vote. Please vote, please support. Vote. To return. [[11:58:20]] For 227 We're back. Now I'm voting on draft law 10204 on the basis of the committee's request. Please, colleagues, all take part in the vote. We are voting for the reform of education -- 10204 -- the draft of the General Secondary Education Act. Vote. We support you, colleagues. Voting, supporting. Colleagues, pay attention. Every voice. [[11:58:53]] For 229 Decision taken. Colleagues, would you tell me, could we vote for Plastic? Could the plastic be? Colleagues, stand by! I propose to Plast and Princely to vote for a speedy procedure. The anniversary of the Memorial dates is what we've been talking about, Mr. Igor. And Plastic. So I'm going to take a look at the draft law. I'd like you all to meet me in the hall. And I'm putting in a draft Act on State Recognition and Support of Plastics (10184). Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote. We're not leaving the hall, we're not leaving. We're voting the abbreviated. [[11:59:54]] For a hundred and Copy that. Please, 30 seconds, Krivenka. 30 seconds, please, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, 62 national deputies have submitted this bill. There is an official appeal by Metropolitan Epifania to all the national deputies to support this bill. I thank the committee of the profile, where representatives of all factions who unanimously supported this committee are both Fatherland, and the Radical Party, and Self-Help, and the People's Front. The great request for support is that, because, in fact, such bills are in Israel, they are in the States, and we are overweight. It does not need additional funding, it provides an opportunity for local authorities and at the central level to support it. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u80	So let's move on to making a decision. I ask everyone to take up their jobs and support the Ukrainian scout organization Plastics, a colleague. This is the responsibility of every national MP right now, at this moment. I'm asking you to be in the workplace, I beg you! No, please! I am voting on the draft Law on State Recognition and Support of the National Scout Organization of Ukraine (10184), which is proposed by the committee on the basis and generally with technical legal rights. Please vote. Please be supportive. We support Plastic, we support Ukrainian youth. We're voting on the basis as a whole with technical legal rights. Vote. [[12:01:33]] For 228 The law is passed. [[Applause]] Colleagues, Jubilee dates will be accepted in the same way, colleagues, how do you feel? We'll take it. Then everyone's in position. I'm looking at the draft Order on Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates in 2019. The first vote is a shortened procedure. Please be supportive. And no one gets out of the room. Please. Short. Everyone, please come into the hall in a minute. In a minute. [[12:02:09]] For-179 Decision taken. The report is addressed to the Prince’s Santa Claus. Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u81	Thank you. I'll speak briefly. The committee at its meeting on May 15, 2019, discussed the issue of the introduction to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft decree to amend the Appendix to the Order on Commemorative Jubilees and Dates. He recommended that the Supreme Council take a decision as a whole. We're supporting the National Educated University of Dragomanova, the Southern State Agrarian Technical University -- and we're celebrating the anniversary of the birth of an artist born in Kharkivsk, Illy Ripin, author of a famous painting about Cossacks who write a letter to the sultan. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u82	Thank you. I'm voting on the draft Order on Amendments to the Ukraine Supreme Council Order on Commemorative Dates and Juvies in 2019 (10295) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and as a whole with technical and legal rights. Please vote and please support. Vote, fellows! We're backing it up. Please be supportive. Careful, colleagues, every voice. [[12:03:25]] For 241 It's been decided. Congratulations, fellows! These were responsible and governmental decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But now I have to call it a 30-minute break. And at 12:30, I ask everyone to come into the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u83	So, colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is the draft Order on the resignation of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Groysman Volodymyr Borisovich (10341). I invited the Prime Minister of Ukraine to 12:30 and the entire composition of the government. And I'm asking all the national MPs to come into the hall to continue our work. So, colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. So, colleagues, break is over. I want to report that I have invited the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council. Let's welcome them, fellows! And I would like to inform you that a draft Order 10341 on the resignation of Prime Minister Volodymyr Borisovich Groysman of Ukraine is under consideration. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for resolving the issue of the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. According to part two of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part one of article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Prime Minister has the right to declare his resignation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ukrainian Prime Minister Vladimir Borisovich Groisman sent his application for resignation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on May 23, 2019. In accordance with article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is considering the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine not later than the tenth day after the date of the resignation application, if she arrived during the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 15 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" the Prime Minister is dismissed from office from office on the date of his resignation at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to resign the Prime Minister has resulted in the resignation of the entire Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the next order of business is proposed. First: Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman's speech, up to 10 minutes. Here is a word for a report to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Natalia Novak, within 5 minutes. Then statements from factions and groups, concluded by national MPs -- 6 waves, and then -- decision-making. So we're following a full-reading procedure. And I, my colleagues, move on to Project Rule 10341. And I invite you to the address of Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groysman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u84	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, dear Ukrainians! Three years ago in this room, you decided to support my candidacy as Prime Minister of Ukraine. I said that it is an extremely responsible task for me to ensure stability in the country and not allow any crisis in such difficult circumstances. First of all, the decisions we made were about achieving those goals. And I want to emphasize and thank every Ukrainian today for everything we've done together. And I'm an absolute realist, and I realize that not everything has been done in our country yet, but in order for us to be faster, more effective, we need to consolidate not only the Government of Ukraine, but also the Ukrainian Parliament. At different times, we made difficult decisions with you, and very often very difficult decisions. But today I want to thank every member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has carried out his duties and made public decisions to make the country stronger. Speaking from this rostrum last Friday, I said that we had another opportunity to be faster and more effective. After the election of the President of Ukraine, I am deeply convinced that we all have the possibilities of consolidation to adopt the most current issues of order, and I have said that we should be quick to make the necessary decisions that will change the political system that is ineffective. We can unite together and adopt laws that have not previously been able to find support in this room. I believe that these will be economic laws that have a very positive impact on the economy. We could have accelerated Ukraine's movement to the European Union by adopting normal laws that are now in Parliament and approved as our common road map of European integration, these were extremely important decisions. But on Monday, the president said he was asking the government to resign. This is what I want to say: I have never held a position in my life, nor am I going to hold a position. I've applied for the resignation that we're considering with you today. On the other hand, I was always responsible and never afraid of responsibility. All these three years, every morning, every day I understood my responsibility for matters in the country. I understand how difficult it is for us to be with you, but, most importantly, how difficult it is for a regular Ukrainian citizen today. And every person needs us to make decisions and implement them. I think that responsibility is the quality that will help us to become stronger in the future. But in the last 10 days, a number of different statements have been made, including the discussion of the default. What's a defolt? It's a restoration of the Ukrainians' income. It's an uncontrollable inflation, it's a stop to economic growth, it's an incomprehensible national currency exchange rate. And I want to tell you exactly that it's not my script, it's not a script for Ukrainians. Because for each person, this scenario will result in economic and social losses. And our task with you is not to allow any crisis in our country, but to do everything in order for the state to develop, and so that all the changes that we've started, not to evaluate today as a factory, but to complete the implementation. I can say the next thing that I respect any decision of the Supreme Council. I want to thank the MPs again. Mr. Head, I want to thank you. And I want to thank every Ukrainian. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u85	Heroim Slava! And I invite the head of the committee's committee on legal policy and justice, Natalie Vasilevna Novak, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u86	Honourable deputies, as already reported by the Head of the Supreme Council of Paris, came a statement on May 20 from Groissmann about his resignation, Prime Minister Groissman. According to the legislation, the Supreme Council is considering the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine not later than 10 days after the date of the resignation application, if she came during the next session of the Supreme Council, and no later than the first plenary week of the next in-session session, if such a declaration was made during the inter-sessional period. The head of the Supreme Council entrusted the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice with considering the issue of the resignation of the Prime Minister. Yesterday at its meeting, on May 29th, the Supreme Council Committee considered the question of the resignation of Prime Minister Grossman and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Ukraine decide by voting on the resignation of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I want to say that it is symbolic for me personally, because at a faction meeting, I was the only one who voted against the appointment of Groisman as Prime Minister. Prime Minister Groissman said he would show how to run the state, but he never once reported on the results of his activities to Parliament. Justice is glad to say that the Prime Minister has submitted a report on the implementation of the government's programme of action. But perhaps according to the agreement of most members of the Supreme Council, these issues were not put into the order of the Supreme Council’s day. Thus, Parliament was deprived of its primary function of parliamentary control, which is evidence of the destruction of parliamentaryism in Ukraine. Parliament should not be an appendage of the President's Administration or an addition to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I want to say that when parliamentaryism is destroyed, it is unacceptable in any democratic country in the world. But considering that this is a matter, however, political and, unfortunately, when the government resigns, we will not appreciate the real achievements, gains or disadvantages of the government, so the committee has determined to recommend to the members of the Supreme Council that each of the MPs be determined separately by voting on Prime Minister Groysman's resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u87	Thank you. And we're moving on to speeches from MP factions and groups. Please record statements from factions and groups. From the Self-Help faction to the word "Brezuk Oleg Romanovich" is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u88	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! The government of the market, and the market has a rule: the customer is always right, and if the client is wrong, the No1 rule is "the client is always right." It seems that the government and the chief are offended. You don't have to be mad at people. People made their choice, and that means they're right. People appreciated their condition, regardless of the report, their wallet, their pockets after they paid for all the utilities, came out of the supermarket, fueled the car. For them it's a real assessment of the country's economy, and they're right here. People are also now being misled by this whole tumult around the resignation, for not everyone knows that no matter what voting takes place today, the government will carry out its responsibilities to enter into force and to authorize the next government, with responsibility for executive power in the country. And that's also important to know, because we have an inheritance of power in the country, because it's a democracy. People understand, or perhaps some do not know, that many promises have not been fulfilled: promises to increase revenue from the customs budget, the hole remains and fills the pockets of those who rob the Ukrainian state; and the Law on. A tax on capital output that would support small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to become investors of their business, which is also clear to the Ukrainian state. And one more thing, dear colleagues. You and I have never, unfortunately, heard a report from the Ukrainian government in this room under the conditions of democracy and the parliamentary-presidential republic, which is an important thing to assess, to give a sense of trust or mistrust to the government. And if this government is democratic, it has to come with a report scrupulously of its victories and defeats, problems and unfulfilled things, perhaps with a recommendation for the next generation, and get a sense of trust or mistrust in this room. And going with a sense of mistrust is not easy, so you don't have to throw in statements, come with a report and show people what we have in the country today, that would be honest, clear and democratic in the presidential, parliamentary republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u89	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u90	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our team is voting in favour of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman's resignation. Let me explain why. First. The laudable and telling paces of economic development that Ukraine seems to be demonstrating are actually lower than the world’s. We continue to sit in an economic pit. Instead of a radical economic breakthrough in the policy of raw dependence on pitiful survival. Blind copying and execution of instructions from outside, such as the Monetary Fund Memorandum, resulting in a country at the threshold of default. This led to the blind implementation of the direction of the International Monetary Fund. The raw structure of the economy. When you brag about export growth, but if you look at export structure, it's raw materials. There's no industrial policy, there's no support for national production, there's no available credit for national producers, there's no cash raises in wages and pensions that don't stop the rise in tariffs, there's no price increases, there's an increase in utility. External authorities, when they're walking around the world, they're borrowing, they're saying they're taking, they're there to borrow, they're there to borrow, and otherwise we're not going to survive. Instead of humiliating begging around the world, Ukraine needs a new economic policy, and that is what we are proposing. Stop trading land, raw materials, and cheap labor. By the way, the job evaluation of both President Prashenko and today's authorities are millions of Ukrainians who have gone abroad over the years. This is the real verdict of the economic policy that has been held in recent years when Ukrainians cannot find jobs in their home country. We're proposing another development plan. We're asking President Greensky to cancel the government's decision to increase gas prices. We demand a review of the State Budget, it will clear out all the corruption schemes that the former President has put in place, and all the resources released will be directed towards increasing wages and pensions. There's no corruption in customs, in offshore harbors, in taxes. These are the resources that must serve the Ukrainians. And the key. I think, Vladimir Borisovich, it's absolutely irresponsible to write a statement to you at a time of crisis and resign. Because the President told you what had nothing to do with the formation of the government, you immediately made a statement. Who are you sitting here for? But you had a coalition, you had a parliamentary majority. So why don't you ask them, and you're doing teams of those who have no attitude in the parliamentary-presidential republic to form a government and a cabinet of ministers? That's why we insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u92	That is why we insist that President Zelensky exercise solely his powers as provided for by the Constitution and that Parliament carry out its own. We need a new parliament, for which priority, and for a new parliament, for a new government, as a priority -- economic growth and the well-being of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u93	From the People's Front faction to the performance, the leader of the Maksim Burbak faction is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u94	Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman resigned after the President's statement and appeal. The new President did not run for the new Prime Minister because the Council was dissolved. Therefore, we believe that Prime Minister Vladimir Groissman must continue to work, because economic and vacuum chaos cannot be allowed in the executive branch of power. The People's Front does not support the resignation of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u95	Thank you. From the opposition block to the word, please invite Natala Kraljevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the government! I want to remind you of the five most important, in terms of the achievements of this government. And the first is, of course, mega-corruption, corruption, which has allowed our country to join the list of world leaders. This is a great disgrace to everyone. The second is the total poverty of people. Your Honor, the pension is $54. And that's after the praiseworthy reform that we've all heard of here. Listen, but if you go outside right now and ask the pensioner what he thinks about the government of Groysman, I don't think we'll hear from him. Dear colleagues, over the past three years, almost every family in our country has been deprived of the protection of children, families with children, and the protection of any side of the state. The third is emigration. But now we have a national security threat -- a migration of young people who are moving out of the country in a massive way. Unfortunately, however, we have never heard from the government what they are proposing today is that they observe the youth protection plan and follow the plan to create new jobs. What about tariffs and subsidies? But it's a disgrace. Shame, when people were deprived of the right to pay their own rent, they were denied the right to live in their homes, and since then the coalition has decided to impose fines on May 1. Bringing the country to the debt pit by housing and utility tariffs. Listen, what about reform? Health reform, education reform, health care, pension reform -- but it was an experiment, an experiment from the government that was adopted here by a coalition. And that's why, first of all, we have to share a shared responsibility today. And those who defend the government today, please go and tell every person that you've supported all that poverty, all that abuse of the people we've seen for the last three years. And this was the first time in our country that the government did not implement the Constitutional Court's decision when we won the decision to protect the Great Fatherland veterans, to protect the Chernobylites, to protect the pensioners, but the government didn't mean it, they ignored it. And this is an example of the approachlessness, along with the approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u97	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u98	And we think that the solution can only be one thing: to resign this government. And I would also like to hear it in the last wave of this government, and how do you feel about the statement made by the Minister of Social Policy, who allowed himself, the Air Force Channel worldwide to insult people who are living in uncontrollable territory today? You are shyly silent about the latter.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u99	Thank you. From the Peter Prashenko Block to the word, the head of the Arthur Gerasimov faction is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u100	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! This morning at its meeting, the faction of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" decided not to support the resignation of Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman of Ukraine. The country is in a turbulent state after the presidential election. Regrettably, the newly elected head of state began his cadence for anticonstitutional decisions and highly questionable personnel assignments. Such actions already affect the internal stability of financial and security systems and relations with key allies. The decision to resign the Prime Minister in today’s conditions is harmful and threatening to a warring country and can lead to, let’s face it, the collapse of the national economy. Unthought claims of default have already led to dangerous consequences — an investor leaving Ukraine. It is extremely irresponsible to leave the executive headless in such a time to the state and, above all, to its citizens. I would like to point out who does not know, since the resignation of the Prime Minister, there is no legal right for any executive to sign a government decision. This means paralysis and paralysis of the executive branch for an indefinite period because it is still unknown when the new parliamentary coalition can approve the new Prime Minister and the Cabinet. In doing so, it is worth remembering that this year is one of the most responsible for cooperation with international financial organizations, for Ukraine has to pay a large percentage of the external debt that has been collected by a host of ancestors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u101	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to speak from the "Rebirth Party" of the People's Deputy Vitaly Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u102	My fellow Members, we all understand that now, with any voting schedule, this government will remain in office until the next Parliament creates a coalition and gives the Prime Minister new nominations to bring us a new government. So to some extent today it will be a vote that will once again demonstrate whether Parliament is ready to apologize, whether it is ready for Parliament to show people that it is ready for change. Are there today the results that both government officials and the majority of parliament can be proud of? I am convinced that the answer to these questions has already been given by people in the last elections. And by the way, and in the next election, I think they're going to put this to a vote. Of course that's the answer that's logical after the increase in tariffs, after medical reform, after much more talk about the reforms that people have only felt by lowering their opportunities when they go to the store, at the pharmacy when they're picking up the baby by September 1st. People are tired of waiting to hear them. And today's vote will not really change the state of government until a new parliament is formed. Only a mark — the responsibilities. But it is not too late for both the government and Parliament to change values. First of all, remind yourself that Ukraine is a social state. Return the benefits to the veterans, return the benefits to the Chernobyls, there is a decision even the Constitutional Court, output the level of wages and social payments at least to the level of several subsistence minimums, so that the person does not think he can survive and go to the pharmacy, or he can buy food. Today, it is a luxury for many. So now that a lot of my colleagues aren't voting, telling me that they're for stability, yes, unfortunately, that's stability in bad things for the country and for the people. And today, by voting, you will show your voters again whether you are ready to make any changes. So I will personally support the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we need to change our attitude in the country before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u103	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u104	I think we need to change our attitude to social issues. Unfortunately, most of the parliamentary players today, and Kabmin themselves, have won. And the result is that you were chosen by people, and you only have to work for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u105	Thank you. And I would like to invite you from the faction first of all the "Fatherland" of the People's Deputy Sergio Sobolev. And then there's the "will of the people" group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, distinguished TV viewers, our faction did not vote in favour of this government, and that is natural because we are in opposition. And I think that now, at least now, in the last two months of this Parliament's work, we need to have an honest conversation, and why does the government actually find themselves in this situation? Vladimir Borisovich, you had to resign not after the presidential election, you had to resign as soon as the coalition broke down. And you're very well aware that working as Prime Minister, covering up like a fig leaf, all the equipment that's built behind your back and the back of the individual ministers, because I don't want to black out everyone, there are great ministers in the government. But what is being done in the country under the cover of what the government is doing would be fair to declare your resignation as soon as it becomes clear that there is no coalition. This is the first conclusion that this Parliament should make and that the next Parliament should make, which will be formed. The other one. We do have a parliamentary-presidential republic. The government can't be a continuation of the President's Administration. You cannot participate in any situational rooms that then disappear from any computers, servers with any information. You are the head of the government, and your position is Parliament's position. And the President only puts you up to 226 votes in parliament for your appointment. If you had resigned then, it would have been a resignation. Where is the President who should be present during the resignation of the government? Because it's not toys. The government's resignation -- what's next? Who is serving as Prime Minister? What happens to the country in these two or three months? So by running ahead, no one will have any illusions. I already said we didn't vote in favour of this government, so we have, unlike you, who are now hiding, running in different factions, telling us that it was government policy, not the President's. Which you won't go on now, it turns out that we have the government to blame, not the President to blame. We will vote in favour of resigning this government, but this is not the key. With what conclusion will the country come after these years of government without coalition? It was no shame to involve Yanukovich in the voting on key issues. Really.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u107	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u108	After the Dignity Revolution, gather the voices of those who run the Yanukovich factions, and then we have the Rotterdam Plus schemes, the Düsseldorf Plus schemes, which affect millions of Ukrainians. That is why our decision comes out of this. And this vote should be the call of any future government, and of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u109	Thank you. And I invite you from the People's Will Group the word of the People's Deputy of Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u110	My speech, my esteemed colleagues, will probably be the shortest, it will absolutely enter the regulation, it will be less than 3 minutes, I think, less than a minute. The only thing I can say is that we don't have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and everyone knows it, we have a de facto presidential republic. Because some control their tools -- through district administrations, others through the budget they have, and so on. I want to tell you that the will of the people will not vote in favour of such resignation of the government of Groysman. It won't vote, because what kind of resignation is that when none of the ministers have reported to us, tell us what this resignation is? Don't you have any questions for the ministers of this Cabinet of Ministers? I have a lot of, like, Deputy Prime Minister of Cuba. Why did the reform of intellectual property procrastinate? We passed the same law, that's all. I have a lot of questions to ask, and in "the hour of questions to the government," it's impossible to ask these questions, because the day of questions, more faithfully, "the hour of questions to the government" is actually the day of the Emperor of Kabmin in the Supreme Council. That's why we won't vote, we'll wait for this government to come forward and when we've got plenty of time for questions and criticism of the activity and inactivity of the government of Groysman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u111	Thank you, colleagues. And now you're speaking from the National MPs for nine minutes. I'd like you to record a statement from the National MPs. So Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich gives the address to Head of Michael, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u112	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopil, 164 constituency. Honorable MPs, distinguished Ukrainians, distinguished viewers! Today we hear about the resignation of the government of Vladimir Groysman, I want to say the following. This government, led by Vladimir Groysman, has been able to build two Ukraines. One Ukraine is Ukraine of very rich, successful, rich oligarchs, close to them people who feel good about themselves, like Kosuk, from a government grant, supporting more than half a billion dollars, during your reign. The second Ukraine is a country of poverty and poverty. It's a country where peasants don't have the ability to implement their products, it's when they sell milk for cash. So this is when you cancel the decision on how to regulate the prices of the products of the goods of the first need, it's when they can't pay for municipal obedience, and today the debt has gone up six times, it's 80 billion dollars. Instead, you have another country that you've built: a country for rich, very major executives like Kobolev, Vitrenco, who are savvy officials, who are wise under your guise to assign space premiums, a half a billion dollars of wages that they don't deserve, and not take any responsibility. And today, such a structure as the Maintenance Service cannot verify this company because they are not allowed. And you don't see it, you just don't see it. And so, really, you've built two countries: one country -- for the oligarchs, for your friend Ahmtova, who you're paying for the value of Heatcommunergo, you're giving Oblenergo, and the other you're privatizing strategic objects; and the other country -- who doesn't have a job -- is millions of our Ukrainians who are going to the profits, my relatives, close people who can't find a way to realize themselves here in the Ukrainian state, you're taking away their future and their families today. And today they are the main investor of our nation. Over $10 billion a year is not your ephemeral investors. Where are the investments? There is no foreign investor. Ukrainians are the main investor, and you're registering the laws you want to tax our employees. Instead, Freedom offers something else: let's support, let's let investments be considered as investments and not tax them. Let's put to the vote laws on the anti-oligarchy package of laws that require "Freedom"; let's eliminate the offshores, bring them back here to Ukraine. All reforms failed: tax reform, the Ministry of Finance, customs reform. There is one corruption around, and no one sees it, and no one sees it. And so, of course, Freedom will vote in favour of the resignation of the government of Groysman, one of the worst governments in the history of Ukraine, unless Azarov spits you out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u113	The same as Ostap Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u114	Ostap Ednak, the political party "The Force of Men". Dear colleagues, I think today, on the eve of the parliamentary elections, we need to show, first of all, respect for the Ukrainian electorate. Yes, of course, it would be very good for this rostrum to call on the government, to rush the government for all human troubles. But I think it's going to be disrespectful to our electorate when we strike at total populism and we just lie from this rostrum that everything is wrong, it's not that it's all government and all that. Let's, however, treat the voters with respect, first of all, and let's say that a lot of reforms have been undertaken over the last three years. The Ukrainian Parliament has adopted many laws both in the decentralization part and in the environmental policy part, in the part of health reform, infrastructure, and Euro-integration. And that's where I'm going to say that the government of Groysman and the ministers have done very well, in some places very well. We're actually reforming environmental policy, in the environmental fund, we've put in place an environmental impact assessment procedure, we're implementing a strategic environmental assessment, we're building roads, it's clear, and our Euro integration course is going on. But there are also problems with the Groysman government: problems and total failure in the Ministry of Occupied Territories and internally displaced persons -- total failure; non-use of funds for international assistance and donor assistance, bureaucratic obstacles, housing insecurity for displaced persons, that's two; forestry, Vladimir Borisovich, you know the answer is two; the question of building a GES cascade on the Dniester. How many times have I been to your government meeting? There was no proper response - two! And thank God those hydropower plants haven't been built yet. Retirement system. We voted in Parliament that this must be done – not done! Where is the mechanism for implementing the earth’s market? Not done! Where are the bills, Marshall's plan for Ukraine? How many times have my colleague and I traveled around the key capitals of the world with Lithuanian partners! We asked the government to give concrete investment projects, do the right work with international donors! The process of absorbing international financial assistance – about 30 per cent efficiency, billions of euros not reached, Ukrainian infrastructure not built – two! So my government estimate on average is three plus. I will not vote for the resignation of the government of Groysman because it is irresponsible in relation to the state. During the inauguration, we heard a huge pile of menacing populism from the new president's rostrum. And I'm not involved in this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u115	Thank you. Jury of Oksana Vasilivna. He's handing over to Bolkov. Belkova, turn on the microphone, please see if your card is in place. See if it's your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u116	I have a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u117	All of it! Speak up!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, welcome to this meeting! And I want to start by saying that I am extremely proud of the series of reforms that we have undertaken with you in this Council office, for this office of your Prime Minister, especially with regard to energy. And as much as we argue, nevertheless, today's gas market works, there are certain competitive advantages in it, and I'm very proud of it. We're starting to build gas production, and it's a huge acquisition for both the government and the parliament. At the same time, I'm sure you'll come out of this room and go back to work with the government. And I'd like the first question you've called a meeting of the entire government to be the preparation for the launch of the electricity market. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we have held a series of consultations over the past few weeks with all participants in the electricity market and consumers. If you don't believe me, I'm asking you to gather consumers at the level of a small enterprise, medium, large and to make sure that they're in absolute chaos right now, they don't understand how much they're going to be able to buy more cheap energy, what prices are going to be in a balancing market, or whether they have the right of the NCHRC to set boundaries or not. It's all gone today. And I don't know how you're informed, I'm asking you separately to make sure that what I'm saying is true. There are many reforms that are too complex, but we do not always implement them in the way that was designed in the right law. So today I insist that we unite our efforts and make a critical analysis, as in fact two companies that represent 80 percent of the market today, which generate energy, how they will sell electricity to large consumers, to small ones, how the population will be protected. No one has ever seen the rulings adopted at the last government meeting. All of this is causing a huge panic. Today, the energy plant has announced publicly that it is closing all its agreements of 1 / 07. Who's gonna pay for green? Who will buy out the entire generation that will be produced in the system? Will they be stained? Well, I think it's one of those reforms where we have to take every technical and financial issue very seriously. The economy can't take it if all electricity is sold in a balanced market. There'll be price cuts. And we need to get together to impose restrictions on this, or we need to postpone the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u119	Thank you. And the closing act, one minute left. Parachutes, one minute. And, colleagues, we move to the vote in one minute. Ostrike, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the story of irresponsibility, because the President only received the symbol of authority -- he immediately decided to set aside, he asked the Prime Minister to resign. And today, the President has transferred responsibility to the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister is translating it into Parliament. And we don't need emotional statements, we need a stable job, and first of all, we're going to need numbers on the work of the government of Groysman. I want to tell you that the growth in GDP in 2016-2018 was slower than the growth rate of world GDP, which means that our backlog from the world has increased. The increase in customs congregations has always been slower than the increase in imports during 2016-2018, in particular the increase in imports in 2018 was 15.2 percent, and the increase in customs payments in the dollar equivalent was 9 percent. What does that mean? That not even all legal imports were taxed. This means that all claims to fight customs schemes, fight smuggling, and the 100 billion dollars to be budgeted by the end of 2018 have proved to be only loud slogans. I am truly grateful to Vladimir Groissman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u121	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u122	I am truly grateful to Vladimir Groissman for starting the distribution of the DFS and for starting the creation of the State Customs Service. I'm assuming you could have been disturbed by the force in your intentions, but why didn't you come out here to the rostrum and tell me that you're being interfered with by the D.A.'s office or the D.A.'s office? This means that you were with them if you didn't find the will in yourself and become a responsible leader, and you didn't reveal all those schemes that you knew about. So please report back over the three years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u123	Thank you. So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking Arthur Gerasimov to come. Arthur Gerasimov, please come in. And, colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote and come in and invite the deputies to the hall. So, colleagues, before the vote, I want to express my position. And I want to tell you, I respect the Prime Minister's decision to resign. At the same time, I strongly believe that in these difficult times for the country, we need to maintain stability both in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the government until someone does experiments on the country. I think in this period of great economic challenges, the government has to work, and Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, you have to work to prevent an economic collapse, so that there is a stable development of the Ukrainian state, of the Ukrainian economy, so that all people in their homes know for certain that the country is stable, that the economy is working. And I'm sure it's necessary for the government and the Prime Minister to continue their work. That's why I'm going to vote against it, and I'm going to call on all the national MPs. So I am voting in accordance with articles 85, 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the adoption of the entire draft Order (registration number 10341) on the resignation of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Groisman Vladimir Borisovich. Please vote. [[13:24:54]] For-97 The decision is not taken. 63 – against. The factions, please show me. Block of Peter Poshenko – 7, People's Front – 2, Opposition Block – 19, Self-help – 12, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 9, Will of the People – 0, Rebirth Party – 3, non-fractional – 31. So, Vladimir Borisovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I urge you to continue to work systematically for the development of Ukraine. And I'm giving you three more minutes to give Vladimir Borisovich Groisman a speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, first of all, I thank you for your decision. I said I'd take any decision with respect. Moreover, my decision was, not emotion, but position. And one more thing is very important. I have never taken responsibility in my life. From an early age, my responsibility was before me, and I feel responsible. I hear a lot of criticism at our address. Sometimes it is just. Do you think I don't understand the complexity of the questions in our country today? How difficult is it for humans today? Do you think just being Prime Minister of the coalition government, who needs to find consensus solutions that ensure stability? Is it easy today to serve a government debt that we alone have to repay 417 billion dollars this year is a third of the state budget? But, at the same time, I am an absolute reality, and I know that the steps we have taken, they are beginning to change, and these changes can be faster if the parliamentary factions, regardless of their political affiliation, are united and voted. And this, I think, is the main task. Next. Listen, how much of this hatred can we bear? Some performances, they're completely artificial. We know each other. What do you position some in front of the cameras and want to look better than you really are? [[Applause]] What do you say about your criticism today, if you've acted in a completely different way? What's more, the authorities of the past, I've only been prime minister of the country for three years, while some tens of years have been in power, and today I'm struggling with what you created: both the Donbas conflict and the economy, and they destroyed the state's social policy. And today we have to dig it all up after you! I would like to emphasize once again that for me, Ukraine is not just a place on the map, it's a big European country, 45 million, where there are 45 million living hearts who want to live better, who want to live more human lives. And it's up to you. I understand that you are developing your lungs today by pushing the air into the information space. Take care to vote with your heart so that everyone feels responsible for the country. I feel this responsibility. And one more thing. People are criticizing Parliament, and today I understand why, and why sometimes people say they don't respect Parliament. Because some do not respect themselves. You weren't talking about Ukraine today, you were talking about yourself today. For you, the most important thing for some is your mandate, your rating, your badge, your integrity and much more. And for me, Ukraine, Ukraine, because I want to live here, I want to work here. And I want them on the streets when I meet people, smiling, not crying. And if they do cry, it will be tears of joy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u125	So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm asking everyone to pay attention. Now I thank the government, and I want to. [[B in m in s a l in]] And, colleagues, pay attention! We're on the clock right now. Attention! – should have moved on to the agrarian block, where the first draft of Decree 6236 was introduced. But I have one request in my room that we vote for two ratifications within two minutes. If there's room will, if there's room will, in two minutes, quickly, without discussion. So now I want to report to Parliament. Everyone, please come into the hall! There are members of Congress and the Senate of the United States who have come to Ukraine for a prayer breakfast. I would like to welcome our guests, our friends and our comrades. Hello! [[Applause]] And so, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay put. Now I'm going to make an offer, who's going to take the two ratifications back. One of them is the ratification between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Society. Who would like to postpone the 0227 ratification review, please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:31:18]] For 186 No votes to move. And that's why we're going into a block of agrarian politics. And I'm the first to put the draft decision that we've put into the agenda of the agrarian cluster, to continue to work on a bill to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens to land, to preserve property on agricultural land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and to continue to develop the village on the basis of farming. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. We're voting for a cut. [[13:32:06]] For 131 Guys, I'm asking you again. We won't be able to look into it by noon. We won't be able to accept it if we don't vote in favour of the shorter procedure. I'm once again proposing that draft Decree 6236 be considered by a reduced procedure. Please vote and please support. We're voting in short. [[13:32:41.]] For the 120th. Colleagues, we have a large number of laws to adopt. We can adopt one law in 10 to 15 minutes, colleagues. In order to do so, it is necessary to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. I'm asking you to support the debate, I'm putting it in closing, if there are no votes, we're going to go into full procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote and support. [[13:33:26]] For-129 By factions, please show me. Colleagues, we won't be able to look at anything else for lunch. Okay. We're going in full, aren't we? Okay. I'll put it again, colleagues, and please support me all. Anyone for a reduced procedure, please vote, please support. [[13:34:18]] For 121 So let's move on to the full. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich! Ruslan Petrovich! I'm inviting you to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u126	Good day, dear fellows, dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished voters! The Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, at its meeting yesterday, duly reiterated its position on Bill 6236 of March 24, 2017. I will briefly remind you that on September 20, 2018, the session hall adopted a decision in support of the position taken by our committee to include this bill in the agenda of the ninth session of the Supreme Council on the eighth call and to refer it to the Constitutional Court to obtain the relevant conclusion. At the same time, after examining the bill, the Constitutional Court concluded that the bill corresponds to more than 157th and 158th articles of the Constitution, but in paragraph 3.1(3) of the reasoned conclusion, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine issued a warning, noting that changes to the Constitution of Ukraine should be made taking into account the structure of the Constitution of Ukraine and the content of the proposed amendments. Section II of the Constitution defines the rights, freedoms, and duties of man and citizen. This chapter contains standards that reinforce the fundamental personal political, economic, social, cultural, and civil liberties that guarantee the realization of them. The proposed amendments to the Constitution, namely article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, should be supplemented by a new part of the following content: “Agrarian farming is the basis of the agricultural system” - does not apply to a specific human right, which is why the Constitutional Court of Ukraine warns that they can be incorporated into Chapter II of the Constitution. According to part five of article 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I recall that, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, this section of the Rules and this part of the Rules is part of the constitutional procedure for amending the Constitution. In the event that the Constitutional Court has made a warning, the session hall cannot, in essence, consider a bill during a prior approval procedure, but a committee that is known to be the subject of a constitutional procedure is obliged to prepare a draft order for further work on the bill. This draft regulation should set a monthly deadline of 30 days in order to allow subjects covered by 142 articles of the Rules to submit their proposals to the bill. Fifteen days are given to committees that are not qualified to make their proposals on the basis of proposals made by the subjects. And 15 days for the profile committee so that he can process the bids and send them to the session room. The bill, in accordance with the law, should be considered not earlier than seven days after the National Deputies had given the relevant conclusions of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is the draft decree, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, that our committee is preparing for your consideration, and we ask it to consider and support it. Thank you. I finished the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Mr. Knazevitch, I'm asking you to sign up. Please, John Sporish, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u128	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, it would be very fair for the draft bill to be adopted, and so on, with regard to the realization of the Ukrainian citizen's right to land. Because, really, as has been said, and repeatedly, farming today must be key, key in everything. And, really, where there are farms, there are roads, there are social spheres, and there are other roads. Where large holdings, unfortunately, are not there, and very rarely we feel it. So, anyway, I'm thinking, how do you count, will there be support? Would you like us to come here 100 percent and vote, because it's very important to the village and to the farms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u129	I want to explain once again the position of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court does not object to such changes being made to the Constitution. He made a warning about where they should be put. He thinks that the chapter they're going to, chapter III, they're not going to go into, they're going to go into a different chapter, and I'm not going to now, so to speak, to give a clue as to how it's going to be formed. But I think that the national MPs, including the initiators, are qualified enough, literate people to write this procedure correctly. And I think that as soon as certain changes are proposed and proposals are made properly, the session room will be ready to support them, and there will be no grounds for caution in the Constitutional Court, because in fact they have no warnings. They have warnings about the form in which these changes are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u130	Thank you. Please, two minutes to ask Easy. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u131	Sir, Ruslan Knyazevich, I disagree with your position. Here is the conclusion of the Constitutional Court for the amendments proposed by us and the 195 people's deputies to the Constitution to be recognized as the foundation of Ukraine's agricultural system. In accordance with the Rules and the Constitution, the Constitutional Court concludes that changes to the Constitution are necessary. Here's the conclusion: the Constitutional Court has recognized that it meets the requirements of article 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, a bill amending article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine on agriculture. All of it. And this conclusion is binding, final, and uncontested. The Constitutional Court finds that there is no objection to the unconstitutionality of the changes we have proposed to the Constitution in order to recognize farmers as the foundation of the agricultural system of the country. In addition, I would like to quote to you the individual opinion of the Constitutional Court judge Sergey Sasa, where he pointed out that there are no legal consequences for the Supreme Council -- the objections you are talking about -- and it is not an obstacle to the decision to approve the bill in advance. A similar conclusion was reached in a separate opinion by Judge Mikola Melnik of the Constitutional Court. I believe that your position is to delay changes to the Constitution, that the land belongs to farmers. What's more, according to my information, the part of the faction you represent is not going to vote for it, because it stands for the interests of the latifundists, and you just want to tear the land apart instead of giving it to the Ukrainian peasants. That's why I'm going to the Ukrainian Parliament. Let's take the first reading of these changes to the Constitution, we don't have anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u132	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u133	Mr. Oleg, I respect you and I never allowed myself to be offended, but this is politics. Now, with your permission, allow me to answer, if you don't mind me, and to quote to you the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is part of the fifth part of Article 149: "The Supreme Council may consider the matter and decide on the preliminary approval of the bill in accordance with Article 155 of the Constitution or the adoption of the bill in accordance with Part One of Article 156 of the Constitution, provided that such a bill, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, meets the requirements of the 157th and 158th. and the Constitutional Court has not made any warnings." We're opening the Constitutional Court's decision, I'm not going to read it all, I'm just going to read it briefly: "The amendments proposed in section I of the bill to the Constitution of Ukraine do not apply to specific human rights, which is why the Constitutional Court makes a warning about the possibility of introducing them in accordance with section 149 of the Rules of the Supreme Council." Thus, with all due respect for the judges of Melnik and Sasa, the decision of the Constitutional Court became legally valid without their votes. Although I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u134	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u135	They said they voted in favour, and then they wrote a separate opinion. But it is their right, and I will not criticize their position. So we're just a limited, honorable Oleg Valeriyovich in manoeuvre, because according to Part One of the First 150 Rules, the Supreme Council is sending a bill to the Supreme Council's apparatus, expressing its position, directing us, and we can't go any further than making a corresponding draft decision, proposing to Parliament. But this is a matter for Parliament, how Parliament will react. It's just me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u136	Please, one last question. Alexi Mushak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u137	Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Ruslan Petrovich! Look at the situation. A year ago, the European Court of Human Rights acknowledged that the moratorium was a violation of Ukrainian citizens' rights and freedoms. For 18 years now, the Supreme Council has not been able to vote on the law on the circulation of land to which they would say how the Ukrainian can and is entitled to manage his land. Instead, we are now. Instead of enacting the right law, we start a long epepoch, or someone starts a long epepoch, about changes to the Constitution. Why would you do that? It's actually just a delay. If you want to protect farmers, small producers, what are the problems? We're making the right law, we're making a change to the Budget Code for their support, and we're making a move! And the long discussion about what the agrarian system should be is that when you make changes to the wrong Constitution, not to that article of the Constitution, you don't have to do that. Please comment, Ruslan Petrovich. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u138	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u139	Thank you. Heroim Slava! I don't want to comment on the substance of the matter, because the subject of the committee's knowledge is not essentially the subject. The consideration of the matter was essentially to be considered by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and given to our committee accordingly. And I hope that he will give us an overview of this issue, and we will, accordingly, continue to take it into account during the previous approval and adoption of the bill as a whole. The other thing is that, according to our authority, we have to follow closely the rules of the Constitution and the Rules of Constitutional Procedure. In this case, the committee cannot make any other decision. Under the Law on the Rules, we have no other alternatives. It clearly states that we are obliged to make a decision, which we did. So I don't see the committee in any way trying to stall this process. The committee simply exercises its authority properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u140	Thank you. Please return to your workplace. Guys, I'm asking you to sign up now, and colleagues, for a faction discussion. Yuri Odarchenko presents the position of the Fatherland faction. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u141	Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians! The adoption of the proposed changes to the Constitution is absolutely timely. We've all heard performances in the Supreme Council, when most of the people who are here today have offered to market the sale of land of land of agriculture on a number of occasions. So the majority that exists today, it's hard to sell land. The Fatherland faction has never supported this idea, and we are convinced that the proposed changes to the Constitution will block these intentions of selling Ukrainian land. In addition, there is now a great deal of talk about decentralization processes that have brought happiness to the entire village. Regrettably, these conversations go unexplored. No one is investigating this fact. If you look at decentralization, it's just called for the consolidation of rural councils. And now those villages that have lost the status of the village council are in fact seriously affected by the disappearance of health institutions, cultural institutions, in fact, by the rural council itself. And there is no basis for any growth points that would arise in these villages where there is no authority. When there is no school, when there is no authority, when there is no production -- no business, there can be no growth in the Ukrainian economy in this environment. Because in a village where there is no school, where there is no authority, there can only be a breeder or a shepherd. Therefore, the proposed changes to the Constitution, to our conviction, will give us a profound impetus to the development of the Ukrainian economy, to the development of agriculture, in particular, where the development of the village will be based on the resources that farmers develop in agriculture. Because if we now look at what's going on in the Ukrainian village, without looking at Groysman's hot speeches, which the Supreme Council has just tried to resign, we see that the real village is suffering, that there is no real increase in budget revenues and nothing is happening. Only those who were quick to unite received a developmental budget tax. All the other infrastructure in the village, the villages that lost the status of the village council, they suffer. When we talk about the position of the Fatherland faction, we say that every village council has to be able to get equal sources of funding at the level of the united communities. So the position of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna and the faction of Fatherland: to align the budget with all rural councils, united and unifying, and the proposed changes to the Constitution are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u142	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u143	There's time, and we'll support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u144	Please make a statement from Peter Dustock's Block. It gives Mr. Musak the right to speak. Please, Mr. Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Ukrainian community, my greetings. We are now discussing changes to the Constitution on land issues, but the history of this is simple. Listen, people are now deprived of the right to rule the earth. And we're talking about what should be the agrarian system and what big discussions we're developing here. If you want to ask people what they really want, whether they want a moratorium or not, they want a moratorium. The last presidential election made it clear that those presidential candidates who supported the land market went on the second round (as appropriate, Poroshenko and Zelenski) and those candidates who did not support the land market did not go on the second round. So the Ukrainian made his point of view clear and gave us direction as to what we should do. Now for the sake of fact, for the agricultural system, whether there should be farmers or there should be no farmers. They must indeed be all, for Ukraine is a vast agricultural state, and farmers will not even be able to cultivate a large number of land. This, of course, is now just a farmer who processes the land himself or his family. And look, what do you do to the one who has a thousand acres, two thousand acres, three thousand acres? That's actually the basis, because if we talk about growing technical cultures and other things, seismics, it's actually going to be a profitable enterprise in Ukraine that's going to be about a thousand, three thousand hectares. So, dear colleagues, if we want to do the development of Ukraine, we need to create conditions for everyone. This time. And the others. If we want to continue the story again that 18 years of Ukrainian freedom to rule the earth, let us have a big discussion as we will make changes to the Constitution. There is no need to change the Constitution, Your Honorary Colleagues, to vote in favour of the relevant laws. There's nothing hard about it. Land-handling projects are large, please support. Do we, just Ukrainians, want to buy land? No questions asked. Do Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian legal persons want to buy land? And there's no problem. Are you afraid that a foreigner will buy land? So you are not afraid, for because of the moratorium, because of the long - term lease of the land, foreigners have actually bought a large amount of land in one way or another. And that's what we need to understand. Therefore, if there is a professional discussion, it is not necessary to change the Constitution, but it is necessary to have an appropriate law. The sooner we accept it, the better it'll be for the state, because it's not just about money, it's going to be a lot of money, because it's also about extra tax revenue, and investment, it's about the dignity of people and about the honesty of people. Because it can't be that a Ukrainian abroad can buy land, and in his Fatherland, for which many people speak, fight, he is deprived of that right. This is nonsense. We're our citizen who chose us, we're actually depriving him of fundamental rights, property rights. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! And death to the land moratorium!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Alexia. Please invite Oleg Lazko to present the position of his Radical Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u147	I would advise a colleague who has just stood up for selling land, to start by introducing himself to a faction, to BPT, and secondly, to tell the Ukrainians that you are a relative of one of the country's oligarchs who rents hundreds of thousands of acres of Ukrainian land for a penny of pie and robs people by draining the environment, smashing the land and creating no social sphere. Instead, we have a different policy that we offer. Article 13 of the Constitution indicates that the land is the property of the Ukrainian people. President Poshenko’s current authorities and newly elected President Zelenski are trying to pass the land market law. Because they don't need the development of the village, they don't need people in the village, they don't need a cow, a job and everything. They need one thing: the loans of the International Monetary Fund that they're going to steal are going to take out their offshores, because they own these companies, and they're going to get the country to default. Only the land will no longer belong to the Ukrainians. I will not let you sell land in this Parliament or in the next Parliament. Our team will not allow the looting of Ukrainian peasants and the sale of land! What I was planning to do, we didn't give it to him in this Parliament. Similarly, we will not allow plans to sell land to Zelenski, which he wants to do in the new parliament. That's why we're proposing changes to the Constitution of Ukraine to write that the base of Ukraine's agrarian system should be farmers, not latifundia, not glythes, not those who charge their own pockets and, through clothing, mariopolski's ports export grains abroad instead of placing agro-processing in a village, on a hectare of leased land to give cows, to give jobs, to children of dairy appliances and tax exemptions for small family farms. Instead, they're cleaning everything up, and in living farmers, which, yes, in Ukraine really, unfortunately, not that much compared to Poland, you're campaigning for land sales. In Poland, almost a million farms that feed the whole country, and we don't even have a viable inheritance of the land that he's got, because they're collecting huge banks of land of powder and all the other land oligarchs to resell, take the land into the peasants for a penny, and sell billions and put it in his pocket. For a Ukrainian village, a different path is needed to develop Ukraine. The land, as provided for in the Constitution, belongs to the Ukrainian people. He cultivates this land, the foundation of farming is a farmer -- and the person who gives the work, returns the people to the village, returns the vitality to the village, lives to the village, and gives the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u148	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u149	It will allow you to develop the village, not to seek out how you do it today. And the last thing I wanted to say. A key question for the future country -- who will belong to the earth. I asked Prime Minister Groysman to stay and express his position. He left, didn't find time to come and say that I support farmers, and the land should belong to Ukrainians, not foreigners. We'll do it for the government. We won't let the earth be torn apart.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the BPT faction was mentioned in a negative context. B.P.P. was reminiscenced. Please give the representative of BP a minute on the line. And do not mention family ties and factions in a negative context. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u151	Dear colleague, listen to the presiding lady, she actually introduced me when I was speaking, but I'm going to repeat to you, Alexy Muschak, the Peter Dustock Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u152	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u153	So, my cousin, Mr. Andrey Verevsky, I'm not afraid of that, and I admit it. Now, see, when there's a discussion, when you don't actually have something to deny, they move on to personalities. I'll give you a simple answer. I'll give you a simple answer: there's a moratorium in Ukraine and there's big agroholdings; there's no moratorium in Russia; there's no land market; there's no agroholdings in Poland; there's no land market; there's no agroholdings in Moldova. So the question is, whose interests do you stand for? This time. The other one. When you compare, for example, Poland for a second, there's a market for land. And that's why the farmer doesn't grow technical crops, he doesn't play for a short time, and he plays for a long time: he grows gardens, berries, organics, and others. Because it takes a long-term right to own, not rent. Consider the matter, and then go out to this large rostrum and say such things. Thank you very much. Once again: death of the land moratorium!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u154	Thank you. Sir. Sir. There is no replication under the Rules. I'm asking you to sign up now for a discussion by the Ukrainian national deputies. And don't make me break the Rules. Please, a line. I'm not an abuser, I'm on guard. On the watch of our Rules. Please write down and say whatever you say on the subject of the decision under discussion. I ask you very much, not to mention your relatives. Mr. Odarchenko, please give me your word. Mr. Odarchenko! You're handing the word to the national deputy Yvchenk. Please. We'll give you six minutes for the show. And we are now continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 10 minutes. We're continuing this morning's meeting for 10 minutes. And now the word is given to Mr. Yvchenk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u155	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the state of the agricultural sector today. Seventy percent of agricultural exports are raw materials. People leave the village. Each year, the number of people who process and even want to process land is decreasing. Talented people do not find themselves in Ukraine. We do. Oleg Valeriyovich, I can't. Talented people do not find themselves in Ukraine. We're taking 127th place on the outflow of these people. State support (here is the acting minister) is given to whom? It's given to two big agrocompanies. A monopoly on mineral fertilizers and prices that are higher than in other countries! How can a Ukrainian farmer be competitive here? And what do we have in the end? As a result, we have a pseudo-legal state and we have a pseudo-market economy. In this symbiosis, there is an increase in the total corruption of the officials of the State Department, who now know where and how to do it to fill the pockets of pseudo-farmers. There are pseudoagrarian companies, pseudo-farmers who don't know how to do agrarian production. What we're offering. The first is to support the changes to the Constitution. We have to make clear what agrarian arrangements should be in Ukraine, and what should be the basis, including for the development of rural areas. I agree with the claim that all forms of farming should exist in Ukraine. But I don't want the support of the state to be given to those who take cheap loans. I want support to be given to those who really need it and without bail. Third. I'm talking to my colleagues. And please tell me, in this Parliament, when the Ukrainian farmer's laws were being considered, those laws that the Ukrainian farmer really needed? We, on the initiative of Fatherland, voted only on the laws on family farming, and we voted on the amendments to the Tax Code, where we gave them the opportunity to work in the tax field. Nothing more, nothing more for the farmer. But there are other laws today. They are today, farmers, asking to vote on the law on land of permanent use. Can't we do that for them in five years? "Paternal" calls for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u156	30 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u157	"Paternity" calls for the bill to be supported. And Fatherland calls on members of the Agrarian Committee and agrarians to gather together once and for all -- and to help farmers and agrocompanies to fight raiding, and to help farmers and agrarian companies to fight a monster like the Deergeocadastr. And by the way, I'm addressing the duty of minister. Help us work our agriculture and businesses with.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m0.u158	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the National Deputies of Ukraine and the following have called to the fore. In emotional form, they have appealed to the Presidium, and the Presidium will speak as calmly and correctly as possible, that we are discussing this draft decision in full procedure, and the MPs have requested that we allocate 15 minutes to the speeches of the Ukrainian National Deputies in order to enable all those who wish to speak here. And they also pointed out that not all factions joined the discussion. So that we may have this saved time set aside for discussion by the Ukrainian national deputies. Thus, the Presidium makes the following decision. We are now closing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and at 16 hours we will continue to consider this decision. We have a list of those who signed up for the discussion. This list begins, according to this letter, from Vuka, who transmits the word Lyszek. So I'm calling a closed morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At 16 o'clock we meet with the deputies now and continue to discuss this decision. It will begin with the speech of the national deputy Laska. Thank you.
