ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u1	Good morning. Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So I'd like you to run the registration. Please register. [[10:04:28]] 177 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, you don't read the Rules. Yes, we can open a session. And I declared the session open. Please take up jobs. Even if there was one MP, the session would be open, colleagues. So today is the birthday of our colleagues: Eugene Sergiyovich Deday (welcome with birthday) and Paul Alexander Rizanenka. Welcome to your birthday! I'd like to emphasize. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there are requirements to re-register. I'll do it again, okay? Please be prepared for registration. Everyone, please prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. So you're ready, right? I'd like you to sign up. Please register to attend. Please register. Please register. [[10:07:33]] Registered - 203 The dynamics are high. My colleagues, I would like to stress once again that the meeting begins with any number of national deputies. But if there's a wish, I'll re-register it. Please, colleagues, come into the hall. Please come into the hall. Please, colleagues, let's go in. Colleagues, return from your beds to the registration room. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. Let's register, colleagues. Please register. [[10:10:04]] It's registered - 217 Let's get to 226, colleagues. Please invite everyone to the hall. Please, Secretariat, invite all members of the National Assembly. It's 10:10. So, colleagues, please invite me to the National Parliament Hall. Please come into the hall, work is already underway. By columns, the people's deputies enter the hall. We'll have to deliver the chairs soon, there won't be any room. All right. Please. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration and please register. Let's register. [[10:11:56]] There are 229 national deputies registered. Once again, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the government are taking part in a regional development meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Hennadi Grigorovitch Zubko. Welcome to our government! Welcome, fellows! [[Applause]] And to the presentation from the Cabinet of Ministers, I invite Hennady Grigorovitch Zubka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome to you the most responsible members of the Supreme Council who are now present here in this room, and to welcome the most responsible Ukrainians who are watching us today on television in Ukraine, our national and non-state television. Now I'd just like to do a few annots and say what I'm going to do today, during my speech, a little provocation. So I think that, listen carefully, look, but you'll be able to see first what we see our European independent Ukraine in the future. And now I would like to begin my speech with exactly the kind of gratitude that I would like to turn to the very convening of the Supreme Council, which has adopted such important laws for Ukraine, has adopted those reforms that are already working today, which are producing the result today, in which our Ukrainians are working and living today, and in which they can fully formulate their development strategy, their future and the future of their children. I just want to say that this Supreme Council has adopted reforms and laws that allow us to govern our future state today. And I'm going to say a few words about decentralization reform because I think it's the same reform that changes the country's governance system. It's from the administration of a centralised Soviet system that has existed for 25 years in our independent Ukraine, and it translates our Ukraine right into the implementation of European standards in governance: it's democracy, it's the subsidiarity of power and it's the responsibility of power. Now I'd like to include, I'm not going to show great presentations today, as I always show you, but I'd like to show you three slides. And the three slides that will show you exactly where our 913 communities live today, 924 after June 30, after the last election, when an additional 66 united communities went to the polls. Now, today, 924 communities that were created in July, which are now able to work practically in the new management system. And that means they have finances, they have resources, they have the ability to put their strategy together, they have the ability to manage their future. What I would like to point out is that 70 percent of Ukrainians already live in such a system. They are Ukrainians who live both in united territorial communities and in cities of district importance and in district centers. That's the management system that works all over the European part of the world. And I would like to point out once again that it is very important for us that all sectoral reforms work in this system: education reform, primary health reform; reform that allows for the creation of new administrative services; reform that forms a new social protection; reform that allows us to see the future of an independent European Ukraine. I'd like to show you the next slide. Please turn it on. Green is the very communities that are absolutely capable and are now able not to receive basic grants but to provide reverse grants. And the blue was the communities that are made, that work, that have direct budgetary relationships, and that have the ability to plan their lives directly. I also want to say that directly. I think you'll be able to ask questions, I'll answer all the questions. On all matters, to the depth of the last community and to the last governor working today. Now I see that it is today that the reform of decentralization is of vital interest. And I would like to say that I would like once again to thank our national MPs who have joined in the adoption of very important laws and have formed a coalition of their own time. It's a faction of BP, it's a faction of the People's Front, it's a faction of the Radical Party, it's a faction of Self-Help, it's a faction of the Fatherland. It used to be, so to speak, transformed. But I thank the non-fractional deputies who supported and voted in favour of this reform. I'd like to, you know, one more moment to stop by, moving on to the forward-looking plans. Regrettably, I did not see in future lists of political parties that are running to parliament today and that are practically in the passing parts of the heads of the united territorial communities. I can say that directly, that these are the new faces that every political party should fight for. These are the people who know exactly how to create conditions, how to manage the community, how to solve issues, and how to gain trust in people in places. And I think it will be during the next parliamentary election that there will be a struggle for those people who are today the heads of the united communities. Or perhaps the heads of the united communities will form a political power that will go to parliament that will gain confidence in the Ukrainians and that will be able to carry out, support and develop Ukraine’s future. So once again, I'd like to say, we're not stopping, we'd like to, I can't go for anyone right now, but I would like to go to the electorate and say, if you see in the districts the head of a united community that today is going to the Supreme Council, please support, because these are people who know exactly how to run the community and how to run the state in the future. And I would also like to say that we're not stopping, me and my team, which includes not only our Ministry specialists and professionals, but also our Ukrainian experts, our international experts, our deputies, who are now here in the hall, our profile committee. And I want to thank the committee separately for the hard work that the laws have been supporting, and for the energy that these laws have been enacted. But we're starting consultations next week with every political force that will show a desire to reform decentralization, its state, its challenges, its future timeline, and what it will take in future Parliament to make decisions that will not only allow for the completion of the process of unification, but also for sectoral reforms, the process of delegation of powers, changes to the Constitution, the adoption of the Law on Service in Local Government Authorities, the new administrative and territorial arrangements and the new system of coordination that will allow future European Ukraine to manage. Therefore, we invite all political forces to apply next week. We are ready to meet, convince, argue and, most importantly, expect that in the future Parliament, a new coalition agreement will be drawn up precisely and a road map that will allow for a reform of decentralization of an entirely European model and prove it not only to be successful in Ukraine but also to prove it in the world. Because today decentralization reform has its own special Ukrainian model, with the best experience in European countries: Estonia is an electronic government; Sweden is a budgeting; France is a government and a service in local self-government; Poland is an administrative and territorial system; Germany is an energy efficiency and involvement of community planning. And I can talk in every country about what experience it puts into the Ukrainian model of decentralization reform. But once again, I would like to go back to this Parliament and see that in the outlook for today there are almost 82 percent of Ukraine's territory that are covered by promising plans, and that means that Ukraine is long ready to move from voluntary unification to completion of this reform and in the 20th year, to the possibility of holding local elections, putting a dot together, to allow the heads of the united communities to be selected, to form a basic regional level, a sub-regional level, and thus to bring Ukraine into the very orbit of the European states that are shaping its future. One more moment. I would like to stop and say that those laws that were passed by our team to Parliament in 2015 on voluntary community reunification, on intermunicipal cooperation, on community integration, on the redistribution of powers, on the possibility of channelling finance to the local level, on the strengthening of direct powers and on the possibility of governance, also work. I can tell you that in two quarters of 2019 local budgets have increased again and are now worth 139 billion dollars, during this current period. This means that we can absolutely go to 290 billion local community budgets by the end of this year, and this is going to be as far as last year, when it was 234 billion, to show an absolute record for all of Ukraine's existence. I would like to point out once again that today this is the convening of the Supreme Council, by adopting very important laws on decentralization, unfortunately has not been able to pass the laws that we really care about and need -- this is the Law on Service in Local Self-Government Authorities, this is the Law on Administrative and Territorial Arrangements, its principles, this Law on the Transfer of Powers to Local Self-Government (as regards land administration), this is an opportunity for investment, this is an opportunity for development. And most importantly, if we list all the possibilities that we see in local self-government, I can say that they work with sectoral reforms for only one purpose -- a goal that's called "human development," that's a goal that allows you to build absolutely quality conditions for human development in Ukraine, so that our European partners can hear it, so that you can have real, quality education, have quality medical services, have quality administrative services, have social protection and, most importantly, use the infrastructure that allows you to look at European standards. With our big team, we have now worked on new standards both in the security centers and in the new educational space and in the new kindergartens, and in the primary medical facilities (ambulatorys), and in the direction of the administrative centres that now have exactly the standards that can provide quality services, and will no longer be called in the future when there is a desk in the gym, a computer -- and it's called an administrative center. So I think it's these standards, right over here, that they're going to be implemented in communities in the future. And I can tell you that over the past five years, it's practically implemented in the direction of education, health care, infrastructure, housing, the direction of various administrative services and social services, over 8,000 projects. This is the materialization that gives communities today the opportunity for local self - government. What else would I like to say and return to the little provocation that I announced at the beginning of my speech? You see the forward-looking plans now, but I would like to show for the first time the model of our ideal European Ukraine that we would like to see in the future. This is the management system, this is the system of the administrative and territorial system that will allow us to form a basic level of communities. In a forward-looking, optimistic direction we see their capable, powerful over 1,400. We see a new sub-regional level that allows us to say that it is at a sub-regional level that we will be able to increase, only to increase the areas and numbers of people living in areas that, according to European standards, NUTS-3 can number more than 150,000 people, where we can form high-quality, powerful teams that can do exactly coordination, governance and powers that are delegated by the State at the sub-regional level, and we can see that this is the number of 92 areas, and 10 areas that are, unfortunately, in the temporarily occupied area and in the Crimea area. Nor do we forget our temporarily occupied territories and our Crimea. And I think it's this system of administrative and territorial arrangements that will allow quality management to be established that will allow Ukraine to get closer to the standards of European states, which means to human development standards, to quality service standards, to the standards of quality sectoral reforms that are being implemented in Ukraine today. And once again, I'd like to point out that this system will not only allow quality to build a management model, it will also allow us to talk about that it's the money that today is focused on 465 areas, that will enable them to get quality staff that are competent, qualified, and that will work at the sub-regional level and perform tasks. And I think it is this reform that needs not only the adoption of the laws of the new Supreme Council chamber in the future, but also the changes to the Constitution. Once again, just 5 pages, just 9 articles of the Constitution, just 133 kilobytes of information electronically can radically change the situation of Ukraine and irreversibly send Ukraine to the European Union and to the system of collective security that awaits us in European space. And that's why I think it's direct.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u3	Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u4	And that's why I'd like to say that. 5 please, yes. And that's why I'd like to say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u5	Colleagues. Mr. Hennaday, please take a break. Okay, I'll add three minutes as you ask, but before that, I have to make a message. Colleagues, I want to tell you the next order of business. Then there will be questions from factions — 25 minutes, then from deputies — 20 minutes. I would like to point out that there was an Order yesterday to Stop the Electoral Code, and we need to consider it. I'm counting, it'll take 20 minutes as well. Then the questions are read, and at one o'clock, the session is closed. So what I want to ask is, are you all in agreement with this plan of work? Everyone agrees. At one o'clock, we're working nonstop, and at one o'clock, we're closing the session. You're in, right? So, Mr. Hennaday, three more minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u6	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Shurma, for your support. And once again, I would like to say that this convening of the Supreme Council gave us another opportunity -- this adoption yesterday of the Electoral Code -- so that we can join the Supreme Council of the best representatives of local self-government, the best heads of the community, the best people who know exactly how to work with the Ukrainians who are being persuaded. And the key word is how to gain confidence in our Ukrainian citizens, because it is the struggle for trust that is now in the electoral race, which is today until July 21st in Ukraine. Again, once again, I stress that it is precisely two reforms – decentralization and energy efficiency – that this call has given rise to new importance and are implementing Ukraine to the Energy Community of European Countries, to democratic principles of governance. And I'll say one more thing. I would like to thank our international partners. Why? Because it is these two reforms that have been able to coordinate and concentrate two powerful coordination boards from our international partners working alongside us. And here I would also like to thank all the countries, the governments of all the European countries that have joined. I want to inform the very good news that the European Union will continue and support the reform of decentralization. This week, a 21st EU Eurosamite was held, which signed an additional agreement with the European Union for the second phase of the U-LEAD project, and thus we have strong support not only in words but also in the continuation of this project. And I think it's very important to thank every country that's handing over experience to Ukraine today. So separate projects of DOBRE, DESPRO, U-LEAD, GIZ, i.e. virtually a lot of projects. Well all countries, not just European countries, because today Germany, France, and Sweden, and Poland, and Germany, and Slovakia, and Spain, and Estonia, are supporting the United States, Canada. By the way, is that what I'm saying? Our heads of the community who had just returned from Canada from the Ukrainian Economic Forum, which was in Toronto, were very surprised that there are not so many powers in Canada in the local self-government that today have communities. And they came and said, "Listen, we've got a lot more authority, a lot more opportunities." And I hope there's a lot more responsibility. So once again, I would like to thank you, Mr. Head, for your national deputies. And I want to say that we hope that in the future, this reform will be a priority. And I'll be honest, and those who are very supportive of it today, and those who are supporting it or are just opening up their activities, I would definitely like them in the coalition agreement of the future parliament to draw up a really cool road map for this reform. Thanks again. And I'll see you next time.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u7	Thank you, Sir Hennadia. And let me also, on behalf of the Ukrainian Parliament and all factions, thank you for your very serious cooperation with Parliament and your great commitment to decentralization reform. During all the trips to the regions, we heard from our colleagues in the regions that the frontman of these reforms was in many ways our esteemed colleague Hennadi Zubko. And we are proud to have worked with you on the same team. Guys, thank you so much. Guys, I'm asking you to sign up for a question from factions and groups. Postfaction later, then, Mr. Bereza. Friends, please have the first question from Mr. Shahov, who represents the will of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u8	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know who to turn to anymore. Once again, miners were left underground and without wages. Again, mothers and children will be taking food from shops in debt in the storebooks of the miner’s Day. Children will not be able to greet their parents. Summer vacations, kids don't go to camps. Please tell me, when this is over, the abuse of Ukrainian coal miners who are giving us this electricity? Second of all, he came back from the county yesterday. Please tell me, I've called you repeatedly on the way to Zorinivka. Three villages today, and the village of completely Milov is without water, without roads. We have to go around the fields, on the black land. There is no fire engine, no ambulance, people die in their villages, and there is no one to reach. How long is this vachanal going to go on? (Possible? )
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u9	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u10	I used to go to that road all the time. Please tell me, who was she in the 400 - foot [400 m] traffic, and now people need to travel 200 km to visit their relatives and parents to visit their families ’ graves? Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u11	Please, Mr. Hennadia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the people's deputies who took part in the budget committee this Wednesday and who have made the decision that is very important to the Ukrainian miners. I'll say we've taken part in this. Because, unfortunately, the government budget that was to go to the public budget and the regional development fund, 500 million, was directed at the salaries of miners. I'll say it's an operational issue. But we need to think in the next call and in Parliament about a radical change in our approach to coal and security, and the question of how to build government mines, and the issue of privatization, and the question of optimizing these mines. Because that story, which now has a permanent grant, with a constant delay in the payment of wages, does not provide for anyone: no government, no miners, no local self - government. What is involved in health care in rural areas. You know that it was directly our government that started the reform of rural medicine. It was initiated by this convening of the Supreme Council, which supported the Law of Peter Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, on the development of rural medicine. And it is now 517 outpatient clinics, which by new standards allowing quality medical equipment to transfer data to the district center and district center, started in Ukraine. There should be 4 thousand 332 outpatients. One and a half thousand outpatients are already equipped. And I think it's direct, except that we have to move around and rebuild the infrastructure of the local roads, and you know that they're in such a very bad state, not one year, but virtually the entire time of independence. And I think that the immediate and future government, and the future composition of the Supreme Council, will continue with such an important reform that makes it possible to pay today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u14	To pay a decent salary to our family doctors, to create an infrastructure where you can in good quality and under energy efficiency conditions, and in water supply, water supply to provide services, to have quality equipment, to have quality transportation that allows you to go around an outpatient area and to reach all the locations that enter the station, and thus to create a new basic system that will allow you to approach people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u15	Thank you. Please ask Mrs. Ostrkova from the Self-Help faction. Please, Mrs. Auntie.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u16	Good afternoon! Everyone thanks today, and I thank you, Gennady Grigorovich, for the great work you've done on the decentralization side. And, in fact, in cooperation with our faction, with Alona Babak, so many bills and important initiatives have been implemented. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister of Ukraine, although he does not exist, for being under great pressure, but he has decided to divide the DFS into taxes and customs as organs with very different functions. And so far this reform is taking place, creating new tax and customs services. And here's what I'd like to say to the Minfin police, which I, by the way, don't see in the hall today. What happens now after the President's tour of customs in the Western region? Dismissed, suspended customs officials. But who was appointed by the Old State Fiscal Service? These are their old, "verified" (feet) frames, the employees of the central apparatus. I'm asking the government, while it's still serving as a government, to review this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u17	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u18	Mrs. Irina, thank you. I demand that the government review this decision by the head of the DFS to appoint his old audited personnel at this customs office. In addition to customs officials, there is a need to look closely at their deputies, since there are also certain tasks that are not entirely legal and that of customs officials. So let's do the whole reform, not the dot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u19	Thank you, madame Ostrikova, for the information you provide, in principle. The only thing I'd like to say is that, on the other hand, I'd like to thank Minister of Finance, Oksana Markarovy, who has actually managed to have these powers distributed first. Today we have a separate government fiscal service and customs service. We expect new leaders to make important decisions. And what I'm saying is that it's with the Ministry of Finance that we've been able to open budgets today, and I think we're still going to be able to give local self-government the opportunity to look at the open system, and who's really from enterprises how much they pay to local budgets. And this will allow you to support companies that actually pay full taxes that don't hide behind excise duties or other taxes that go to local budgets. But there's still a lot of work to do. I fully agree with you that today's old system, which, so to speak, has an impact on the appointment of personnel decisions. And you've seen what happens to us when we get out of one place, and then he shows up at some Volin customs office, and then he does the duty, then he goes to the hospital. And the system really has its resistance. And here I can only say that today, Finance Minister Oksan Markarov, the new head of the State Fiscal Service, Mr. Werlanov, the Nephrods, they're doing exactly what they're doing, including making human resources decisions. All it takes is a little time. And I think that the work that I've shown today, customs, the misappropriation of the State budget for the first half of the year, is practically 7 billion, no one's doing it. So thank you for that question. And I think we're going to make it a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u20	Thank you. Please, next question is Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u21	For this convening of Parliament, I have asked many questions of the government. Today, perhaps the last issue of this government in this Supreme Council. In the new Supreme Council, we will likewise demand that the government do not rob people of normal life. And that's why I have a traditional question for you guys: when are you guys going to make tariffs available to people? Can't you see that the pricing policy in the utility sector has led to a defeat? $70 billion in utility debt, 1 out of every 3 families in Ukraine cannot pay for a utility. The way you've come up with subsidies, you have to get the kids out of the house to get that grant. People actually don't have any investment in energy-generating, in upgrading basic housing and utility funds. Don't you realize that blind compliance with the requirements of the International Monetary Fund is a road to collapse? When you finally start to pursue the kind of policy that makes it possible to develop, to modernize and to make people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u22	Please give me your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u23	First of all, I want to thank the Radical Party faction for its fundamental, consistent support for decentralization reform and energy efficiency reform, which is part of reducing the impact from gas supply to Ukraine. And that's the question -- it's the same thing as independence, energy dependency and energy efficiency. I can share your concern about our citizens who are actually carrying a heavy burden today on the tariffs associated with the implementation of the Law on the Market in Gas. I can say that a huge burden has just fallen on the middle and small business, on those citizens who are getting enough wages to pay their utilities responsibly today, and frankly, they are actually paying 97 percent of their tariffs. And it's for these citizens that I can say that the state is moving towards, by introducing both "heat" loans and the Energy Efficiency Fund, and the ability to support 50-70 percent of grants that are not given to the state today, and thanks to the Supreme Council, including the Radical Party, which has made these decisions on financing such grants, that our international partners, which today have given more than 3 billion dollars to the multi-donor fund, which will co-finance the direct implementation of energy efficiency in the multi-floor sector. Because that's where the most monopolistic utilities that deliver heat are affected. On the other hand, we're not stopping today to check out all utility companies that provide heat services, their owners, their property, where they're registered, in which offshores, about the withdrawal of money from companies, not the payment of gas from Naftogazu, about the failure to implement 217 Order. And that's where the government is working today. On the other hand, we also understand that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u25	On the other hand, we also understand that today the subsidy system needs to be improved and we need to look at exactly where there are really families that need state aid, but unfortunately for some reason they have not received it. And here's the question really before the new heating period to look around and see again what we can do. On the other hand, I'll tell you what we need to do to make the economy work. And here we also talked with the Radical Party about what, in restoring the Ukrainian economy, we can only do one thing: increase the income of our citizens, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u26	30 seconds to complete, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u27	Which will allow us to get out of energy poverty. And the last thing I want to say is that we only see one way to cut tariffs is to reduce energy consumption. Then we're going to depend not on the cost of the gas, but on how much we consume it. And that's why I think that the cooperation that was in this office will allow the future parliament to build a proper road map for doing the tasks that you've been talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u28	Thank you. Thank the Radical Party for its activity. And, of course, we thank Mr. Zubek. And now, please, the People's Front faction. Question from Mrs. Katzer-Buchovsky's faction will ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u29	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, government officials! First of all, it is very useful to hear discussions about gas tariffs. And we can discuss tariffs when we have this gas. Since 2014, we have consistently fought for the energy independence of the state and have done everything to enable Ukrainians to obtain Ukrainian gas, gas through reverse. And today, in fact, Ukraine is energy independent. But very many steps are yet to be taken. And last week we confirmed the winners of the investment in Ukrainian gas. And today, I'm asking the government to start signing contracts with investors that will bring more than $1.5 billion to the economy in the first five years and also provide Ukraine with Ukrainian gas for two or three years. It's also very important to buy gas for the winter period. And also think about how to put "Elangi" in Ukraine and make Ukraine even more energy independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u30	Have you finished your questions? Please respond, please. Yes, yes, please, Mr. Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u31	First of all, I want to thank all the people's deputies who work both at the Energy Committee and at the Housing Committee. There's also Mrs. Aloni Babak, and you, Mrs. Katzer-Buchkowska, and Mrs. Vojcitsky, who also takes an active part, and Mr. Dombrowski, who heads the committee, and everyone else, who joins in a very difficult reform to make our country energy independent. You can make the country energy independent when market conditions work, both in the direction of the electricity market, and the gas market, and the ability to buy it, which can allow the diversification of gas supply from European countries. Once again, I would like to point out that many more steps are needed to do so. And those steps that are also being taken today by the government that are being followed by national MPs that allow for real investment today and in the production of Ukrainian gas, and that allow Ukraine to join the diversification of natural gas supply, Elangi gas, are very important. But on the other hand, what I'm saying is that it's really important for us to make decisions about NAC Naftogaz's Endangerment. What we really need in order to diversify and enable this market to work is for companies that can supply gas, we need to take further steps in the monetaryisation of subsidies so that they can directly go out and compete for prices for the population directly to those companies that are able to enter the market. And lastly, we have a very difficult discussion, very difficult negotiations on gas transit in Ukraine. I think that right here is NAC Naftogaz and the MPs that are joining us, and the Ministry of Fuel and Energy are working. I think you can separately prepare a query and get all the information in addition to that. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u32	Thank you. And please, from the Peter Dust Block faction of Oksana Jurinec. Your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u33	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I want to thank you, just like all my colleagues, for the work that has been done in recent years. But knowing that we're probably going to leave today, and you're going to stay in the formation of the next government and work actively, and I know that from the mid-term, I want to ask a question, or even a request like this, about support, specifically, about people, about what's happening directly to my city, and this is a reconstruction of John Frank University Stadium. It's very important to develop sports infrastructure, because it's through collective sports that we're going to be able to teach our young people today and be more active and compete in, in fact, sports courses, in stadiums, not elsewhere. So I would very much ask, perhaps a very simple question, but which attracts attention and is very close to people. So please take control, knowing that the next two months will be active work, so please pay very close attention, to help make it work. And I know that together, together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u34	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u35	If we want to change the country, we can do it. Therefore, success and genuine, fruitful work are to come! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u37	Thank you for this question to you too, Mrs. Jurynec, for the active position that you support not only the University of Lviv, Franka, and in general the active position that allows us to talk today about the fact that it is in the direction of sports infrastructure that major disruptions have actually been made. It was this Parliament that made very many decisions to support sports infrastructure. I also met with the rector of our Lviv University, by the way, very many graduates are present today in both this room and this room. And I think in a lot of business today, there are those successful people who graduated from the University of Lviv. And the rector, his active position, your active position will allow us to complete this project. But on the other hand, what I want to say is that it was this Parliament that made a decision that allowed for the practical restoration, reconstruction and construction of 47 large-scale stadiums, more than one and a half thousand children's mini-ball fields, which today allow us to look at the victory of our collective U-20 in the world championship. And this is just the example of when, by bringing together the Supreme Council, the government, local self-government, we can create that infrastructure that will allow children to speak the same language, play one football, and win not only the U-20, but also win the adult world championships. And I want to thank you again and tell you that this has happened, perhaps, to you. I can say that only in the Donetsk region during this time have there been as many football courses as Ukraine has not built throughout independence. And it is by your decision, your persistence, your activity, your creativity and positiveness today that allows you to move towards the development of local self-governance and the development of the sports infrastructure of local self-governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, one of our most active deputies from the Opposition Block. Please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u39	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear government officials, however we may wish, today is the last day of our cooperation, and in civilian life they say that in general the dead cannot be spoken ill of: either good or no good at all. Taking into account the new illustrative initiatives and your future, I want to tell you one thing: you will become ordinary citizens of Ukraine, you will look at your reforms, you will go to law school, you will go to school, you will be retired, you will pay for gas and light, you will drive on the road -- and you will appreciate the result of your work. I want you to have it. In order for you not to have "full Suprun" in your life, I have to tell you one thing: And I wish you, you know, to stay in people's lives and be able to look them in the eye. Personally, I want, no matter what, to thank Vladimir Borisovich Groissman sincerely, because there are things he's done well, and I thank him personally. No answer is needed. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u40	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u41	I call on you as a 22-year-old civil servant, you know, you'll have an interesting future. In the last days there is always a temptation to do something wrong. Don't do anything stupid, so you don't have to be pulled by the power structures and there's no problem with NAZK. Not at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, the answers, I would still urge a colleague, well, not to use words like "trumpets" in terms of our colleagues. That's the first one. And secondly, as we understand from the statement, Mr. Igor, under the illustration and you are. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u43	Mr. People's Deputy! Once again, gentlemen of the people, I want to inform you that we have, under the Constitution of Ukraine, the continuity of power. And if anyone is thinking of leaving the National Deputies on vacation tomorrow, I want to disappoint you a little bit: you will continue your authority to accept in this Hall a new call by the National Deputies. And direct cooperation, cooperation and government, and your calling will continue until an oath is taken here. That's the first one. The other one. I can say that today we have over 32,000, yes, family doctors, Paul? How much? Twenty-four. I'm sorry, yes, 24 thousand family doctors are pediatricians, therapists, family doctors. I suggest that each of you choose your family doctor, as I did myself, see him, look at him -- and, finally, put together your route map, how to go through maybe dissipation, or maybe examination, or maybe there's some medical consultation. I want to say that as citizens we use roads every day, we as citizens use the services of commerce networks every day, and every day we are also ordinary citizens who visit museums and theatres and cultural institutions, and also see life not only from the high cabinets of ministers. And I would also like to say that it's our cooperation that makes it possible to talk about what the illustration really, maybe make to any person and make any decision in this room, but it's impossible to do the illustration for those reforms that have been started since 2014 that have been difficult to make, but are now so strongly supported by the citizens of Ukraine. And that's why I think it's necessary to look not directly at the lives of every official, but at the perspective of the future of European Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u44	Thank you for being correct, my dear colleague. And now the word is given to ask questions from the Fatherland faction to our colleague Rybchin. Please, Mr. Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u45	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. Welcome to the conclusion of this Supreme Council's office. And I'd like to give the floor to Mrs. Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel's best business advocate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear government, you will really go to people, but not like you said you feel like people. You have a different financial situation with people, and when people get 1300-3200, and you get 200 million per month, you don't drive these roads, you fly helicopters. Mr. Zubko, the only problem is, what did 25 percent of all OTG do? Because you're not distributing at the bottom, the population's initiative is going, they're taking the district centers. And you divide OTG into farmers, into money, and that's the problem. Give as much as you can to the people. This is Fatherland's position. And the question is. You know, there's an entrepreneurial rebellion in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u47	Please, Mrs. Alexander, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u48	That was three minutes! Turn it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u49	30 seconds. All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u50	It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u51	For everyone's question was one minute, Mrs. Alexander. But we're going to add one more minute to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u52	Thank you. All Ukrainian entrepreneurs are now collecting signatures that as of July 1, you are raising the cost of electricity by 35 percent. This is a decline in the purchasing power of the population. Oh. What are you going to do about the budget? You've already ruined a small and medium-sized business. There's an offer by President Greensky to stop the Power Market Act. Today, the owner of electricity sells it abroad cheaper than they get to Ukraine. Make a decision and do what is right for people to feel comfortable among the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u53	Thank you. Thank you for asking. And, Mrs. Alexandro, thank you, indeed, very much, for all of us, for your active legislative work to protect entrepreneurs and protect Ukraine. And please answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. It's really, really relevant, and I'd like to give you maybe not two, but three minutes. First of all, I would like to go to all the people's deputies and thank them -- those who supported decentralization reform know exactly how it works. Because a unique model of voluntary unification, such as five years in Ukraine, did not exist anywhere in Europe. And it was the voluntary union, the decision-making, the discussion of communities among themselves, how and how they can unite, that made it possible to restore the historical memory of our communities, which were not only united in one area but were united within two districts, three districts. And this allowed for the restoration of the historical memory that had existed before Soviet Ukraine. And I think the model that works here is successful, and the volunteerness that was present has exhausted its capabilities. The other one. What is involved in market conditions and laws that were adopted by this very calling of the Supreme Council. And the electricity market that was adopted by the people's deputies and the gas market that was adopted -- these are the laws that started to work today. I can say that unfortunately, the Supreme Council has not found an opportunity to regulate the very laws that we insisted on. This is Law 9026 on the regulation of the electricity market, when we had water companies put in conditions when it was necessary to get a month and a half for our services to pay a subscription. This is a question of protection, 10228 The Law is a question of the protection of a company, a community enterprise called Donbas Water, which today, as a humanitarian product, places water on a temporarily occupied territory. And there are many laws that allow us to enforce laws that prevent us from exerting pressure on our inhabitants, utilities, and businesses. It's June 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u55	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u56	Since July 1st, the Power Market Act has really entered. We talked and wrote our concerns about his entry into action as the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, regional development in all institutions. Including this issue, we discussed it at a joint meeting of the National Security Council. And unfortunately, we also have questions about how, in the new market conditions, new prices are going to set a tariff on how the market will react, how utilities will pay the subscription, and also these questions are raised. Now what we're seeing is, yes, actually today, electricity prices have risen. And I want to say that we also have to deal with this. Where did they go? They went up to the transporters, they went up in generating power, or did they just rise up because new conditions were accepted? And I think that this question, how and where they went up, also needs to be considered. Next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u58	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u59	Please give me one more minute to answer Mrs. Kugel's question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u60	And the last question, which is also very important. Today, these are the terms and conditions for the supply of contracts. Today, small and medium - size businesses who consume up to 200 kilowatts are hit by flashbacks because contracts they received from transporters now contain 49 percent of the fines for the lack or uptake of electricity. So directly, I think that here is an independent commission that, as a regulator, has to respond to the issues of the terms of the contracts that are being concluded today, and the question of how prices are going to rise should respond. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u61	Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, have completed questions from MP groups and factions. And now, as our esteemed Head of the Supreme Council has announced, we have 20 minutes to ask questions from the Ukrainian national deputies. Mr. Krivenko, this is a recording by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please sign up. Mrs. Captain Olena, your question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Olena Sotnik. I have a question for the Ministry of Energy. I honestly don't see who's sitting in the lobby. I have a question. Please report what the government is doing in the event of the Russian Federation’s scenario on the elimination of Ukraine’s gas transit since 1 January 2020. And what about this, do we have a plan for a normal gas supply today? And that goes for, by the way, electricity. Are we making an additional 20 billion cubic meters of gas implanted to ensure normal functioning for this period of Ukrainian realities? And is there any work to be done today on the preparation of the GTS in the event of a decommissioning of transit that the government is doing in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to continue to answer the question that Mrs. Katzer-Buchovska asked and to say that the government is working today on the question of continuing transit of gas through Ukraine. The largest consumer today is in the European Union. The European Commission is involved in joint negotiations. Negotiations are being held at the level of representatives in July, and negotiations are scheduled to take place in September at the level of the European Commission, which will also be attended by the European Commission. So I think it's an immediate question about negotiation procedures, this is a question about the extension of gas transit, this is a question that concerns the insertion of gas in the gas shelter, and you know that this process is continuing, and today NAC Naftogaz is purchasing gas. I think you can send out the information that you're interested in directly as a member request, and you'll get it in full detail in the DSK documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u64	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Romanova, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u65	Good afternoon. I have a question about the government regarding our actual vacation time for Ukrainian citizens. The vacation is about to begin, and many are watching where to rest. And of course, as statesmen, we would like Ukrainians to rest in Ukraine, thereby filling our economy. But the thing is, I'm not going to talk about roads anymore, I'm going to talk about Crucifixion. Perhaps you know that since January 1, 19th, the Crucifixion introduced a fee for group booking tickets. That's exactly what we're doing. There is no such thing anywhere in the world. If there are discounts in the world for group booking, then in Ukraine any demand is killed. And does the Crucifixion have any strategy at all for the development of passenger transport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u67	Dear National Deputy Mrs. Romanova, I thank you very much for this question. Because indeed, the development of tourism infrastructure in Ukraine is a huge source of arrivals to Ukraine. And we see, where, for example, RYANAIR came into existence, we see an increase in local budgets, an increase in citizens' income. And I think it's the development of the transport sector, and this isn't just about the railway, it's about the aviation connection, it's going to be able to involve more Ukrainian citizens who are going to be resting in different parts of Ukraine. I can say that, you know, we did statistics and found that only 20 percent of the Levites were in Kharkiv. We see that only 50 percent of the inhabitants were in Kiev. And if you look at how many Ukrainians have gone abroad and abroad in general, it's not so much that it really says that transport connections today allow you to develop the tourism industry. And I think it's directly the development of this area, it's going to provide an additional source. On the point of booking tickets, I'll give the word to Victor Dougany, yes. And he might give a more specific answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u68	Thank you. I'm going to ask you, Mr. Zubko, to bet in a minute that more deputies ask questions because they want to take this chance today. Please, Mr. Clumsy, your question. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that somewhere in the 16th year for the purposes of the VSU in the company "Agrinol", whose direct beneficiary is, according to the media, the National Deputy of Ponomarov, has been acquired oil materials, 350 tons. Everyone knows that then, as a result of the use of these materials, 20 tanks were brought out of line. It is officially established that the manufacturer of this motor oil is the Russian-Ukrainian scientific manufacturing company Agrinol, which according to the media has a bearing on the National Deputy Ponomarov. Please tell me how many more years it takes for us to find out who's involved in Ponomarov before. Or who's involved? They are now actively involved in the election campaign. He's going to be the third time a deputy and then there's going to be a blackout with no touch and all that. Is there an investigation in progress on this issue, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I think we can put this together right now. You're ready to answer, aren't you? No, there's no information. I think we're going to form this as a parliamentary question. On the other hand, we expect that the future parliament will still vote on the issue of removing the inviolability and will put representatives of the government, the Supreme Council and our ordinary citizens under one condition. And then the question, so to speak, of going to the Supreme Council for parliamentary immunity is going to remove all aspects in general. What I think today is that inadequate supplies that have been made to the Ministry of Defense, I think that they will be investigated directly by law enforcement agencies and that you can get some information as a matter of the MP's request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, the next question is Borislav Bereza.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u73	Mr. Zubko, it happened that on May 17 I asked Mr. Groissman, who is probably wearing an invisible hat today, because no one can see him, the question of when you call off a letter from Kabmin, allowing you to work all the lottery tickets that you have now. Mr. Troyan can confirm (a deputy minister of the interior) that it is this letter that prevents law enforcement authorities from shutting down gambling facilities on the streets of Ukraine. So the question was then asked. There was no answer. At the next meeting here on questions to the government, I already asked Mr. Kubeva, who is also absent today: When will you cancel that letter? He's not here today. I'm asking you one last question: why don't you cancel that letter so that we can clean up these playgrounds from the streets of our cities with the police? Either you're cracking it, or you're making a fool of yourself. They'll be taken out anyway. Please do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u74	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u75	Thank you for asking, Mr. People's Deputy. I'm so impressed that you're asking your question, you're just kicking the government members out of the government's bed on question day. Because after your question, we simply do not appear in a government bed who should answer you. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Finance in connection with this letter. I'm just, I'm sorry, I don't know. I'm aware of what lotteries are doing today, that our teenagers are disappearing there today, that today is a psychological impact on people who play slot machines, and that we need to put order in this. I totally agree. Let's get a letter, please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u76	Please turn on the microphone for Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u77	Yeah. Stop beating people out of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u78	We've received your request. The answer will be given. In particular, the Ministry of Finance and the government in the broader configuration have repeatedly called attention to the imperfections of existing regulation in the gaming business. We've been drafting a government bill, and several MPs are on the Council's agenda. These bills have not come to the fore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u79	Cancel the letter! Just cancel the letter! All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u80	Dear Mr. Borislav, many other colleagues would like to ask a question. Yes, my friends, please form Mr. Borislav's question as a parliamentary address to the Ministry of Finance and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And we remind you that Parliament is working to gain the power of a new Parliament. We look forward to a concrete answer then to this question, and I will then direct the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Borislav Berezi, to my esteemed, highly respected colleague. Thank you. Please, the next question is Mrs. Hopko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. After the Dignity Revolution, given that Janukovic left the country without any money at all, and I would like to remind the citizens that we succeeded in falling to ensure GDP growth and macroeconomic stability. At the same time, the question of deligarchization of many sectors remains obsolete, particularly in the energy field. Also, colleagues, I very much hope that we will see this government before a new government is formed, will show plan B in case of blackmail on the part of the Russian Federation regarding the continuation of gas supply in Ukraine. I would also like to point out that it is important to complete the construction of the new OHMADDIT. In this call, we saw how the blood supply center, as well as the radiological department, where diagnostics are already taking place, and that the construction of the National Children's Hospital will be above politics and that the next government and parliament will finally give children a modern children's hospital. Well, and Marshall's plan for Ukraine, an investment plan with new deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u82	Please finish. Thank you, and thank you for advancing Ukraine's interests, Mrs. Hopko. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u83	Well, first of all, I don't know how to answer in two minutes so many big questions asked by Mrs. Hopko's national deputy. But on the other hand, I would like to thank the entire international bloc of our Supreme Council for the results and for the decisions that have been made that allow Ukraine to defend itself on the international front. And here, specifically, I would like to thank all of our members in Paris who stood up for Ukraine, who were protecting it, who are continuing their work, so to speak. On the other hand, I want to say about OHMATDIT. Yes, indeed, there is a shift, but we should clearly say that today's reform of the medical sector becomes question number one. Centers such as OHMATDIT should have several centers in Ukraine. Today we are talking about a new network of primary medicine. Today we're talking about a new network of hospital districts that should also acquire virtually the quality that is now only in the district centers. We need to talk about development, not just the examination, but also the provision of medical services. And I think it's the work of unifying the hospital districts directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u84	Thank you for your answer. Dear colleagues, I think we've demonstrated success in the international front because we've worked together government and parliament. Please, next question, Mr. Schwerk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I would like to continue on international issues. I also want to thank the government. From my point of view, the government, under the leadership of the President and in cooperation with the Supreme Council, has made great progress in the international arena. But a few days ago, in my view, it was a very covert case where the vice president of European integration did not become a party to the action for which she was directly responsible. So I have a question, unfortunately, I have to ask Mr. Zubko, but I have a question. Is this a sad mistake, or is it a conscious decision? Then I want to know who made this conscious decision? And what was the motivation of this conscious decision that the Vice Prime Minister did not take part in the action for which she was responsible? Well, oddly enough, I thought our government always worked as one team. Maybe it's already there.?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u86	Please respond. This was, indeed, the first precedent in Ukraine when the Prime Minister's professional vice-prime minister was not allowed to attend the summit of Ukraine-EU, which was preparing a professional office, in many ways prepared by this summit office of the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u87	Well, what I'm saying is that the 21st summit of Ukraine, the EU, really went to Kiev. We have a very good result. We signed six agreements on cooperation with the European Union. And these agreements allow us not only to continue our European integration but also to continue our cooperation with the European Union. And I would like to say that there's a signed U-LEAD Phase Two Agreement. We had the opportunity on this day to sign an agreement between the Energy Efficiency Fund and the IFC International Finance Corporation on co-financing energy efficiency projects. And I can say that the issues that have been discussed directly are the fulfilment of Ukraine's obligations to the European Union and the possibility of further cooperation on the energy sector, because today the European Union is the largest consumer of gas transit through Ukraine, and the issues that are needed to talk about the implementation of the Agreement with the European Union have indeed been discussed. The issues are not part of this summit of Vice-Prime Minister of Euro-Integration Ivana Klimpus-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u88	Please finish 30 seconds
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u89	It really was a surprise for us. Why, because I learned about it when I was in the middle of the summit. Directly, I think this is where we need to sort things out in the organization itself. Why? Because she was on the delegation list. How did the situation happen that it didn't happen, I think it's a separate question that we can make and then we'll figure it out to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u90	I ask Mr. Sverk's questions to the Office of the President and to the Office of the Prime Minister of Ukraine as a deputy address. And we'll be waiting for an answer. Next question, Mr. Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u91	Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Doñecina. It is a pleasure to have the right to make such a final statement to the government. Questions to the government. You and I were champions, the Supreme Council and the government, according to green reforms. We've made the Energy Efficiency Fund. I hope it works this year. We've made the buildings energy efficient. They've launched an energy service that people are making money on this and they're reducing their energy efficiency. We've launched an energy market. Energy cooperatives supported it. Ukrainians buy the cheapest electric cars in Europe, and they passed the law yesterday. The "green" tariff was optimized. We have "warm" loans. We became the first, one of the first parliaments in the world to ratify the Paris Climate Agreement. However, Ukraine is still one of the most energy - efficient countries in the world. Would you please say, perhaps, from the height of your past years and experience, what can the next government do? Maybe change the structure of the government so that we don't just have individual ministers dealing with these issues, but an energy-efficient government. Maybe an additional structure, as we have a vice-premier for Euro-integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. Maybe add energy efficiency to green development. What you can say to make up your mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u92	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u93	That's why I'm here. Ukraine reduced energy consumption, increased energy dependency, was greener, greener. What can be done at the executive level to make these processes more effective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u94	First of all, I would like to thank all the deputies who have worked and who have supported and implemented reforms in energy efficiency and renewable sources, Mr. Alexei, as the head of the subcommittee that directly dealt with these issues. But what I'd like to say is that there's a huge road map that we have to keep doing. You've made a huge list of issues that have been made, and this really gives us an opportunity to talk about implementation and implementation of the 31 Directives, the beginning of implementation of the 27 Directive of the European Union. But there is still much work to be done before the Third Energy Package is fully joined. And if we are ready to send it to Parliament today, the only thing we don't understand right now is whether we need to transfer it or whether we need to wait. This is the Energy Efficiency Act, which is the general law that implements the 27 Directive, which responds not only to energy efficiency in the housing sector, but to energy efficiency in transport, in energy, and in industry. And there's a huge amount of work that needs to be done to make Ukraine really the champion of energy efficiency that it is today on investing in renewable energy sources. You know that Ukraine today is practically number one after investing in solar and wind energy. But we really need to answer those questions about implementation of the 27 Directives, how do small- and medium-sized businesses get involved in introducing industrial energy efficiency, how do we make energy efficiency in transport, and especially in the energy sector that needs to be modernised. And here, I think that directly both the Supreme Council and the government should work to ensure that the programs that work for the housing sector today, as a grant support, can also work to support the small and medium-sized business of introducing energy efficiency. I would also like to pay attention to the issue of environmental tax. Because today, frankly, the local self-government that receives the environmental tax is not interested in reducing the number of discards, but is interested in getting that tax. We need to look at the paradigm of giving part of this tax back to these companies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u95	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u96	Which reduces their discards, and it's part of the expenditure that they're going to invest in their modernization. So there's a lot of work to do, and I thank you for the suggestion that this topic needs to be given the utmost attention to the future of the government and to the future of Parliament. The United States today spends $10 billion a year as an investment in energy efficiency. We need to watch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u97	Thank you. Mr. Gennady, you can pass the laws to us, the projects, we'll still have a chance to collect a few extra thematic sessions, and one of them might be on the subject of energy conservation. Colleagues, two final questions. Ostrika’s Tetjana and Palamarczuk pass it on to Krivenkov. Two final questions, then we have yet to go to the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the entire draft Electoral Code, and we still have a great ambition to consider another decision and make a decision on it. And so two questions -- and let's move on to the decision. The first is Ostrika's Tetjana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u98	Dear members of the government, we understand that this office of the Supreme Council is coming to an end, there will be elections soon. However, the budget code has already begun or the budget process should begin. We would still like to see, despite the fact that the cadence is ending, the budget declaration, and according to the changes we have voted, this budget declaration should be for three years. We are concerned about how the country will be part of the budget process for 2020-21-22. We'd like to understand what the dollar rate is going to be, what the inflation is, what the rates, what the revenue-gathering plans, and what the expenditure proposals that come from privatization, how much there will still be to supplement the revenue from overcoming the tariff schemes that everyone is talking about now from the Prime Minister to the President, and the visa and now there, we have a budget deficit. Please respond to the sustainability of the budget process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u99	First of all, I would like to thank our people's deputies for adopting the amendments to Ukraine's legislation, which allows Ukraine to finally move today to planning and drawing up a three-year budget resolution. The government is working and has a budget resolution that responds to the next three years, which will be macroeconomic indicators, which will be the minimum wage, which will be the level of inflation. And so we're practically on that road map, showing both Ukrainian citizens and the Supreme Council, and business, as we see the three-year budget planning strategy. I can say that all ministries have put forward their proposals on budget programmes, on support costs, including all the reforms that are being implemented today as sectorally as they are, namely, education, health and administrative matters, and reforming the public sector of the economy, and decentralization issues, and local self-government. And I think that together, if you want to, we have a continuous process to join in. And we are ready as a government to enter into our responsibilities and within the deadline to submit the budget declaration, the draft budget by September 15. But on the other hand, I would like to say that the very decisions that allow today to talk about the three-year budget resolution will also allow today and our local self-government to start planning. And once again, I would like to thank our people's deputies for this important, courageous decision that allows us to move on to planning. The European Union today plans for 7 years and adopts the budget. Ukraine finally went from 1 year to 3 years of planning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u100	Thank you. And a final question. Palamarczuk will pass the word for Krivenka's question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u101	Thank you, Mr. Head. It is symbolic to have the final question of the eighth call session. First question. You spoke correctly, Hennady Grigorovich, about the importance of decentralization, but there are a few questions. The first is, for example, the question of roads. Some of the city's chiefs, Gadjača Nesterenko, Piratina – Rybokon, Lochvici – Radko, Chernouk – Vasilko, are repairing 450-480 bracelets per square meter, and once outside the community, as soon as this state level of re-establishment, we have 800 dollars. It's a request: to send a commission, and you've seen in the Gaddewsky district, TSN has shown what a terrible condition with roads. The second question is very important and very critical. In half an hour, public hearings are held in Zadrovska. The government has approved a promising plan, where there is no factory OTH, that is, the factory city is actually joined by the Lochwiecki OTH, also by the city. The city’s head Lochvitsa understands that this is the wrong direction. I spoke to the head of the district council today, Mr. Bielenko, and he doesn't object either. If we're saved and there's a compromise option -- it's stored by the Tokarovska OTH, it's formed by the factory and it's formed by the Lochvitsky, well, it's kept by the Lochvitsky community, it's going to be on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u102	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u103	There will be a district council meeting on Friday. The U.S. government has now rescinded its proposals on a forward-looking basis. Requesting an order to have the management prepare for a future plan for the establishment of a factory community in a timely manner. On Wednesday I spoke about it and with Mr. Kubi at the budget committee meeting, and he also supported it, yesterday in Reschetilovka, as far as I know, he was talking about it too. There is the agreement of the district council, and there is the determination of the community. It's a very critical question, please take him into control. Thank you. And thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Victor. I'd like to say that I would ask you to actually form this as a parliamentary request. Yesterday I received a message on Facebook about the factory OTG, and I can say that it is really important for us to make decisions about communities, how to unite. This is the Poltava region, yes. So now I'm going to assign a task to our department of profile, to the Directorate, so that they can pay attention to that, and now we're going to try to regulate that decision. But in addition, I need a request to get it documented, so to speak. Absolutely, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u106	And what applies to roads at all, yes, the local value and their value. You know, I think that every time we send a commission to figure out how, how much money has been spent, they have an ambitious task, but then they come and they don't give the answer that could satisfy and clearly understand why the cost is going up. That's why I see, and there's only one solution. Please, we need to make decisions on how to transfer these roads to the local level, allowing local self-government to conduct tenders, so to speak, the possibility of repairs, the operation of roads, and this will allow more control at the level of local self-government at work, at the cost of work and at the responsibility of those responsible. So this is going to be more effective, so to speak, than every time we're going to send a commission and hear some incomprehensible answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u107	Thank you. I'm asking you to form a question of Krivenk as a member of parliament. And I want to thank Gennady Grigorovitch Zubka and all the members of the government. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, to all members of the government, I said. And I want to point out that at 1:00, we meet in the hall. There's going to be a closing session, and I want to thank you for the whole period, but we're not saying good-bye, because at 1:00 we're meeting here in the hall. "The year of questions before the government" is over. Thank you for meeting me at 1:00. Thank you. Welcome to our government. [[Applause]] And, colleagues, I'm announcing a move to review the draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of July 11, 19 on the adoption of the entire draft Electoral Code. I want to remind you that it is being considered as a reduced procedure. Hence, respected colleagues, according to the Rules, note that these decrees are in the form of a reduced procedure. Ukrainian national deputies Pisarenko Valerij Volodymyrovich and Svašas Dmitry Volodymyrovich introduced a draft decision to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 11 July 19 on the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Electoral Code (31121) and pursuant to article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, they applied to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the removal of violations at the time of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Since, according to the calendar plan for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call today, the last plenary meeting, at which all violations alleged by national deputies can be removed, I consider it necessary and, by law, to review immediately the draft Ordinance repealing the decision to adopt the Ukrainian Electoral Code. Furthermore, according to the requirements of article 130 of the Rules, consideration of such a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is mandatory, and the procedure for signing the adopted code is yet to be completed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. That is why we are obliged to consider it today. I made a report. And if there's any authors in the room, I can invite them. Then I'm asking you to do the recording. A saint, please. I invite you to the word of the Holy One. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to address the Head of the Supreme Council. Has this decision been considered by the profile committee, Mr. Parobia?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u109	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u110	Is this a decision considered by a profile committee? A regular committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u111	Please, this is not an hour of questions to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u112	Okay. There is nothing we can do about this Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fortunately, he did not have much time left. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] He's done a lot. I am convinced, and you have all witnessed that this bill has been passed with numerous violations of the current Rules. It is a disgrace to the Supreme Council when a code is adopted 18 times to live in society and to choose national MPs. That's the first one. It's different. The second violation of the Rules was that the act was actually passed by an ad hoc committee without consideration. This is a second violation of the Rules. Therefore, I am convinced that this ruling cannot be voted on right now. We need to hold a profile committee. And to vote on it as the next parliamentary term. Dear voters, there are 54 national MPs in the room, this is a violation of the will of the Ukrainian people on such an important issue as the Electoral Codex. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u113	I am very sorry when we are trained to respect the Rules by those national MPs who voted in favour of the laws of January 16 here in the Hall with their hands that led to the killing of our boys. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I would like to stress to those shadows of the past, the unclean ones who are trying to defeat today one of the greatest reforms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We went back to voting, and the Code itself was voted by one vote. We went back to the right, we went back. And according to the Rules, we have the right to do so. Now, I'm asking you to do the recording: two in, two in, two in. Please. The tribune's blocked. We had to get to the end of the box. Please. Jemmet Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u114	Mr. Head, honourable Ukrainians, in fact, the Law on Open Election Lists, the Electoral Code is not the law for candidates to be elected or deputies. It's a law for the Ukrainian people because. And it's absolutely obvious. Deputies, candidates who buy votes, are not interested in Ukrainians being satisfied, satisfied, confident in the future. They need poor and unhappy people who do not know what to expect tomorrow and who are ready to take five hundred or a thousand bracelets today. And when such deputies are already working in the Ukrainian Parliament, they are interested in adopting laws that will keep the Ukrainian people on the verge of poverty. For decades, this situation has been repeated for decades. Breaking up this closed circle is the only way to do it: to make it possible, in principle, to form a parliament through corruption. And these are open election lists. The majority is completely eliminated by its Greek and bribery. The ability of party managers to form lists for money is being completely eliminated. You, the Ukrainian people, will decide who will become a deputy on the day of the vote. In the newsletter, you're going to pick up a candidate on the list, making someone you trust a deputy. And those who want to break the law dream of leaving corruption mechanisms to rob the Ukrainian people over and over again to keep the Ukrainians poor. The only way to break this is through the electoral code, open electoral lists. Yesterday the Ukrainian Parliament passed this law on Ukraine's future, and those who want to stop it today are those who want to bring us back to corruption, those who want to leave us in the mud of this corrupt past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u115	Thank you. From the Radical Party of Lazko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u116	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, Parliament made a historic decision to change the electoral system. This new electoral system, the new Open List Electoral Code, will really overcome political corruption, so that other people come to Parliament, with a different outlook, with another philosophy, such as my team: from people, from people, from people, and for whom the main one is the protection of Ukraine's national interests. And they don't come to Parliament, they spend millions to get a place on the list or a major, then they rob people. But yesterday we heard very dangerous statements from representatives of Zelensky, particularly Stefanchuk, his representative in the Supreme Council, that the new Electoral Code had been adopted with substantial procedures and could be dedicated. This means that Zelensky is again deceiving the Ukrainians. When he spoke before the elections about the Law on impeachment that we had adopted, he still did not sign it or return it. He promised the new Electoral Codex, and now they're telling them he's in the way, and they want to make a commitment. He promised to lower the tariffs, and it turned out to be a joke. Zelensky lied to the Ukrainians before the elections. I am writing to the Head of the Supreme Council, Andriy Volodymyrovich, Paris, to sign in accordance with article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine the Law on Temporary Investigations of the Supreme Council Commissions and to publish it in the Voice of Ukraine. I'm talking to the Ukrainians. On the 21st of July, we all have a chance to stop this newly discovered king with a Napoleonic set of minorities, when he crawls into a sewer, anywhere else, instead of performing his duties as president of Ukraine. That's why we're in opposition to Zelensky. Because the person who has voted Ukrainians in the presidential office is doing everything today to destroy the country in order to bring it back from the path of European development and return to Malorasia. Easy and my team -- we won't let Zelensky be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u117	Thank you. From Peter Dustenka's Block, disputed by Ivan Dmitrovich. Passes the Victorian Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u118	Victoria Bird, non-freakable. Dear colleagues, yesterday I think it was a historic and very important event: we adopted the Electoral Codex. The electoral code, which will enable the national MPs to conduct sincere, effective, those who will work in parliament, those who will engage in legislative activities. Because the Electoral Code provides for the election of national deputies for open lists. Right after work in the Supreme Council on the evenings, I meet with voters in various homes in the capital of Kiev, in the Shevchenk district. And what I'm seeing, unfortunately, is that individual voters are expecting national deputies to receive material aid. Because they are so used to it, because individual national MPs have trained them to bring something to vote for you during the pre-election campaign. This disgraceful system needs to be eliminated. We need to move to an open electoral system, to open electoral lists in order for each voter to have the opportunity to influence the list and those candidates who will go to parliament; in order for members of large oligarchic groups to finally not get to Parliament; in order for professional lawyers, professional economists, professional people who are actually going to do the legislative work. And that's why when I see these decisions and attempts today to block this historically important event, and when I see those who are now trying to teach about the non-compliance of the Rules, I'm talking about the national MPs who have defiantly voted by raising their hands in favor of the January 16 laws. I believe that such a violation of the Rules should not take place. I think that these national MPs should finally be punished, they should finally be held accountable, and there must be criminal responsibility for this, because one law is the only one for all. And I very much hope that the principle of irreversibility of punishment will take effect in Ukraine. So let us vote in favour of cancelling this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u119	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u120	and unlock the signing of the Electoral Code. And I very much hope that the President will also support this important historic initiative of the people's deputies, sign the Electoral Code, and he will act. The only thing I want to ask Parliament to do next is maybe change the date of entry into force of this Electoral Code so that the next election will take place under the new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u121	Thank you. I want to make it clear that yesterday I made it clear that the transcript clearly states, "from the next election to the next election or not later on" and then the date is given. So the stenogram clearly noted this. And when we voted, I stressed, taking into account the speech that was made from the rostrum by the manager of the working group. And that's why from the next parliamentary elections, it's going to go into effect. And I'm stressing once again, and that's actually the case in technical law, and it's going to be pointed out that the next election is going to follow the new Electoral Code. And those who make other comments just didn't get to the bottom of the story that Alexander Chernenko, the head of the task force, did. I explained yesterday, and in fact, the apparatus will prepare, taking into account the report of the Black woman from the rostrum. Now from Self-Help, Egor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u122	I think the speaker did a unique job yesterday. Everyone knows I've often criticized Andria Paris, but yesterday he showed himself to be a man who leads Parliament to a decision when the decision is blocked. I think we should thank him for yesterday's decision. The other one. Everyone understands that such a review of the law was the result of tremendous opposition. And in fact, making more than 4,000 amendments was a technology never to pass the law on to a vote. Similarly, the great problems involved working on the law at the Committee on Legal Policy. And in other words, thanks are due to the members of the working group who have helped us all to understand this technology and to go through every correction, to make a decision. I think they deserve the same thanks. And the third. I wanted to say that the co-authors, the real creators of this law, should also call many public activists, leaders of public organizations who didn't get tired of explaining that this is not about elections or about MPs -- it's about the possibility of people having better representatives in the Supreme Council. This system, which we have put in place, allows every electorate to choose both the political power that will represent it in Parliament and the particular person from this political power that will represent it in Parliament. This is a double political responsibility. So that's a good decision. We also urge the President of Ukraine to sign it as soon as possible, and of course we will vote against the idea of repealing the Electoral Law, the Electoral Code adopted yesterday by Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u123	Thank you. Yegor, you have made a tremendous effort to have the codex. But I want to mention, in addition to many public activists, one who has done the most. This is Yuri Klukkowski, a man who has worked for many years to ensure that the Electoral Codex as one great system can be maintained. And I hope he can hear us. And I thank him on behalf of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine. From the Opposition Block, Igor Shurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u124	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The greatest tragedy of modern life is the hybridity of our politics. Do you know what it's all about? It is that we have no political responsibility. Why do we have no political responsibility? Because we don't have ideological parties, and we have political projects. And an example of this is, look, there was a European coalition. Which one of them is going to the polls today under the Peter Prashenko Block? Why? Come on. If you're saying that there are such achievements, say, "I'm the representative of BPP," or "I'm the People's Front," and I'm going to make your life better." Everyone's buried and no one wants to. What good is the Electoral Codex? He places a dot on the fact that there will be a major system. There will be no more so-called, no offense to me, to the political swamp. What do you mean, "refractional"? There must be a coalition, or opposition. And then there'll be the rules of the game. This is the first one. The other one. The electoral code makes it possible to create ideological parties in the future. And this is our future. What's more, I'll tell you when you ask people, "Who did you vote for?" - "What's up with me there, with my voice?".. And now, finally, people come to realize that they are responsible for their choices. I was looking closely at Mr. Stefanchuk, who was sitting here. There's gonna be a lot of problems, guys. We need to tell the truth. The electoral code was in violation of the Rules. Because there is no committee decision. What is a working group? He photographed how many voting results there were, and looked into the hall that was in the hall, that's one thing. None of us read the text. The main thing is that the Electoral Code does not wait for the fate of health laws that have been adopted here. No adopted law, no transplants, no reform works. The law is good when it finds its implementation. There's a big one waiting for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u125	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u126	We'll still have a big process of making changes and additions, because it's not as perfect as you think it is. If you look at the results of the city council elections that took place in the past, there was not always a district winner in the election as a city council member. It's an interesting job ahead. And thanks to the Opposition Block, you adopted this code in the first reading and in general. Because without our voices.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u127	First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u128	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, yesterday, when the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the Electoral Code, in fact, 230 deputies who pressed the "yes" button, they allowed the face to be saved by all the political factions and parties represented in today's parliament. Because I want to remind you that in the promises of the election and programs of all the political forces that entered the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the 14th year, there was a clear promise -- an election code with open lists. And especially, I want to thank those majors who showed yesterday that they were essentially statesmen by supporting the transition from the majority system to the ideological parties. Obviously, this codex has an extremely important novelty. We have introduced a so-called gender quota that will actually balance the representation of men and women in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local authorities. Similarly, we have established regional deputies so that politicians will not be torn away from their constituents. We now allow voters to actually determine who should be higher in this party letter. And now these lists are going to be formed by the voters themselves, essentially, not by party bonuses. And all of these are extremely important things that will make the parties form, not as one-time political projects for elections, but as ideological parties. A special thank you to the frontmen of this action is the adoption of the code -- the Speaker of the Supreme Council, Andrey Parbia, the head of Alexander Chernenko's task force. And I'm proud that they represent "European Solidarity", and all those who follow the list of this political force have pressed the "for" button of the Electoral Code to prove that it's very important to us. And I'm only sorry that you and I, colleagues, would have been able to remove the parliamentary immunity if it weren't for the illegal essentially dissolution of the Supreme Council on the eighth call.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u129	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u130	For. Because the first vote was "yes." And it's obvious that we've already done fifty percent of the work of "ministers of the people" when we voted for the President's impeachment in the Law on Tsk and the Electoral Code. And there's one thing left for the President to sign these laws so that the servants who come in here will have less to do. And we did it professionally and professionally. For which I thank you all very much, and for all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u131	Thank you. Colleagues, we are about to proceed to the vote. One more minute, Krivenko, who helped the deputies to call to the hall. And let's go to the vote. One minute to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u132	Thank you, Mr. Head. I want to thank all those who met, 4,000 people attended a rally under the Supreme Council on September 6th, including thousands of motorists. Thank you all. Thank you to all the public activists who were involved, and we put the seals on the committee exits and filmed on video the MPs who said they were voting. But half the people who said they weren't in the hall yesterday. And I urge our voters to make an assessment: who, yesterday and today, is not at work, but in the districts, not to vote for them. For some reason, neither the doctor nor the teacher can go to work without getting fired. And on such a fundamentally important day, on Thursday, when we had to vote on excessive laws, you saw what was happening and how difficult it was to vote. And it was voted under the Rules. Everything was voted right. We have a right to go back. And I feel a great deal of satisfaction and pride for those people who have adopted the changes to the electoral legislation that were at work yesterday, and for those who have joined in the positive things that this Parliament has done. Thank you all! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u133	Heroic glory! And let's move on to making a decision. I am voting on a draft decision repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 11 July 19 on the adoption of the entire draft Ukrainian Electoral Code (3112-1P). Whoever supports this decision, please vote in favour, who does not support it, against it. Vote. [[11:55:22]] For two. Two-in-a-row. 38 – against it. Nine's been held. Station's been breached. This allows you to sign the Electoral Code and sign it. Colleagues, they were questions, they were talking about the signature and the TSC Act. We actually found ourselves in a very strange situation when the person who went to the election promised open lists and passed his first law on closed lists. When the newly elected president promised to introduce the Law on impeachment, he did not sign the Law on TSK, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I've worked very closely with the lawyers in this situation, if the Chief of the Supreme Council can sign. Unfortunately, at this stage, the Head cannot sign, according to the Constitution, the Head signs when the veto is overtaken, and when the President has not signed, the Head of the Supreme Council can sign. The President's signature is now under the TSC Act. I emphasize that he has no right to make proposals and promise them; he can only sign them. And this is our joint task to get him to sign. It's the Plastic Support Act. I've been stressing all the time that the strike on Plastic has been sly and sneaky, and the Plastics Act has to be signed. The law on open electoral lists must be signed, and we must all force it to do so. Because unfortunately, we hear from him new and new unexpected ideas, particularly yesterday's idea of illustration, I'm deeply convinced, it's not his idea, it's Putin's idea. And by no chance did they have a conversation with Putin yesterday to illustrate all the participants in the Dignity Revolution, volunteers, volunteers, Ukrainian soldiers, participants in the Ukrainian-Russian war. This is the dream of Putin, which is unfortunately being retranslated here in Ukraine. I want to assure all those who would like Ukrainian defenders who defend the Ukrainian state, to illustrate, this will not work, and it will never succeed. In history, those who raise arms against Ukraine will go back to history who want to discredit Ukrainian soldiers and Ukrainian builders over those five years, and Ukraine will and will be a Ukrainian victory. And I'm convinced that 21 numbers and Ukrainians will give an assessment and a statement, and those actions that are being retransmitted in Ukraine today, and unfortunately, they are coming out of the mouth of the new president. I welcome everyone for opening the way for us to sign the Electoral Code, colleague. I want to remind you that now we have questions, then an hour of speeches, and at the first, maybe at the first ten, we'll close our session and session. I give the floor to Irina Heratchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, a statement came to the Presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from National Deputy Michael Papiev that on July 11th, during the vote of the Act amending the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for crimes committed against minors (6449), his card did not work, and he asks that his vote be taken into account "for". And now it is traditional for us, according to the Ukrainian Rules, to announce our parliamentary requests. There have been, colleagues, 128 parliamentary inquiries. So from Igor Shurma to the head of the office of the President of Ukraine for an introduction to the Presidential Order of Ukraine for admission to Ukrainian citizenship, Ms. Suprun Uljana Nada. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Police of Ukraine, Heprocurator for bringing officials of the Ministry of Health to justice for failing to comply with the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Medical Care, which led to the death of journalist Svoslav Sekunov. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Authorized President of Ukraine for Child Rights, the Ministry of Justice on the need for measures to protect the rights of a minor child. Taras Kremeny and Igor Brichenko are headed by the Ukrainian Railway Association, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the delay in payment of salaries to employees by the private shareholding company of the Furious Specialization concrete plant. Helen Sotnik to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine for information on supporting ideas on the issue of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts, Secretary of the RNBO. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General, on the objectivity of conducting a pretrial criminal investigation No.220191400000013 on the commission of a criminal offence by Taras Skoda. Oleg Kulinić until he was temporarily acting as Minister of Health, Minister of Finance for Underfunding of the Municipal Non-commercial Enterprise "Mirgorodska Central District Hospital". Sergey Eutuska to the Head of the Supreme Council for the issuance of copies of documents. Andrea Shipka to the minister of internal affairs for the control of the conduct of a pretrial investigation into the death of a family from the city of Nicopola. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister for the restoration of the Baranovka Public bus route. Constantine Jarinich to the temporary responsibility of the minister of health, the minister of finance to take urgent measures aimed at ensuring that citizens who suffer from rare (orphan) diseases, including those who suffer from mucouscides, are treated with medical supplies and medical equipment. Yurya Pavlenko to the temporary head of the Suma District Authority, the head of the Sadi Rural Council of the Suma District, the interim head of the Kosovo Rural Council of the Suma District, the first deputy head of the Suma District Government to use the State Budget subsidy in 2018 local housing budgets for family-type children's homes and to ensure the operation of family-type children's homes in the Suma district. Vadim Krivohatka to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organised Crime of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, for the improper response to the facts of diversified activity. Anna Romanova to the Prime Minister on the activities of state enterprises, institutions and organizations in the field of tourism. Anna Romanov to the minister of foreign affairs for the training of visas. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister on the loss of 50 hectares of Ukrainian territory for the benefit of the Republic of Belarus, formerly owned by the Vetlovsky and Girkov Rural Councils of the Lubeshiv region of Volin Region. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the question of the catastrophic caressing of Lake Light. Roman Macola to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Director of the State Institute of O.S. Otolaringology Columbian National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Medical Sciences, temporarily acting as head of the Hmélník district government for a review of the hearing aid application of the hearing aids of the child. Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister for the provision of hearing aids to the child. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the need to strengthen the monitoring of sanitary standards in children's camps. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister on the need for approval of the Concept of the State Environmental Program for the removal from the operation of the Chernobyl AES and the conversion of the "Hidden" object into an environmentally sound system for 2021 to 2031 years. Sergey Ljowczyn to the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, head of the Kyiv District State Administration on the unsatisfying state of the infirmary in Trilisa. Dmitry Sphenov to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the inability to join the electricity network of residential consumers of the villages of Mariyovka and Makorta of the Sofia district of Dnipropetrov. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister for salary increases for younger health workers and technical staff in budgetary institutions. Vitalia Gudzenka to the minister of infrastructure to raise wages for co-workers. Sergey Vlasenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for spending from Ukraine's State Budget on the military parade until Ukraine's Independence Day. Aunts Ostrikov and Olga Belkovy are under the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service for the sums of the retention tax on the income of natural persons from the salary of citizens under 26 years of age. Igor Kotwiecki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the innovative activities of scientific and educational institutions. Victor Romanyuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for systematic implementation. the continuation of the practice of mass bribery of the Obukhiv and Vasilkovsky constituencies of the Kyiv region. Helen Sotnik to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for information on the state of criminal investigations. Paul Rizanenka to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to stop the illegal destruction of land near the village of Rudnicka Barishiv district of Kiev. Jury Bublika to Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources in Social Affairs. on the social tension caused by the ecological danger posed by the work of gas-intensive wells near the residential structure of the village of Colomatke Poltava district of Poltava. Jurya Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice for the Elimination of Violations in the Registration of Citizens' Residence, the Limitation of Their Right to Social Payments and State Guarantees due to her absence, the existence of abuse and corruption in the work of the centres for administrative services. Sergey Melnika to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine asked Hmělnice City Council deputies about the need to develop a position on the certification of educational workers in cultural institutions. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Minister of Health for the use of urgent measures to monitor compliance with proper health standards in child rest camps and to restore the rights of Ukrainian children to safe living conditions, to protect their lives and health. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Minister of Internal Affairs, on the mark of Ukraine's defenders. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for a pedestrian crossing near the secondary school number 190 and the Children’s and Young People’s Centre in the Righteous District of Kiev. Andrea Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for repairs and replacement of emergency elevators in the houses of the Lisov Housing Massive of the right-wing district of Kyiv. Eduard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Ministry of Health, the State Department for Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Ecology, the Kyiv City State Administration, the Kyiv District State Administration, the Podgortsian Rural Council of the District of Kiev, on the consideration of the appeal of Vadim Philonenko to the inhabitants of the village of Podgorci, the Kyiv Region, to clarify and resolve all the situations that have arisen in the local community, to ensure ecological and sanitary standards, and to ensure the overall protection and protection of the constitutional rights of citizens. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, the Authorized President of Ukraine for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Ministry of Justice, the State Service of Ukraine for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Kharkiv District Government, the Kharkiv City Council for the consideration of the person's disability of the first group of children, Sergei Jaremenk, the resident of Harkov for the need to provide a comprehensive social, medical and material assistance to the family of the applicant in the situation that arose. Groups of Nardeps (Peterovka, Lunchenko, Gorvati) to the minister of infrastructure for the allocation of funding for the repair of the N-09 Mukachevo-Rahov-Bogorodčany-Johno-Frankivsk-Rogatin-Bibrka-Lviv highway within the Zakarpatsky region. Valery Pisarenko to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for Food Safety and Consumer Protection in order to facilitate the movement of domestic animals into European Union countries. Valeria Pisarenko to the minister of foreign affairs in order to facilitate the movement of domestic animals into countries that are members of the European Union. Ruslan Demczak to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastr in the Vinnitsk Region regarding the agreement of the project to the land arrangement on the change of the boundaries of the villages of Britzke and Konyushovka. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Social Policy for Change to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of December 28, 16th, No. 1037 on the size of tariff discharges for budget officials. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Sporisha, Ionova) to the Prime Minister on the allocation of budgetary resources to finance the preparation of cost-effective documentation for the construction of a bridge across the Dniester River (Yampil, Ukraine) - Koseuc (Republic of Moldova) Group of National Deputies (Herachenko, Sporisha, Ionova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of financing for the repair of the road of state value T-02-02 Mogilov-Podilski-Yampil-Bershad-Uman. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister on the need to amend the Higher Education Standard by specializing in 221 "Stomatology" for the second (master) level of higher education approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine since June 24, 19th, No. 879. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the provision of information on the enforcement of legislation during the parliamentary election campaign in constituency No.64 with a centre in the city of Coresten. Irina Konstankevich to the Minister of Finance for the protection of the rights of residents of the village of Olik Kivertsi district of Volinsk to access banking services through the restoration of the work of the Banking Department of ATB "Privatbank". Irina Konstanovic to the head of the Manevicke District Council of Volin County for the protection of the rights of residents of the village of Novosilka Manevicke District of Volin Region and for information on the further fate of the building, where there was previously a general education school of the 1st degree. Alexander Brigintz to the head of the National Police, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the possibility of unlawful actions aimed at depriving the National Artist of Ukraine, the Laureate of the Shevchenk Prize, Anatolia Haydamaka of the right to use the creative craftsmanship at Andriy's Uzziz, 8 in Kiev, signs of a robbery of the workshop, the seizure of works and property of the artist. Mikli Kucher to the head of the General Directorate of the Dergeokadastre in the Vinnitsk Region on the illegal use of land in the Bondurov Rural Council of the farmer's farm Fortuna. Sergey Labazuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science for the expansion of the list of Hmelni district vocational and technical education institutions for the introduction of dual forms of education. Sergey Labazuk to the National Police of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, for the renewal of the investigation into the case of the late Paul King. Sergio Leshchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the unsatisfying condition of buildings on the street of Kirilovska city of Kyiv. Sergey Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the benefits of medical treatment. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Ecology, Deputy Head of the State Forest Resources Agency, temporarily acting as Head of the Ravenna District Government to expand the areas of the Dermansko-Ostroskie National Natural Park within the Dubenski and Ddolbunski districts of the Plain region. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister, temporarily acting as Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate, Head of the State Audit Service, Head of the State Regulatory Service, for carrying out a pre-planned review of the activities of the Dubenska Forest Company to comply with the current Ukrainian legislation during the conduct of the main use sections in 2019. Jury Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for funding from the State Budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the Chernobyl Air Force of the United Territorial Society of the region of Ivano-Frankiv district with the construction of a corps for 14 classrooms, boiler rooms, and administrative facilities. Yurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for funding from the National Budget of Ukraine to complete the construction of a sports swimming pool (in the form of the reconstruction of the Supernatural Children's Sports School), 3a Mitzevič Street, in the city of Navirna, Johno-Frankow district. Jury Lewchenka to the Director of the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine for Information on Archaeological Research at the Land: Polovacka Street, 4 in the Shevchenk district of Kyiv. Yurya Levchenka, head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Director of the Department of Land Resources of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv City Administration), Department of City Welfare, Executive Body of the Kyiv City Council (Kyiv City State Administration), on illegal land construction at Olena Teliga Street, 25 in Kiev City. Mr. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Science for the consideration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Observations and Proposals of the Ukrainian Educational and Scientific Association on the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the remuneration of teaching, science and science workers and educational and scientific institutions. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Police of Ukraine, the Business Office of the Ombudsman, the State Bureau of Investigation, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Fiscal Service, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the comprehensive verification of the interference by law enforcement agencies in the business activity. Natalia Weselova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of criminal conduct. Mikoli Kucher to the Prime Minister for the cessation of illegal acts by officials of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine in relation to the limited liability association "Mineral Trans Ukraine", the immediate execution of the decision of the courts that have gained legal power, the return of illegally written funds to society and the restoration of a limited liability to the mineral trans Ukraine limit on registration of tax overheads. Robert Gorvato to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Fiscal Service to complete the implementation of Law 2360 and to develop the production of wine and natural honey. Dear colleagues, I have completed this announcement of parliamentary inquiries. We've got two statements from the deputies about dissatisfaction. Please, Mr. Shurma will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u135	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, my speech is dedicated to your vigilance. It will be addressed to you so that when you go to the polling stations, you can look very closely at who you are voting for and who you are delegating to the legislative body. Why am I focusing on this? During the entire period of time, those five years that we have worked as members of the Supreme Council, in the area of monitoring the performance of actions, the national MPs have been making inquiries to the government, to which they often receive write-offs and specific cases cannot show. I have repeatedly asked the Ministry of Health to provide data on international purchases because tens of billions of dollars have been taken abroad and there are no drugs, and those that are coming are very often terminated and do not match quality indicators. I had a lot of questions about why in three years the Ministry of Health did not gather people from the regions and, in fact, a measure such as the College of the Ministry of Health did not take place for three years. It's when the checkers don't listen to people from the regions, they don't know what the problems are. What is more, now that the "smelling smell" has revealed a number of significant shortcomings, including financial ones, when questions begin to echo, and why, in five years, those in power have not developed the concept of the development of a national health system and why there is no strategy for implementing this concept, why the laws of the Supreme Council, namely, the autonomy of institutions, the financial guarantees of the so-called health reform, the transplantation, international procurement, why didn't those laws work? Why did the Supreme Council adopt laws, and the Ministry of Health fail to ensure their implementation? Why are there no responsible people today? And it is sad that those who today must shoulder responsibility, including political responsibility, have left, you know, as the last rats, the Ministry of Health, have streamed into Parliament. Stefanisin is released today, who has no vocational education, she's a philosopher, she's going to the election of the Supreme Council, I don't want to talk to the political party where. Today, Ilik’s deputy also left the Ministry of Health. Who works there? What did they leave the government office for? There's no one to work there. And unfortunately, this government is going to work for a very, very long time until it's new. I address you, be vigilant and watch who you vote for. Those people who didn't work have no right to go to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u136	Thank you. Please welcome Sergey Lechchenko. And, colleagues, we are addressing Mrs. Oksana Siroid, who is now joining our meeting today, which will be followed by a recording of the national MPs of Ukraine. We ask everyone who plans to take the floor today to return to the session room in order to sign up for the performance under the heading "Rizzle." And we're going to have about 30 minutes, because after that, we're going to start a session, closing a session. Please, three minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u137	Respectable Chinese, respected Ukrainian citizens, have traditionally received a write-off and outright disregard from our authorities. In the interests of Ukrainian citizens, I regularly turn to them. Please, please, here, here, fix it. The specific address that we are discussing today is the discards on Lake Horatio in Kiev, our capital, when a huge housing supply suffers from environmental problems. Exchanges from city authorities. We're used to it. And frankly, I can't see any other way out of this than in Kiev for the term. Because of the dissipation of power in the capital from the needs of the sheds, it appears to be staring into the eyes. At every meeting that happens anywhere, whether in the center or in the neighborhood or in the subway or just on the stop, there's all the complaints that the authorities have completely forgotten who she's working for. The government in Kiev has to work on the Chinese. And in this case, the heat situation is just one example. Another example. The situation is related to the provision of benefits and free medical supplies in the Podil district of Kiev. For the past two days, I have spent the last two days trying to reconcile two state officials — the head of the district’s Advisory Diagnostic Centre and the head of the City Council’s Health Department. Well, you both have to work in the interest of the Chinese. If there is a lack of funds for Ukrainian citizens in the Podil region who need drugs or drugs free of charge, find an understanding. Why are you hostageing this Ukrainian citizen of yours who are paying you their taxes, but you're still making more and more people who are trying to solve this situation? But instead of deciding it, you translate responsibility into one another. So that's the situation. We need 6 million 400 thousand dollars in the Podil region on a premium and free medicine. We've got 2.6. A huge hole has formed. A hole that means that Ukrainian citizens living in the Podil region will not receive the medical supplies they need. Don't make them hostage. If there is a violation on the part of the director of the medical facility, investigate, open the case. If there are no violations, make money, but do not make people hostage, for this is life after all. It's not just a queue, you know, a puzzle, is it some pear project to build a crystal bridge in Kiev that cracks on the second day and doesn't work because it's not even officially operational. It's about the lives of Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u138	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u139	Citizens who hold officials in these positions Think about people at last, not the pear puzzles or schemes that draw money out of the budget for pleasure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u140	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for those who intend to take part in the presentations. Please hold the recording. We have our performances about the first hour, because our closing hours will be at 1:00. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Kurenny. Please, National Deputy Sergei Leschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today is the last session of this Parliament. This Parliament was not ideal. And every day, when I meet with the Chinese, I listen and, frankly, admit faults that maybe even I haven't touched them, but Parliament has "cut off," Parliament has failed to do what it was doing. And even if he fought it, anyway, he didn't fight enough, so I have to take responsibility for it, too, because we came to change the country. At the same time, I am not ashamed of my five years of office in the Supreme Council, because every day I worked for the Chinese, for the Ukrainians, not for my own interests, but for Ukrainian citizens to have honest authority, and the budget was focused on the needs of all citizens, not on a few families that had usurped power in the country. And that's why right now, my last speech in Parliament, I want to dedicate my report on the work I've done. Thus, 13 laws were passed in coauthorship, 400 meetings and admissions of citizens, and over 3,000 appeals were processed. In particular, it's about fighting against the oil monopolies that are being used, and then getting that money out of citizens' pockets and investing in oil projects, investing in corruption, investing in continuing to be in power. In particular, I was rescued from the persecution of the S.E.U.S.S.S.I. independent small car gas traders. To avoid building a Medvedchuk monopoly on this market and so on, I'm struggling, especially with the bear bear diesel monopoly. I fought Rotterdam Plus and personally filed a lawsuit against the people who introduced this fraud scheme in Ukraine, the officials of the government of Dustenka. I was saved from spending 1 billion dollars that were to be absorbed by the construction companies that occupied the Ministry of Infrastructure, particularly the depths of the bottom at the port of the South. This money was saved from looting. It was me. Statements in behalf of Ukrainian entrepreneurs who were affected by the invasion of the Ukrainian Security Service. Personally, as a deputy, I rescued a medical facility called the Paramedics’ Hospital on Sagydachny Street in the Podilj district of Kiev. And I can honestly even boast that he got a thank-you letter from all the coworkers in this medical facility. He was saved from closure. As a national deputy, I was helped to perform repairs at the Gorlova Institute of Foreign Language moved to Bahmutovo. As a national deputy, I have been asked many questions by law enforcement authorities so that in cases where the authorities and where the prosecutor are not acting in the interests of citizens, they do not act. I did everything I could to bring 276 traitors from Crimea to justice. And in particular, I did everything I could to win the Naftogaz of Ukraine in Stockholm. The company head's signature, as proof of that, is at my disposal. Therefore, citizens of Ukraine, make your conclusions in the next election and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u142	My colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm not going to give you any extra time, let's make a deal: exactly three minutes to get those people who were written down to get there. Oleg Lazko also gave him the word of his colleague, six minutes’ notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u143	Dear Ukrainians, today I have the great honour and opportunity to address the Parliament of the Eighth Call, which is putting an end to its work. We're going to the parliamentary elections, our team of the Radical Party, in opposition to Zelensky and his politics. I'm addressing the Ukrainians and I'm stressing once again: today the only political force and party in opposition to Zelenski is Oleg Laska's Radical Party. I want you, your honors, to explain why we are in opposition to Zelensky. Because Zelensky wants to sell Ukrainian countries to foreigners. We think it's a crime against people, it's a crime against a Ukrainian village, it's killing a Ukrainian village -- selling land to foreigners. Greensky at all meetings with the International Monetary Fund, all his representatives say that one of the first laws they're going to adopt in the new Supreme Council is land sale. I'm going to Parliament to prevent the sale of land to foreigners. I'm talking to Ukrainian peasants, people who have always supported me and my team: July 21st, come to the polls and vote for the Radical Party. Your vote for the Radical Party is a vote for justice, it's your national vote here, in the parliament of the new calling. Look at the columns here: some liberals and lebertarians, for whom human rights, human social protection, the protection of working people are all empty sounds. Because they're grantors and they're guided from the outside, they're told across the border capitals what to do, and they're willing to do it here in Parliament. The Lalashka team is a Ukrainian team whose main priority is Ukraine, which is jobs for Ukrainians, which is the restoration of Ukrainian villages, Ukrainian industries, Ukrainian production and Ukrainian forces. And that's why our team in Parliament won't let them sell the land to foreigners. Both Zelenski and Poroshenko and Vakarczuk -- they all say they're willing to vote for the land market. The Radical Party is the only one in this new parliament, and it doesn't matter how many of us there are. Of course, the more, the better, but no matter what we are, the decision is made by the leadership, not by the number. We are ready to fight as we are today in opposition to Zelensky, so in Parliament we will not let them sell the land. Look at their other statement that they made two days ago: they want to cancel the moratorium that we kicked out here in Parliament two years ago -- a moratorium on the ban on the removal from Ukraine of unprocessed roundwood. After the summit, Ukraine - the EU was one of the key issues discussed in secret at this summit. Zelensky made a commitment to cancel the moratorium. I refer to the Ukrainians from Carpathian to the sumstina: the abolition of the moratorium on the removal from Ukraine of unprocessed roundwood is a barbaric logging of forests; it is the destruction of hundreds of new Ukrainian woodworking enterprises that have emerged in Ukraine in the last two years when our team achieved this moratorium. Tens of thousands of Ukrainians will be out of work, without livelihoods, and will feed their families — that is what Zelensky proposes by canceling this moratorium. In the new parliament, I will not let Green or any other sellers cancel the moratorium on logging out of Ukraine forest, unprocessed wood, without creating jobs abroad at the expense of our wood. My policy is to stop the raw materials. use Ukraine as a raw colony. Our priority is to restore the economy, jobs for Ukrainians, overcome poverty, increase the welfare of every Ukrainian family, review the conditions of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. That's what today's government doesn't do, that's what Poroshenko did, the same policy of addiction, the bargaining, the raw materials colony, the Greens, because they need credit. That's the only thing they're capable of doing is getting credit. And for the sake of credit, they're willing to sell the land, the forest to export, people to export, destroy the village, and destroy the city. My policy, the Radical Party policy is the opposite, so we're in opposition to Zelensky. And separately, not about economic policy, but about worldview, about Ukrainian things. In the new parliament, Zelensky will try to repeal the Language Act, hold a special status for Donbas, hold a referendum on Ukraine's NATO membership, although this membership is already enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine and Greens as President under the obligation to implement the Constitution rather than to review it. Dear Ukrainians, I promise you, in the new parliament you will see that Lysko is the only one who will fight against this. I won't let Zelensky take away the language, the land, the state, the legalization of terrorists and the conduct of any less valuable things. I will force Zelenski to be president of Ukraine, not governor of Malorósia. I won't let Zelensky take away the future from the Ukrainians. We will be in opposition to it, I claim to be the head of Parliament in the new calling to protect Ukraine, protect Ukraine and protect Ukraine's future. Support the Radical Party!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u144	You're welcome. No, no, Mrs. Natala. Mr. Miroshnichenko, the national deputy of Miroshnichenko, is invited to give the floor to Igor Šurm. And then you, and then you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u145	Dear voters, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the problem of many Ukrainians who cannot resolve disputes in the courts. I'd like to draw your attention to the absence of judges in the courts. I would like to pay attention to the length of the final decision, since at every stage, except that it takes a lot of time to deal with the matter itself, but there is still an appeal, a case. I would like to draw your attention to the inability to solve the problem, including after people have been given court decisions, when decisions are made, we know that our country is extremely low. How could it be and would it be necessary to solve this problem in the light of the experience of civilized countries around the world? This problem is solved at the expense of the media. Meditation, the essence of which is either a trial or a non-judicial solution to disputes, when two parties having a conflict use a professional mediator to prepare a peace agreement. After that, there is no need for executives, whether governmental or nonstate, to help make that decision. Then there is no further dissatisfaction with one of the parties who lost the court. That is why I have registered Bill 10425, which is based on 124 articles of the Constitution, which deals with the fact that the law can establish a mandatory, judicial order for the settlement of disputes by means of mediation. The bill allows for the creation of conditions where citizens can settle any conflicts and disputes with much less losses and material ones, including without further conflict. That's why, on July 18, the following week, the National Conference will be held on the basis of the Professional Committee of Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: "The Legislative Mediation in Ukraine." I invite all the people's deputies, I invite all the professionals who work in the field of mediation, I invite all the activists who are concerned with dispute resolution problems to participate in this conference so that we can get to the next call by adopting this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u146	Thank you. We said that. Friends, and the law is important, the law is very important, it's true. Please, Mrs. Katzer-Buchkowska is coming to the floor right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u147	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want to talk about energy security today, because it's actually an extremely important part of the nation's national security, and what we've done in four years. For the first time in the history of Ukraine in 2014 at the level of parliament, we started discussions on energy security and developed an energy security concept. In fact, today we've registered a bill on energy security, and there's been a lot of international work done, negotiations with the Foreign Affairs Committee, along with colleagues from other factions. And we have very good results today. First of all, we passed the Natural Gas Market Act, the Electricity Market, the Regulator Act. And these laws enabled us to win lawsuits in Stockholm arbitration, to make Ukraine energy independent, not to buy more gas from one supplier, but to be able to buy it freely on the market and pay the political price. We also managed to stop the North Stream for two years with parliamentary diplomacy, and today this fight is still going on. And today we expect the sanctions that were passed, the sanctioning law that was passed by the Parliament of the United States. Today, Denmark is on our side, which still does not allow the North Stream to be built. So we have a good result, and this is actually more than four billion dollars for the Ukrainian budget. We also contributed a very large part not only to the legislative work, but to the practical implementation of our work, so we invested actively in the production of gas. And today we have Canadian, American, British investors, strong Ukrainian companies that are going to extract 9 large areas of gas, Ukrainian ancestry. And that's more than a half billion dollars in the next year and a half billion dollars in the next year and more than five and a half billion dollars in the time of the deal. So I think these contracts should be signed as soon as possible, and these companies have started to extract gas, which will allow Ukraine not to buy gas for five to seven years. What else needs to be done? First of all, we need to make sure that Ukraine increases its energy efficiency. And we have to make an effort to make Ukraine an Eastern European gas hub so that we can also install LNG, and it's not just gas, and it's not just price issues, but today the price is falling, but it's also a question of diversification of gas supply, and it's a question of our security. We have to create a gas exchange. We also have to focus on leaving a global investor, a strong gas company in the Black Sea. This will enable Ukraine to become fully energy-efficient and independent and make Ukrainian gas cheaper. Therefore, I believe that the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u148	Thank you. There are so many who would like to speak. Thank you, dear colleague. Please, Mrs. Birdie, let's have a word with you. Please. I'm sorry, it's Yegor Sobolev. Mrs. Bird. And then Sobolev. Please. Please, Mrs. Bird. Victoria, please. Victoria, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u149	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Today, the last session of Parliament of this convening, and I believe that it is the responsibility of each national MP to report for his activities in the Supreme Council. That is why not so many national deputies are present today, but there are those who consider it their duty to be in the plenary and to report to you. What I want now, what I want to focus on. For my cadence, I tried to adopt those laws and proposals that were designed to protect businesses that were designed to develop fair, transparent competition that helped bring about the reform of decentralization, and we, together with many experts, were actually promoting and adopting these bills into Parliament. Bills to strengthen the role of international experts in the selection of judges to an anti-corruption court. Bills aimed at protecting the rights of citizens. Bills that should change parliament and reform, but unfortunately, at least parliamentary reform has not been carried out. At the same time, for four years I worked as a non-fractional national MP, and now I want to thank all those national deputies from various factions who supported my legislative initiatives and who voted in favour of these legislative initiatives, even though I did not have a team behind my back. I thank those who voted and for Parliament's decision to make the Antimonopoly Committee transparent and to publish all their decisions. I thank those who supported the reform of corporate law, changes to the legislation on equity societies, decentralization bills, bills that would actually be able to implement this protection of citizens. At the same time, I would like to point out now that in the next chamber, if I'm going to be a national deputy, I want to deal with the issues of the LHC, and I think we need to make some changes. Because right now I'm meeting the voters of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, and I see the disgraceful condition of the houses, and obviously there's a need to pay attention to it. I want to make it impossible for the Kyiv council to distribute the budget manually, which is currently happening. I am very concerned about the number of pro-Ukrainian national MPs in the next assembly, and whether it will be enough to oppose Russian aggression and the pro-Russian national MPs, who unfortunately are also going to the next assembly. But I want the principle that the law is the only one for all to work, so I'm going to address you and ask you to choose consciously. I ask you to examine everyone's candidature so that the next summons will come to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u150	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. And we wish you success and victory. And please welcome Yegor Sobolev. Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u151	I want to begin by saying thanks to the people who have helped us so much. Of course, there's a lot to talk about our international partners, a lot to talk about colleagues who took positions here, but I've always been proud and considered the key position of citizens. A small number of active, principled citizens have actually helped make the most important decisions in this Parliament. And I want to say the warmest words today to all my colleagues, to my friends at the Anti-Corruption Centre, to the Institute of Legislative Ideas, to the Center of UA, to Transparency International, to the Civil clarification committee, to many organizations, to initiatives, and simply to people who, from entrepreneurs to volunteers of this war for their independence, were people who spent their time managing their state. For me, this is the main lesson of this Council. All decisions, all that Ukrainian society needs, are easy to get, only it has to understand. It needs to understand its power. And it has to understand that Parliament, the President, the government is all the result of actions or the inaction of citizens. If you want a life of protection, if you want justice, if you want to worry, who doesn't want it? – it is very important that you delegate your powers to the principled and active people. Either you went to politics yourself if you don't see or see enough of these people. I think that this is the main curse of this Parliament, that the principled and active people are very few. And even the good laws that have been approved are often largely by the same people's deputies, the President, the ministers have not been enforced. And I think it's a problem that's hit very hard on many of the Council's achievements. Don't be "idiots," as Aristotle called people who avoid politics. Seek among yourselves men of principle, and build with them political powers. Let us make our nation stronger, fairer, more secure. I'll see you on these matters!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u152	Thank you. And the word is Rephat Chubarov. Dear colleague, please. Colleagues, I remind you, at 1:00, we will close the session of the last Supreme Council of the eighth call, and we ask that all deputies arrive at the first hour of the session room. Please, Mr. Refate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! In my speech, I would like to thank not only my colleagues but, above all, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the Ukrainian community, millions of Ukrainians, both inside the country and those living in other countries, but also to feel that they are Ukrainians and care for Ukraine, for the powerful support of Crimea, temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation, the Crimean Tatar people, and for our united work for Ukraine, including Crimea. I hope that the new composition of the Ukrainian Parliament will be more effective with regard to the depopulation of the Crimea, with regard to the approval of changes and additions to the Constitution of Ukraine in part of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I regret that, despite the fact that all the preparatory work has been done to this end, it was not enough in the previous leadership of the political will to reach the end and give the Crimea the status of national territorial autonomy, deriving from the right of the Crimean Tatar people to self-determination in the form of the Ukrainian State. I would like to end with the words of high respect and support for the Crimean Tatar people who oppose non-violent methods, forms, resistance to Russian occupation. I want to thank especially those who came out two days ago with a rally of protests against the repression and persecution of the Crimean Tatar people, who came out with a rally to the Red Square of the Bandit-Terrorist Russian State. I just want to remind everyone, using this opportunity, in 1987, when the Crimean Tatars, under the conditions of the Soviet Union and such mass protests, then several thousand people gathered from all places of exile to Moscow, and after those protests, the Soviet Union fell apart after less than four years. I'm sure the Russian Federation will break up with our common opposition. I'm really proud of all those who live in Crimea and who oppose the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u154	Thank you and thank you for fighting together for the return of Crimea. And please welcome Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u155	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Respectable association, distinguished viewers, and the finale of this call. I'm not ashamed of any of my actions, I'm proud of the many things we've done together. It's also the Ukrainian Radio Song Act, and it's also about preserving our identity in general, and everything we've been doing in the humanitarian direction, and the Plastic Act, and what 17 million dollars have been able to focus on plastic development and economic issues. So, starting with the Export Credit Agency, banning roundwood and everyone else, the other issues we've been dealing with, there's a lot to talk about. I believe that the national electorate should report to the electorate. I have prepared my report and will publish it. Over 190 bills have been presented where I am the author or co-author, 38 of them have become bills. More than 4.5 thousand queries and queries have been signed during this time, and each of these requests is followed by a specific problem either of a person or of a particular company that is being attacked by the forces. Bills passed that I'm the initiator and the author who allowed the Antonov factory to live when you and I removed the debt three years ago. 450 million dollars we set out to save my own South German family, where I worked as deputy director-general. We passed a bill, where I'm co-author, about 5 percent of what's left of the rent. And for example, only last year did the Gaddaic region get plus 93 million dollars, the Lochwitsky region -- plus 101 million dollars. We did a lot of law enforcement, starting with the murder of Irina Nostrovsky's sister, and then we killed Irina herself. I mean, my assistant, Andrew Rudenko, a lawyer, did these things, and now he's still in the business. We were able to plant the killer in two years, and we continue to do many other resonating things. This is also a question in Irpen, where 2,000 children did not go to school and to gardens. That's also a question in Vasilkov, where fundamental theft is. And a Russian citizen who is now in charge of Odessa, who has been hiding for two months last year on the application I initiated, and NABU has committed crimes. Hundreds of millions of dollars went to various cultural projects, to various economic projects, to the needs of communities. It's been a long time. From preserving the petrickian enrollment to supporting the National Institute of Memory A lot of things are done. But there is much that can be done. Now I'm going through 151 districts -- Gaddaecki, Lochwitsky, Chernoukhinsky, Piratiinski, Lubensky and Grebinkovsky. I'd be proud to represent our district if I was trusted. I urge you to look at the way of people who wander. Support motors all over Ukraine that are running around the districts now. And to look at those who weren't at work yesterday on this very important day, in no way to vote for them. And those who are not here today when the last day of work. It's nonsense to make.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u156	Thank you. Please welcome the national representative of Logwinsky. Colleagues, in a few minutes, please return to the session room, closing in a few minutes. We'll close our session. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u157	Dear friends, respected citizens of Ukraine, many of my colleagues told me what they had done, how cool they were. I, you know, want to start with another one. I want to thank all the Ukrainians for being really cool. Because now the flag of Ukraine is rising all over the world. Because all over the world, they know which Ukrainians really are. They're worthy, they've protected their own state. We're cool. And that's the phrase I'd like to start with. Dear friends, you know, unfortunately, sometimes we underestimate ourselves and it's bad. Because we were able to make a strong army, a strong army that protected our nation, protected our children. [[Applause]] What was an army before? It's someone who said: some flag, something was stolen. No, we've got fights. When I'm told at the State of Israel or in the United States that we're proud of your army, there's never been such an experience. No, we did it -- we protected the aggressor. We'll take control of Crimea. We are proud of the Crimean Tatars, who remain Ukrainians even under pressure, even on the peninsula of the strict regime. Yes, dear friends, we have much to be proud of. We have leaders who have even defended the economic growth of the state under pressure. Putin did all things to set this tree on fire, that it might fall, and say, "Oh, Ukraine, but you have fallen." No, we held it back. When Mr. Yatzenuk started working, there were $20,000 in the budget. But we're out, we're worthy. When you say we don't have leaders, we have leaders. We have leaders who led our nation forward. I am. Just now, Mr. Oleg Lazko has defined how much they did and how they fought. And we must continue to fight for our own safety. There are a lot of other people, I know I'm proud of all of you, but the main thing is that Ukrainians are proud of you. I am sure that now, by voting, they will show that they are, we are worthy and will be elected worthy representatives. I want to tell you, my friends, what is very important is that the Ukrainians continue to do everything to feel what this Parliament has done, what the Radical Party faction has done, the People's Front, the Petra Prashenko Block, Self-Help, even the opposition, but they're fighting for their own state. So I urge you, my friends, to choose those people who, in fact, by their actions, their fate, their strong team made this Ukraine, they have protected us all. And I can still say that yesterday we met with Mr. Oleg Lazko and Loz with the Prime Minister of Israel, and he said, "No one can win you, because the only, strongest weapon is patriotism. And you have it. We're gonna win! I'm proud, Ukrainians! Thank you all! Thank you for helping my helpers!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u158	Thank you. Please welcome national deputy Sverk. He conveys the word to John Sporish. Please, Mr. John, we invite you to your word. Colleagues, please return to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u159	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th District. That's what I'm happy about, because it's my speech that we're about to finish our eighth vocation. But, you know, maybe it's an honor for me and all of us. Why? Because somehow I succeeded so much that I attended a session, a hundred percent, I haven't missed a session yet, I haven't missed a vote. And I, you know, that's why maybe that's why it's an honor to speak out today, not the last one, but the extreme one in this Supreme Council. But I am very ashamed when you ask your friends, those who are sitting in the hall, those who are going to the elections, those who are not coming, those who are going to this hall, those who are going to be in the ninth call to work, those who are not. So it's very common, for example, when I went to Hanna Hopko and said, "Oh, please tell me, are you going out or not?" And she says, "No, I'm not wandering." And she's not coming. You know, like her, like the committee that heads the foreign affairs, I think, like her, is supposed to be in this room. [[Applause]] I don't speak for myself. Because, you know, like me, it might already be a story. But, at the same time, young people should be in this room, young people should be better off. You know, I've done it again and I'm not going to say it again: our Parliament has done so much. And once again, if the parliament that comes after us can vote for as many reforms as we've voted for, how many laws we've passed, that's, I think it's going to be a very big plus. But I don't think the Parliament that's coming is going to be that enlightened. Although it may not seem like much, discipline does make our discipline bad. But at the same time, with the discipline that we had, we managed to do a lot and a lot of things. So I wanted to thank all my colleagues with whom I worked for our committee, which led the committee of the family of youth politics and childhood, the families of youth politics, sports, and tourism, our committee headed by Arthur Palatny. I'm glad I worked on such a committee. But I wanted to wish our electorate: dear voters, again, as I have spoken many times from this rostrum, do not tread on the same rakes. Take your pick, make sure you don't say that we didn't choose the ones, we chose the wrong parliament that we wanted. Unfortunately, it will be. And I would very much like that not to happen. I would very much like us all to understand with you the work that we did with you in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u160	Thank you. Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of our Parliament, to thank John Sporish as the most responsible member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who has not missed any meetings. And even there were days when there was only a Presidium and John Spores in this Hall. But we still continued our work. And we wish you success, Mr. John, in the next election. Dear colleagues, in a few minutes, we will begin our solemn session, the closing of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. I invite you to the session room of all Ukrainian national deputies. We are glad to be joined by the government, ministers. My colleagues, please, we have literally minutes left. Please, Mr. Kishkar, give me your word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u161	Ivan Dmitrovitch, I'm sorry, I'm a few percent behind you, but I have the honour to thank the people, each of you for the reforms that have been adopted from decentralization, the adopted and initiated reform of education, which I have partially criticized and complemented and tried to make it better. A vast work space, beginning with the Ukrainian National Security Act, ending with questions of humanitarian exchange, and as the next step will be adopted, I am confident that a plan will be adopted for the decommissioning, demilitarization and Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and parts of Eastern Ukraine, Donbas, which will soon be returned to the sovereignty of the Ukrainian State. I think that the work of each of you will in time be marked by the positive changes that every Ukrainian citizen will experience. For us, the work continues, in which we would not work, in which we would not work, in which we would not lead the ministries. The position of a public person, the position of a statesman, is to protect national interests as interests that are precisely older than collective and precisely older than personal interests. As Paul Kishkar, who goes along, including in the next parliamentary election, I guarantee that this principle of the superiority of public interests, of the collective interests over personal ones, will be realized in the specific actions of Paul Kishkar, wherever he does not work. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u162	Thank you. Fellows, we have one more performance. I've got John Sporish following our letter, and he's not giving a word to anyone. Next, Alexei Lensky. It's transmitting. Please, Mr. Sverk, give me your word. Please. Please, Mr. Sverk. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Sporish is handing over now and then Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u163	You're arguing. I'm Ivan Dmitrovich, Ivan Dmitrovich is me. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u164	And, colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm sorry! And this, I think, is the last performance in the "Rizzle." I'm asking all national deputies to return to the session room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank you all for your quality work during this eighth chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It seems to me that whatever you say, and our Council has done a lot to make our Ukraine Ukrainian, is a quality and a country to be proud of. I would very much like our country to remain as each of us Ukrainians, each of us Ukrainians, and Ukrainians living abroad, can be proud. I think we've done a lot. I was a member of the Committee on Information Policy and Freedom of Speech. I think our committee has done a lot to make the Ukrainian language more in Ukrainian television. I believe that our Council can only be thanked for this. I would very much like these acquisitions to remain that way for the next Council. I want to wish all my comrades who are going to win. I want them to become members of the next Council and carry what we have done in this chamber, and in the ninth chamber of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I also want to wish my best to those colleagues who, like me, won't fly around and are not going to do politics anymore. But I think we're going to be Ukrainian citizens and we're going to do everything we can to make our country better every day. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the time for speeches by the national MPs has come to an end. And to close the session, Prime Minister of Ukraine Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and the Cabinet of Ministers arrived. Welcome, all of you! [[Applause]] And, dear fellows, I ask you all to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius, is invited to attend. Let us welcome our esteemed Head!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u168	Friends, it's actually the closing day of our work, and I'm happy to say that these years that we've been able to work together, apart from the importance of the laws that we've passed, we've also shown great efficiency. The Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly held 580 plenary meetings, adopted 2734 legislative acts, including 987 laws and codes in general. The Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly also held 35 parliamentary hearings. It's statistics that show the result, the number of laws. But you and I all remember the quality and strength of many of the laws that were passed here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as we have often had to do desperately, to bring everyone together in the hall to a successful vote, to a successful reform. And this was at a time when we had to reflect Russian aggression. This was at a time when we had to spend more in each budget for the Armed Forces, for the military, for the military. We protected the country from the aggressors and at the same time reformed all spheres of social life. I'll remind you of pension reform, I'll remind you of medical reform, I'll remind you of reform of local self-government, of my belief, one of the most successful reforms. And we're with the government, and I want to thank both Vladimir Borisovich Groisman and all the members of the government for preparing and implementing those reforms. And what was important? The great coordination between the Supreme Council committees and ministers in preparing each of those reforms was important. You recall our reform anti-corruption, Yegor, when many did not believe it was possible, but all anti-corruption bodies were created. It was our parliament that introduced, I'm sure, the most open electronic declaration system in the world. And the Ukrainian Parliament passed the Anti-Corruption Court Act, taking into account all the amendments made by the Venice Commission. And this is a decision that has actually demonstrated the full unity of both civil society and the Ukrainian Parliament and our foreign partners. We've reformed the police. We colleagues have made historic decisions in the humanitarian field. Remember our laws on decommunization. How great the momentum was when we were actually changing the humanitarian policy of Ukraine. Because decommunization was a mental depopulation of Ukraine, because Putin's war was important to the hearts and minds of people, and we were filling our space with Ukrainian spirit. As we put quotas on TV and on the radio, you remember how many people said there might be conflicts that society would not accept. And then how the community applauded when they heard the Ukrainian song on all televisions and on the radio. I also want to thank Viacheslav Kirilenkov for these laws, which pertained to the protection of the Ukrainian book and the development of our cultural sphere, as well as to all members of the government. [[Applause]] I'll remind you how we voted in favour of the Holy Patriarch, and we didn't know exactly if there would be voices. And many in this room looked forward to God’s help that this was a turning point that started the way to Tomos, which was actually voted in this room. Of course, our decision on the Ukrainian Language Act was an incredible triumph of this convening, as was yesterday's decision on the Electoral Code. We've done amazing things in the humanitarian sphere: we've finally recognized, after many decades, all those who fought for Ukrainian independence in the twentieth century, the participants in the national liberation struggle, and the participants in the fighting. And this is a great historical justice that we have been able to bring together in a session hall where we have had the privilege of working together with the son of the chief commander of UPA Roman Shuhevich - Yuri Shuhevich. [[Applause]] And I particularly want to celebrate international activity. Over the years, President Dustenk and I have been able to form a powerful anti-putinian coalition. Few believed that it was possible to hold sanctions against a Russian aggressor for five years. Thanks to great diplomacy and parliamentary, through the coordination of joint work and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and President Dustenk, we received this coalition. And I think it's a great victory that we've made changes to the Constitution and we've determined that the strategic direction for Ukraine is the direction towards NATO and the EU, which demonstrates the irreversibility of this direction. And I'm sure it's a historic decision that was made by this Parliament. Many of us are criticized, and there is no doubt that we are. And there must have been mistakes. We've had to work in incredible conditions, in desperate conditions we've had to work all these years. But I know for a fact that each of the national deputies understood this responsibility that lay before us. Each of the government officials knew and understood the responsibility of each of our decisions, of each of our actions, and each one was desperately reformed on his own front, whether in medicine or in the police or in the Ministry of Finance. And despite all the criticism that may go on about us in spite of these absurd ideas to clear the field of all those who have protected our country for five years, and that is what yesterday’s statement is, to clear the field of those who have protected the country for all these five years, I am convinced that history will give a high degree of appreciation to our joint action. We built the foundation of a large Ukrainian house, we developed a large Ukrainian European house, and we made it modern, and we made it European. And I would like to thank all the people in this room, regardless of factions and whether they belong to one or the other party or political groups, but, after all, separately, the Peter Prashenko Block. Thank you! The greatest political power without which there would be no decision in this Parliament. I sincerely thank you for your desperateness, for your actions, and for your constant persistence. I want to thank the People's Front. Brothers, the People's Front is a fighting faction that initiated a huge number of national decisions in Parliament, which, with its energy, made these decisions with its spirit. I want to thank the Radical Party. I want to thank you for the very firm direction that, despite all the controversy and contention when the issue of Ukraine was at stake, the Radical Party took a state position by rejecting all political opposition and ambition. I want to thank Self-Help. We've had our differences. Thank you. But you were a huge energy engine, especially in the area of innovation and anti-corruption. And actually, this engine often gave energy to the entire room to make decisions, and when decisions were important, we also forgot about any differences. And we stood shoulder to shoulder, as we stood on Maidan, shoulder to shoulder. I want to thank Fatherland. And today, actually, Alexus talked about how much we made innovative decisions. And I also want to thank you for the fact that when there were questions or changes to the Constitution, or when there were questions of state and nationalism, "Fatherland" was always at the position of Ukrainian statehood. And a group (they're not in the hall, they're not in the hall), a non-fractional special thanks to me. Thank you very much. You know, key, final votes of 40 national deputies, 40 more than a lot of factions. That was amazing! And for the Electoral Code, 40 votes, and the Language Act, almost 40 votes. In fact, non-fractional votes were cast in key ballots. I would like to thank you very much for this support. I want to thank you for the criticism of the Opposition Block, which has criticised us over the past five years, and we have taken this criticism, and we have listened and taken it very carefully. I want to thank my colleagues, Arsenija Yatsenyuk, who was Prime Minister and who, together with us, started these reforms that were unpopular. And we knew that they would be unpopular. But he did not seek glory, he went hard, working for Ukraine. I want to thank Vladimir Groissman. [[Applause]] I'm sure these years -- this was an incredible example of how parliament and government can work together. Look at our story. It was almost always conflict and opposition. We were able to make a system in which both parliament and government and the President worked as one team. Because we realized that 100 years ago, Ukraine lost, in fact, because the leaders of the state fought one another, forgetting the external aggressor. We were able to create conditions, despite all the disputes that might have taken us to our shoulders, we stood up for all these difficult and difficult years. And I am convinced that this gave us the basis and the opportunity to build our Ukrainian European house. I want to thank President Dustenkov for his energy, for his incredible professionalism over the years. [[Applause]] Many initiatives, and in particular, I talked about NATO, about the EU, were the initiatives of President Dustenk. His tremendous efforts in rebuilding the Ukrainian army, his enormous efforts in strengthening the Ukrainian army, and getting Tomos, getting the Ukrainian Orthodox Church -- these were our joint actions, where we stood shoulder to shoulder, but it was his great contribution of energy as Commander-in-Chief. And I will never forget that it was an honor for me to have him give the order to counterattack when the Ukrainian forces, which were strengthened and our decisions, went against the enemy, against the enemy, against the enemy, against the aggressor. I am convinced that all of these events have already become part of history. I am convinced that we will still have to put forth great effort, workmates, and friends, to protect the values we have acquired here. Elections in eight days. But I'm sure, regardless of which one of us is going to be in 10 days -- whether it's a national MP, or a public activist, or a journalist, or just a political actor -- we'll be desperate and firm in defending the values that have been accepted in this Parliament. We're going to protect them in Parliament, on the field, on the streets, because these values are Ukrainian values, they're our great and powerful gain. And I'm sure we'll be developing those directions and those reforms that started in this convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will bring Ukraine to both the EU and NATO, and all those who for five years have built the foundation for this path, and will continue to work for this purpose. Deputies are just one form of struggle. Many here have been involved in the construction of Ukraine without a deputy and outside a delegation. And I'm sure, friends, that we will continue to work together in other formats, in other ways, but we will work together shoulder to shoulder. And as I did yesterday, I would like to say a few thanks to my deputies. My very sincere thanks to Irina Heratchenko. In the most difficult hours in this Parliament, when it was the most difficult, her shoulders were next to her, her words well helped us find in the hall and understanding, and the right directions. Mrs. Irina, thank you so much for all the years of this work! Mrs. Oksana, I want to thank you for your very professional advice. I've always heard support and help from my left, and very professional advice. I thank you for your support all these years. I want to personally thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all the workers. Without them, there would be no laws that we made. And you know, we've done a lot of amazing things. 56 years, if I'm not mistaken, this dome hasn't been repaired. We were able to do it to make it. Yeah, and we found a way to do that. You look at the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, how it gained Ukrainian meaning. We enter the hall, and we see a portal with the main flag of the country and the Constitution, and the Act of Independence. Gruszewski begins our pantheon of the heads of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the ceilings, where the Communist paintings were there, were simply sealed. We filled the Ukrainian Parliament with Ukrainian spirit. And this is also our common achievement. And I thank you for that and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, thank you for this work over the past five years, the protection that has helped us, the journalists who have been with us all these years, and the criticism and the support. Because our war was also an information protection against the Russian aggressor. If we hadn’t stood by our shoulders for all these years and had not been united in the most crucial moments, we would not have held the country back for those five years. Thank you all! And I'm not saying goodbye. I want to tell everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, on behalf not only of the Presidency, but of the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine to thank our Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Parbia, who has been working very hard all this time, has found compromises in this difficult hall and has done a great deal to strengthen the independence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only legislative body. Thank you, Mr. Andrey!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u170	Thank you. And, colleagues, I'll see you later. See you later! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u171	Ask the Prime Minister for a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! I was asked without agitation, so I won't say anything about the Ukrainian Strategy. Dear fellow members of the national MPs, Mr. Head, the honourable presidency, the esteemed deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! It's Thanksgiving. I think there's something to say "thank you" to every national MP. I can honestly say that this job, the job in office both in Parliament and as Prime Minister, was not easy for me. I think you know that. I think we've managed to solve a number of important issues, adopt the right laws. But there are many things we have failed to do. And that's why we have a lot of criticism today and at the address of the whole authority. I think it's often fair, but at the same time, we were able to do what the state needed. I'm not going to repeat everything that's been done. That is what the Head of the Supreme Council, Andry Volodymyrovich, said. I just want to thank every one of you who's served this entire time to the state that's been doing this honestly, frankly, who put their political ambitions aside and made the right state decisions. I think such decisions deserve respect. So thanks to every national MP. Mr. Head, I want to thank you sincerely. I've always felt and felt your support. Our relationship has always been based on mutual respect, and I deeply appreciate it. And I want to wish all of us every day that we are even more confident in the future that Ukraine is happening as a modern, European state. I want everything we have done with you to bring good to every Ukrainian family. So thank you all very much! I wish us success! And glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-07-12-m0.u173	Thank you. According to our calendar plan for the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 July, plenary work was scheduled for completion at the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. I remind everyone that the following week, from July 15 to 19, national deputies work on committees, commissions, and factions. Dear National Deputies, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call, will conclude its work on July 19, 2019. And the last plenary session of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call is closed. [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
