ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u1	Colleagues, time taken for recess, are exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, get ready for registration. Colleagues, please come into the hall. Colleagues, please come into the hall. I'll be running the registration now. You're ready, aren't you? So, please prepare for registration, please register. [[16:05:22]] There are 345 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to remind you that we are considering the draft Order for further work on the bill to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the realization of the rights of Ukrainian citizens to land, the preservation of property on agricultural land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and the continued development of the village on the basis of farming (No. 6236). Now we're in the National MPs' section. And I give the floor to Oleg Lazko, and the two deputies have given him the word, and that's why he's got six minutes to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Head. To our audience, to the audience of Ukrainians who may not have heard the discussion in the morning, I'll repeat what we're talking about briefly. In 2018, our team initiated changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, to article 41, to indicate that agriculture is the foundation of the agricultural system of Ukraine. The paradoxical thing, Ukraine, which is always the root of a village where almost half the citizens live in the village, but in this Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine is no mention of a farmer or a village. Instead, there is article 13 of the Constitution, which indicates that the earth is the property of the Ukrainian people. Despite the direct requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine that the land belongs to Ukrainians, the authorities of Prashenko and the new authorities of Zelensky are trying to pass the law on the sale of land to foreigners in Parliament. They tell a lot of stories about how when the sale of land and the market is open, closed, covered, main, they say there will be work, wages, cows, life and all. But they forget to tell Ukrainian peasants and Ukrainian citizens the key thing: who will buy this land. In our corrupt law enforcement agencies, the selling court system, the lack of funds in farmers, in peasants, this land is either bought by latifundi, lobbyists who are represented here in Parliament, and block the adoption of changes to the Constitution, or by transnational corporations. That's why the International Monetary Fund in each memorandum, by lending, is the main condition of the sale of land. That's why they're lending. Why are they fighting for our land? Because remember how Hitler was taken out of Ukraine during the war? The labor force and the land, the black man. Because the Lord gave us this black man. Hitler went to war to take our land. Today, they act cunningly — they do not go out in the open but are bribed to take the land away for three coins. Some will acquire billions in their pockets, and Ukrainian peasants will be batrazzi on their land. Me and my team, we're against the implementation of these plans. In this Parliament, this call, precisely because of our position, the Radical Party and other fellow MPs, we did not let Dustenka stretch the land market, sell the land, even though they did everything they could, but our iron position did not allow us to take land into the country. President-elect Zelenski, his representatives openly declare in the new parliament where they want to get the majority, the first law they adopt, is the sale of land to foreigners. In order not to allow them to pass this law, to sell the land to foreigners and to take it to Ukrainian peasants, we propose to change the Constitution. To supplement article 41: Agrarian farming is the foundation of Ukraine’s agricultural system. We don't invent bicycles. Article 23 of the Polish Constitution states that Poland’s main agricultural system is agriculture. The Constitution of Argentina and many other countries are the same rules. Because exclusively farming, family and other forms of farming, is the basis for rural development. Because when latifunds, oligarchs, international corporations come to the village, there's nothing but raps and soy. There's no cow, there's no work, there's no kindergarten, there's no roads and there's no light, because they don't invest in social finance. They don't invest in jobs, and for them, it's a quick profit. Look, the whole country is sown with soybeans, raps and sunflowers, and no one's holding on to sifting or fertility, no one. You won't find a cow with fire in the daytime. I was recently in the Kremenchuck district in Poltavščina, and I met a young girl, 28 years old, who had five children. They hold five cows, and the state gives them neither food nor refrigeration equipment, nor even food for the cow. But billions go to the oligarchs for what is called donations to the needy, to their, totally profitable, business, instead of giving the money to many families in the village, to those who want to create jobs, to those who want to earn, live and feed the country. Instead of changing this policy of selling land and raw materials, they take away people's opportunity to live in a village. The only way to bring life back to the village, the people to the village, the cow to the village, the production to the village -- is for the land to feed and belong to the Ukrainians. The change of state policy so that none of those in power: not Zelensky, no one else -- did not think about how to sell land, but thought about how to provide peasants with processing, circulation, affordable loans to make the land belong to peasants. My changes to the Constitution solve this problem. The land will belong to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u3	30 seconds, please. It's all right, isn't it? Thank you. So Teteruk Andry is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, I'm sorry, it's Kuprienka. Cooper, then Teteruk. Cooper's handing it over to Halasyuk. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Then Teteruk, then Suhevich. And that's what we're going to get, three performances. Galasjuk, Teteruk, Suhevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u4	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. The fact that there are no prime ministers or ministers in the government bed at present when considering such a strategically important country of legislative initiative – changes to the Constitution of Ukraine – is very evident. This indicates that the issue of Ukrainian land and the future Ukrainian village and agrosector is not only of concern to the Prime Minister but, unfortunately, to most of the deputies in this room. Moreover, the Prime Minister and the government contribute to the conservation of Ukraine’s raw economy, a raw model. It's no coincidence that we haven't heard the government and Prime Minister's report from the rostrum today. Because what are they going to report? About the fact that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians have left Ukraine during their administration, they have become forced laborers, immigrants to feed their families instead of creating these hundreds of thousands of jobs in Ukraine? Or did they raise tariffs and prices rather than raise wages and pensions? That they acted under the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund instead of listening to Ukrainian citizens, Ukrainian producers - taxpayers? Or is it that exports of raw materials and industry are increasing in Ukraine? You see, in the last seven years, the export of grains from Ukraine has tripled. At the same time, who was better off living in a village or in a country? A few oligarchs. And that's what this government does. Ukraine exports 7 billion dollars of grain, and flour exports only 70 million dollars. And from our grain, then they make flour in Turkey, and then they make spaghetti in Italy, it's already five to seven times more expensive than that raw material that we sold abroad. It's an economic idiocy that this government and this government are obsessing over. And that's why the Radical Party team unanimously voted in favour of resigning this government and the Prime Minister. Or would the Prime Minister like to tell the truth from this rostrum about his position on the forest round? About what he signed, he was delegating arbitrators for the trial in the European Union against Ukraine, so that in a Jesuit way he could try to abolish the moratorium on the export of the roundwood forest, which is why so many Ukrainian patriots were fighting in this room. You and I have accepted this moratorium, and we will keep it with you. Or would he like to talk here about the policy of high prices and tariffs instead of high wages and pensions, the industrial development offered by our team? Hardly. That's why we didn't hear the government report today. Economic policy must be radically changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u5	Teteruk Andriy Anatolovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people! The earth’s question, of course, needs to be resolved. Because we see a number of problems related to the earth’s issues, particularly the violent corruption of those who actually own a vast array of land, sell it, enrich it through illegal schemes, and the state, instead, is only affected by such sales, because we have April corruption and there is no solution to the issue. My colleagues have repeatedly mentioned that this issue requires constitutional anchoring, a solution. But I am extremely concerned that President Zelensky of the first days of his position has been cynically violating the Constitution, which is actually depriving us of the hope that the consolidation of the issue through the Constitution will have a 100% guarantee. Unfortunately, we're not in the prime of the rule of law, so in the sense that we have to allow citizens to be masters on our land, because, again, my colleagues mentioned Hitler, but we also have to remember Hitler's partners, the Soviet government, which a couple of decades before Hitler started exporting the land, actually killed the Ukrainians who were the rulers of the land, stripped them of their ownership of the land, and since then the communist-major regime has been doing everything they can to make the Ukrainians own their own land. And that's why all those who are now saving to leave the state of things in the sense that it exists are primarily true descendants of the Communist regime, who are rich in having vast amounts of land. Judges get hundreds of thousands of acres as bribes. Those who have a huge amount of political, let's say dividends, are also latifundists. So we have a civilized way of allowing the Ukrainians to have ownership of the land, to cultivate the land and to be masters of their land, to inherit it, and to realize that it is land, the land issue, that must be a powerful generator of the prosperity of our nation, the prosperity of farming, the prosperity of all those who want to work, to live on their land, and to be real masters, not renters. Thank you all for your attention. And I urge you to think about it and to solve it in a way that we can do -- because of the change in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u7	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u8	So that this can be resolved as it is in developed countries. The earth’s market must be transparent, with clear rules. And we, as national deputies, would have to set these rules so that everyone would understand how to enter this market, how to behave, and how to be protected from the law and from all players. It's civilized, it's right, and it's fair, because Ukrainians have to dominate their land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u9	Thank you. And the closing statement is Yuri Suhevich. Colleagues, this is going to be a closing statement during the time. It's a closing act, it's been a while. And in three or four minutes, we'll move on to making a decision. That's why I'm addressing all the factions' heads to invite the national deputies to the hall. In three or four minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. There's insistence, next one, Didic is next. One minute, okay? 1 minute next, which is on the list, graphed. Three minutes, Mr. Yuri, and one minute, Didic. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u10	Respectable national MPs, though not all of them. Because, I see, many deputies don't care what happens to Ukrainian land, what happens to Ukrainian workers who work, blood and then water this land for ages. And I want to tell you something else, because we always appeal to the European Union. Two years ago, in Lviv, 40 years ago, the Helsinki Group was celebrated in the walls of the Ukrainian Catholic University. Not only did the Helsinki Group come from Ukraine, Russia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and so on. Georgia and Armenia And there one of the representatives of the Helsinki Group, the representative of Latvia, is a young guy who at the end of the Soviet Union at the beginning of the big demonstrations during the so-called "reconstruction," was the first to raise the national flag of Latvia. And he said to us, "You know, we have land in Latvia -- the land doesn't belong to us, it belongs to Swede, it belongs to the Germans, it's to the English. So beautifully sown, such lawns are green, and our Latvian people who worked on this land are now working in hires in Ireland." I talked to them, so they had bitterness, and they said, "Once we were abused, there was an enemy, and now there was a native state. And here we are." And he added, "We've already come that way. Don't go our way, please." You know, this is the experience of Latvia, which is in the European Union. And this is the experience of how they were depopulated. And that's why I want to come to you. You're complaining about the moratorium. Right, we have to complain because that's what we do in December -- and we forget for a year, and then we forget about it! - we'll take it again. We need to take a three-to-five-year moratorium and make a program for rebuilding the village. We need people who live in a village, work on this land, give them the right money, low-cost loans so they can own this land, not dump it on a free market, where foreigners will take this land, buy it -- and we'll find ourselves again "on our own land." Notice that, and let us all think about it so that it does not happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u11	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u12	Ukrainian peasants who worked and worked for it. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u13	Please, Didic, one minute as agreed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, dear Head, the Ukrainian people! Today is a sign day that we are considering such an important constitutional law that is passed by colleagues -- national deputies and supported by political forces in this parliamentary room that think for the future. When you look at the ropes, they're beautiful, they're powerful, and when you look at the houses where the Ukrainians live, they're looted, the Ukrainians are gone, they're fostering a better fate in the world. Only because of the small forms of conservation of the farm movement, through the farmer, we have been introduced, we can achieve, we can preserve the Ukrainian people, we can make them masters on our own land, and through this formula we can go to the better fate of our nation. So our MPs will uphold these fundamental rules, the founders. It's a constitutional norm that will give the Ukrainians life. That's why I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u15	So, colleagues, we've finished the discussion. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I ask, colleagues, to come into the hall from the government's beds, to return to the voting room and please take up jobs. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. And I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform you that we are moving on to a decision-making process. Look, the factions' heads are gone. Everyone please come into the hall. So, are your colleagues ready? I'm asking you to take up jobs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Didn't you hear I just called ten times? Did you not hear what I called for, or did you hear? So I'm going to ask you to take up jobs. And I ask the factions to prepare for the vote. Guys, look who's not around, call me back. Please come into the hall and look who's gone. Colleagues, me. Not everyone is at work. I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs, stay out of the hall. On the contrary, colleagues, come into the hall. Colleagues, heads of factions, look who's not around. So sit down, let's move on to making a decision. And I am voting on the draft Order for further work on the bill to amend article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the realization of Ukrainian citizens' rights to land, the preservation of property on agricultural land in the hands of Ukrainian citizens and the continued development of the village on the basis of farming (number 6236). Please vote and please support the ruling. Vote. We're backing it up. Please vote. [[16:29:45]] For-160. Colleagues, decree. Show the factions, please. Block of Peter Poshenko – 34, National Front – 33, Opposition Block – 26, Self-Help – 6, Radical Party – 18, Fatherland – 8, Will of the People – 4, Rebirth Party – 5, non-fractional - 26. Colleagues, and thus the ruling has been rejected and Parliament has not been determined as to the decision and further development. So, colleagues, we're on. The next law, I want to warn you, is the next draft of the Agricultural Cooperation Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] I haven't announced entry yet. Sign it, then I'll give it to you. Next is the draft Agricultural Cooperation Act (6527, 6527-1 and 6527-d). I ask all the reporters and co-reporters to prepare themselves for the consideration of this bill, my colleague. Before giving you the word, how to begin the discussion, I report that a statement has been made for a break from two factions: A radical party and Fatherland. I'll give you three minutes to do this, and then we'll go over to draft Law 6527 and two alternatives. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u16	This is a huge disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament that you are unable to support the law that introduces to the Constitution the right of farmers to rule over Ukrainian land. I want all Ukrainians to know who didn't vote for it. You're talking about European strategies, "Peter Dust Block"? I'm talking to one of the biggest latifundists in the country, Petra Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Why didn't you let your faction command vote for this important law? Why do you take away the opportunity of farmers to inherit, own, own land, make a living, and feed their families? I'm addressing colleagues from the People's Front who have also cast a small number of votes in favour of this law. Some guy and everybody else, aren't you ashamed? When you do not support farmers and deprive Ukrainians of the opportunity to be their host on earth. What do you want? Do you want foreigners to be on this land? You're here. Step out of this cozy warm room and go to the village and see what life is like. Why is there no life? Because you, the dominant coalition, are pursuing a policy of giving this land away for free. You didn't give them a penny of credit, and you didn't give them a penny of government support. You didn't give them any taxes. You didn't give them an elementary uterine. And they can't form state acts on the ground. And the blue - haired ones, where cows were hunted, burned, and built their belongings, because there is nothing left in the village. What have you brought the village to, the parasites?Oh, my God! And you still want to sell the land? I mean, I demand that the head of Parliament publish a list of those who did not vote for land for farmers in the parliamentary newspaper Voice of Ukraine. I'll hang your faces on every pole, in every village, in the country markets. At the train stations, at the country stops, people waiting for the bus to read and spit in your faces for not voting. Keep your hands and feet dry for putting the future of the country today, taking the future away from the Ukrainians! You want to sell the land to put 3 coins in your pocket. You've had a lot of marshmallows your whole life, and you won't, because money is water. And the land, the master of the Ukrainians, must be. I will not let you sell Ukrainian land to foreigners, in this Parliament or in the next Parliament. As long as I'm in Parliament, no one sells the land to foreigners. And I'm going to force you to change state policy to support Ukrainian peasants so that our people can earn money rather than feed competitors. Insomnia, parasites, bastards!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u17	So let's move on to the next issue of the agenda of the agrarian policy block -- this is the draft of the Agricultural Cooperation Act (6527, 6527-1 and 6527-d). But the committee insists that we consider it as a complete procedure, so I'm not even going to propose a shorter procedure. And, colleagues, I'm starting my consideration of draft Law 6527. I would like to emphasize that the rapporteurs will be Kucher Mikola Ivanovich, then Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, Labazjuk Sergey Petrovich, and then the committee's report. One thing at a time, I'm going to invite the rapporteurs to the floor. And first, I'd like to invite you to the words of Kucher Mikol Ivanovich, please. Full, yes, full, it's a huge bill, vast.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u18	Thank you. I would like to present to you the draft Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation (Registration No. 6527). The bill proposes a systematic and comprehensive regulation of all legal relations regarding the formation and cessation of agricultural cooperatives, taking into account international standards and better world practices. At the same time, I would like to point out that an agrarian committee, together with professional associations and experts, has prepared a draft draft bill on agricultural cooperation (registration number 6527-d), which is jointly supported by members of our committee. The bill addresses a number of issues that still needed a legislative settlement. First. The bill simplifies the regulation and creation of cooperative activities, provides for the order of exit, the exclusion of a member of an agricultural cooperative or the liquidation of such a cooperative. Strengthens the contribution mechanism of the members of the cooperative solely in the size in which the corresponding contributions were made. The other one. Allows previously registered cooperatives to bring their documents into conformity with this law within 3 years of its adoption. Third. Members of cooperatives may be both natural and legal persons. Previously, legal persons were simply not able to be members of cooperatives. It is also envisaged that an associate member of a cooperative who is not obliged to participate in agricultural activities of a cooperative is present, and the associate member receives payments for pies in size and in order to comply with the cooperative’s statute. In the course of the liquidation of the cooperative, an associate member of an agricultural cooperative has the predominant right, compared with other members of the cooperative, to return the pie. Cooperatives can be both profitable and unprofitable. This clearly strengthens the mechanism for the distribution of the net financial result of the agricultural cooperative’s income, except for the agricultural cooperatives that operate without profit. The profitable agricultural cooperatives will be able to implement products grown by members of the cooperative, which will only contribute to the development of domestic farming. At the legislative level, State support for agricultural co-operation, both from state and local budgets, in the form of compensation of up to 90 percent of the amount of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance paid by the relevant agricultural cooperatives (ESAs). In general, the bill will promote the legalization of agricultural production in small and small farms and the development of the agricultural service market. Of course, its adoption will contribute to the increase in the number of singles, the development of land relations, and the agricultural service market. In view of the above, I would like to ask you to support, on the basis of this very amended bill, 6527-d. Why did we choose a path to fully update the legislation on agricultural cooperation? We've always been told that we exaggerate the problem in Ukraine with agricultural cooperation. No, it's not all right. Here are just some numbers. In Ukraine today, agricultural production accounts for only one per cent of agricultural production, while in EU countries it is between 40 and 50 per cent, and in individual countries and sectors it is up to 70 per cent. In service cooperatives, we have a total of 30,000 people working in Ukraine's 0.2 rural population. There are fewer than half of those registered by nearly a thousand manufacturing and service cooperatives, and they exist on paper — that is, the difference is impressive. And this unagreed, outdated legislation does not meet international standards. So there's a quality, modern bill that will, without exaggeration, give small and medium-sized agricultural producers a chance to compete on equal rights with agroholdings, which is extremely important. The members of the cooperative will determine for themselves what kind of cooperative activity they have, significantly lowering the price of products, removing one or more intermediaries between the consumer and the food producer. Access to the banking services of small and medium -sized farmers who have merged into a cooperative will be important. Can agricultural co-operation, combining economic and social factors, become in Ukraine under legislative regulation one of the promising forms of agricultural development? We're sure he will. Then, worked together with FAO and EBRD experts, a new draft law. This is the principle of a new approach to the agricultural cooperative as an effective form of a merger of farmers that can work effectively in the market. So, given the above, please support Bill 6527-d. Thank you. At the same time, by opening up new opportunities for agricultural cooperation, we tried to preserve and not destroy even the small part of the cooperative that exists today. For three years, active cooperatives can work with those rights and obligations that lie ahead of the adoption of the law. But even if they want to, they can continue their work under conditions and features that are actually the same as when they were created. What's more, and this has actually become the subject of drafting a bill on the committee, we're solving for these cooperatives the problems that are in the current law, namely: we're allowing the creation of a core fund to carry out our activities and the right of members to pay their contributions back in case of termination or liquidation of a cooperative. This is the principle of a new approach to the agricultural cooperative as an effective form of a merger of farmers that can work effectively in the market. At the same time, the draft bill, I emphasize once again, was the FAO EBRD together and the professional associations. We've worked with experts on the possibility of a monthly payment of cooperative costs for pies, for part-time work, and in order to resolve the issue, we've made some proposals to Bill 6527-d. At the same time, I would like to say that this bill foresees an opportunity that has not been anticipated before: the creation and activities of agricultural and cooperative associations, the so-called "second-level cooperatives", which are now extremely common in the world. In doing so, agricultural cooperatives, namely agricultural cooperatives, also retain the right to establish and be members of cooperative associations established under the Ukrainian Cooperation Act. Thus, the legislative regulation proposed by the bill, on the one hand, allows for the preservation of all existing conditions for those agricultural cooperatives and agricultural producers who, despite the imperfections of our current legislation, plan to continue or start their activities under such conditions, and on the other, offer agricultural producers new opportunities for agricultural cooperation. The new edition of the Law on Agricultural Cooperation is also proposed at the legislative level to strengthen and expand the content of the principles of the establishment and activities of agricultural cooperatives and agricultural cooperatives, such as voluntary participation in agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives, democracy, the obligation to participate in agricultural cooperatives or agricultural cooperatives in its economic and other activities, autonomy, independence, and the promotion of agricultural cooperatives. We're talking about education, education, information. Cooperation between cooperatives, taking into account the interests of the territorial communities. In line with these principles, which are in line with the principles of the International Cooperative Alliance’s public knowledge and taking into account the experience of other developed States, there are clear foundations for the management of the cooperative, the rights and responsibilities of its members in the agricultural cooperative process, the introduction of special provisions on cooperative education, the participation of agricultural cooperatives in the implementation of social functions in rural areas. The bill introduces the possibility of adopting decisions by agricultural cooperatives, taking into account the additional number of votes of members proportional to their participation in agricultural activities. This practice exists in most EU Member States while preserving the principle of democracy in the management of a cooperative. Thus, according to the bill, the statute of the agricultural cooperative or agricultural cooperative association, which is adopted solely by the rule: one member - one vote - may provide that when its members make decisions in the general meetings of such a cooperative of all the issues referred to in the competence of the general assembly of the agricultural cooperative, they have an additional number of votes in proportion to their participation in the economic activity of such a cooperative, a share of each person in dealing with the relevant cooperative or labour participation in the activities of the cooperative. At the same time, such an additional number of votes that one member of the agricultural community may have may not be more than one sixth of the total number of votes of members of the agricultural cooperative, and the total additional number of votes that members of the agricultural cooperative may have may not be more than one third of the total number of votes of members of the agricultural cooperative. Moreover, voting with the additional votes indicated does not apply when decisions are made, when amendments are made to the statute, when changes are made to the rules of the agricultural cooperative’s domestic activities, to the introduction or exit of the agricultural cooperative, to the organization and reorganization of the collective.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u19	Please finish, yes. How much time do you need to finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u20	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u22	The bill greatly optimizes the decision-making system of the general cooperative congregations. Thus, the bill gives the agricultural cooperative the statutory participation of a member of a cooperative in general congregations by way of his or her will to vote in writing in the daytime. Therefore, given the above, I would like to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u23	Thank you. Please remain at the rostrum. And I'm asking the people's deputies to have a party. Please sign up for the interview. Please hold the recording. Please welcome to the floor of the People's Deputy Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u24	Mr. Kucher, would you please tell me at all how, in your opinion, it can improve, indeed, the situation today? This is an increase in gross product, an increase, really, the very approach to this? Why? Because we listen to everything, it's like it's okay, but we want to be more specific if we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u25	More specifically, I want to say that the bill deals with a lot of issues that have not been resolved so far. First. It gives small and very small, medium - size enterprises, agricultural producers a chance to unite and compete in the market. It's a very important thing. The other one. We are talking about the creation of agricultural cooperatives. It wasn't in the legislation. Third. We allow ourselves to participate in the creation of cooperatives not only to individuals but also to legal persons. That was not the case either. That is, we're creating a system where we can create and operate high-quality cooperatives that we couldn't even dream of before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u26	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u27	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mikola Ivanovich, I don't really understand why we don't manage to develop agricultural cooperation in the legislative field, but I'm happy that this problem in your mind can be modernized and taken on a different meaning. I think that out of 30,000 service cooperatives, we can put some pretty straightforward numbers: there, in a year, we're going to have 300,000, for example, if we have. Does this bill determine the idea of attaching the number of heads of the WCC or other cattle, for example, because there are jobs, permanent jobs for the village, as one of the tools for saving the Ukrainian village? And the second. Does this bill address the issue of taxation? In fact, there was the idea of moving to taxation from the acre of grilling to synogage.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u28	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u29	in the rental use of a particular cooperative or farm? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u31	I'd like to fix it a little bit. We don't have 30,000 cooperatives today, we have 30,000 people working in cooperatives. And the share of cooperatives in agricultural production is only 1 percent, while in European countries it is 70 percent, 40.50 percent. So cooperatives and cooperatives, which we have, especially in France, allow small, very small, medium-sized producers to unite, and at the same time, they are given the opportunity to compete with large businesses, large holding companies. And that's a pretty serious way and a good way. Moreover, if you were listening, 90, there is the same possibility as for farmers, starting from 90, for the following year – 80, 70, 60, the EU’s payment. We support them, so it's State support for these agricultural cooperatives that can actually get on their feet and work effectively. As far as taxes are concerned, we have taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u32	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u33	It's a tax, a fixed tax, and a tax on public land that's being paid, a corresponding percentage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u34	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kozachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u35	Please pass the word to John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u36	Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u37	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, the Law on Agricultural Cooperation has just been heard, and it's not bad, and it's true. And we still have to address this issue at the state level, which unfortunately we don't have today, we've heard everything: and the order of acquisition, the termination of membership, the distribution of property, income and so on. And that's a really big question. But I'd still like to ask you again, although Paul Kishkar and others just asked me. Well, Mikola Ivanovich, do you believe that even on equal rights, simple members of cooperatives and so on with agroholdings large, does it really give you the right to regulate the bill? Although we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u38	Thank you. Any union, it's always positive. Here we are talking about unification: (a) individuals, the unification of legal persons, and once again the unification of cooperatives. That is to say, this merger will allow more money to be concentrated, market access, and access to banking services to be improved. So this merger allows for a cooperative, and by creating conditions for it, if you know, we have today, except for the EU that I'm talking about, for cooperatives, the conditions created when 70 percent of the value of the equipment they buy comes back. So if we create these conditions for cooperatives, we'll be able to do it in a few years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u39	Yes. Yeah. And we can actually raise their levels and really make them this way, although cooperative. We had such cooperative legislation that we just couldn't give it. Today they'll get it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u40	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna. People's MP Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u41	Good afternoon. Well, the question of the earth is obvious. The creation of cooperation is obvious. But your bill provides for the possibility of obtaining ownership of land with long-term use. Is it possible to make additions to avoid such issues, such as, in creating such possibilities, no one in our agriculture, which is self-sufficient, will be able to compete against more rich foreign investment or funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u42	Members of the cooperative are landowners, not cooperatives. That is, people, both legal and natural persons who become members of the cooperative, are the owners of the land. And the cooperatives, you know, divide into service cooperatives and divide into cooperatives manufacturers. In addition, which profitable cooperatives or not profitable cooperatives. So I think we're giving all the possibilities and there's no movement with the ground. Because the owners are those people and those legal persons who are members of the cooperative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u43	Thank you. And the final question is the national MP, Jurik. You don't? Please, Melnichenko National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u44	Dear speaker, today in our country, gathers, and, in particular, in the Hmielnicke District, acquires the rotations of the fruit - growing enterprises — raspberries, smourberries, and agross. And you have to say that they even went on: not just sell raw materials in Poland and Germany, but they're doing processing, freezing themselves. How will this law affect these businesses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u45	This law will help these businesses to cooperate with other businesses, produce products, and sell together. I once saw, for example, berries and wine cooperatives in France, when they all look like they're building factories, and then this plant works for several days for each member of the cooperative. I think this kind of collaboration will allow you to co-operate with costs, opportunities, resources. And I'm sure it's just a plus for these businesses, especially those that do berries, apples and other vegetables and fruits.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u46	Thank you. Thank you for reporting this bill. We are now going to consider an alternative bill. And I invite you to the report of the National MP Ivchenk Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u47	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, just to be interesting, I'm going to add some international experience to what my colleague said. So, colleagues, world experience convinces us that cooperation has contributed to the development of many countries around the world. Yes, in Europe, cooperatives are an important part of economic life. Today, there are 250,000 cooperative companies in the EU, with 163 million citizens, and 1 out of every 3 citizens in the EU, who are actually giving jobs to another five and a half million people. In Norway, Finland, Sweden, Japan, 100 percent of farmers are cooperatives. In France and Germany, about 80, in the United States, within 30. In the EU countries, two groups of cooperatives, colleagues, were the most widely distributed. The first one deals with food, processing, and marketing, wholesale or retail agricultural products. The second is engaged in the wholesale trade of products and their subsequent supply directly to agriculture and the population. Colleagues, in France and Germany, the coverage of farms by cooperatives is smaller, but they are taking place in the internal and external markets of about half the agricultural sector. French cooperatives produce and sell up to 70 percent of the international market. Their participation in the production of alcohol, including olive oil, is also significant. Colleagues, Sweden, and Finland’s cooperatives supply about 60 percent of agricultural products to farmers. Research has shown that there are 3,000,500 agricultural cooperatives operating in France. 60 percent of this product is produced by cooperatives. Grain sales are the most common among cooperatives. Colleagues, grain sales in France take place between 60 and 70 percent because of cooperatives. Pigs are 65 percent, more than half the milk. The French processing cooperatives account for 40 to 45 percent of the total production, including the food industry. Colleagues in Finland, cooperatives, bringing almost all farmers together, provide them with the necessary conditions of production: lending, product implementation, and application of advances in scientific and technological progress. In practice, cooperatives supply up to 50 percent of mineral fertilizers, 60 percent of nutrients, 40 percent of technology, and fuel. The extent of cooperative development, such as in the United States, is evidenced by their experience: there are only 3,000 650 cooperatives with a volume of trade, a colleague, and $120 billion. The number of members of such cooperatives is 3 million 353 thousand. The number of employees in such cooperatives is up to 200,000. My colleagues, once again, I want to tell you that 50 percent of the production of Belgium, Britain, Poland, the Netherlands, Austria and Denmark. 95 percent of this is realized by agricultural cooperatives. Nearly 90 per cent of the dairy industry in the EU and North America are cooperative, 90 per cent. Because of their cooperatives, farmers sell olive oil: 60 percent Spain, Greece; 69 percent Finnish meat; 72 percent in Belgium; 95 percent in the Netherlands; and more than 50 percent in France. Colleagues, I must say that co-operation and actual legislation, improved legislation and cooperation are the last link of agrarian transformation, especially for those who form their agrarian arrangements on family farming or individuals or single farms. This is their final stage. Why? Because only by pooling, sharing, or serving together members of such cooperatives can they get the best price. Colleagues, cooperation, especially those who run their own farms, I said, on a family basis, is now an irreversible process. We need to look at cooperation as a tool for economic and social self-protection of agriculture. What we have today, colleagues, in Ukraine. I told you about international experience. Now look what's in Ukraine. In Ukraine today there are 1,097 cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives. Of this total, only 589 real economic activities are carried out. According to the types of these 589 service cooperatives, they were distributed into: processing, 25 of them, manufacturing and distribution, 149 of them, supply, 16, service, 101, and multifunctional cooperatives, 298. Colleagues, I told you, the United States' turnover through co-operation and sales is 120 billion, and 163 million people in the European Union are involved. Do you know how much is involved in cooperation in Ukraine? 25 grand. I'm just leading where I'm going, where I'm going. We have a clear understanding with you of what these bills are for, and what stimulus to the economy of Ukraine, especially in the agricultural sector, these laws will give. What is proposed by our law, what makes it different from the previous law. Unlike 6527, we: (a) have settled the issue of non-profit of agricultural service providers; (b) have settled land issues inside a cooperative, in particular with regard to land-based land as a pie, as well as the possibility of obtaining new land for haystacking and grazing. We've sorted the issue of cooperative payments in service cooperatives, because in the current law, which is in force today, we've missed the main source of revenue from cooperative payments. This is not only a return to members of a cooperative part of the previously overpaid value of the cooperative services provided, but also a return from the sales of the products produced by members of the cooperative and transferred to it for implementation. We've decided that it's possible for a service cooperative to provide services not only to its members, but also 20 percent to enable them to make their own profits, plus 20 percent of us have allowed these cooperatives to provide more than just services to the members of the cooperative. We have created preconditions for the emergence of credit agricultural service cooperatives, and for cooperative banks, whose members will be able to obtain affordable funds in such banks or cooperatives, including through public funds, which is the most effective mechanism for lending small forms of trade union, just as it works in countries of the European Union. Colleagues, we've established the possibility of a proportional distribution of votes independent of contributions, so it's not like one put 40 percent and would have 40 percent of the votes. No, one member is one vote, no matter how many contributions he made. We have created preconditions for introducing simplified accounting for service cooperatives in Poland's experience. And finally, we've put in place financial support for service providers, especially to maintain their material and technical base. Colleagues, we've done our utmost to improve the legislation that is currently in force with regard to agricultural cooperation. And we want you to support the "Paternity" initiatives, and we ask you to support those initiatives that you'd like to take as part of the international experience that I've just told you about. And more importantly, understand one thing: today this is the last stage of transformation that has to be built on the creation of cooperation, and this is especially important for those who will form their agricultural system based on their own agriculture, farmers, family farmers. This will enable them to gather and get the best price, as well as to be able to use cooperatives or to buy food and mineral fertilizers for their members, to serve their members, and to implement cultivated products through cooperative associations. Please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u48	Thank you, reporter. Please stay at the rostrum. And we're going to the questions. Please prepare to participate in the recording. And I'm asking you to do the recording. You have the opportunity to ask the rapporteur for an alternative bill. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Jurik. Please, National Deputy Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u49	Dear Vadim Evgenovich, I have a question for you. Please tell me, will your law give preference to cooperatives so that they can engage credit resources in order to effectively develop their activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u50	Thank you, colleague. I've already said that we've created a precondition in our bill for the creation of credit services for agricultural cooperatives. What does that mean? This means that farmers, farmers, farmers, farmers can create a suitable cooperative to provide credit to others, such as cooperatives, other forms of farming, including farmers, family farmers, and so forth. The other one. These cooperative associations are, of course, a form of farming. They can work with banks, they can work with the Ministry and get government support. Because of these cooperatives, we can engage state support, and we have foreseen that the main thing is to upgrade the material and technical base of such cooperatives. That's why we predicted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u51	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Melnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u52	Dear colleague, please tell me, how does your law differ in principle from the law of our colleague who spoke before you, Kucher? What Is the Difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u53	Thank you. My colleagues, let me put it this way: you know, as early as 2005, the Timoshenko government launched a cooperative movement strategy. And unfortunately, the government of Azarov has not made a single penny. And then the cooperative movement began to decline, including the failure of existing legislation. I, my colleagues, have named eight points during the speech, unlike Bill 6527, which we have foreseen, taking into account international experience. I want to say again that we have settled the issues of non-profit, settled land issues within the cooperative; sorted the issue of cooperative payments in the service cooperative; enabled the service cooperative to provide services by 20 percent more than it is in the cooperative; created preconditions for the creation of credit service providers; and establishing the possibility of proportional distribution of votes: one person is one vote. It's not going to be 40 percent, and you have 40 percent of the votes of cooperatives. Creating preconditions for the introduction of simplified accounting, as is the case in Poland today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u54	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u55	creating preconditions for the introduction of a simplified accounting practice, as well as the introduction of financial support for service providers. I think when the next colleague comes forward, we're going to be discussing, as, say, the authors of the first two bills, we're going to say that we're not included in the bill that the committee passed, and we're going to be asking the room, under the transcript, to adopt the bill that the committee adopted. But taking into account the proposals from two bills, including the Timoshenko-Yvchenko bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u56	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u57	Thank you very much. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Vadim Evgenovich, in fact, we can no doubt argue that the development of agricultural cooperation is the basis for the overall development of agricultural business, we can see this in the case of the countries of the European Union, in some countries it reaches 70 percent of the total agricultural market. But justice for the sake of saying that the eight differences that you have in your bill are taken out in Bill 6527-d because it's worked out, and these positions are actually contained in this bill. Vadim Evgenovich, I have a simple question for you. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council has made 11 warnings about your bill, especially that it does not comply with existing legislation and some positions will clearly conflict with existing legislation. Please tell me, well, in fact, you've already answered before, if you don't think it's more necessary to support a committee bill that's worked out than simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u58	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u59	and just some really innovative ideas that are contained in your bill to join a bill that has already been drafted and developed by committee members? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u60	Thank you. I want to say that the science-expert agency made a note to all the bills, but the bill, in fact, 6527-d, it's been worked out, and it's also been worked out by a group of MPs from Fatherland. We are not the authors of bill "d," but we are the authors of a bill that we wrote ourselves. We've decided that we, the Fatherland faction, will vote in favour of Bill "d," because it's more complex and it's done according to the recommendations that we've been making, including these eight points that we've passed. There are three observations that we will talk about during the vote, which today are the principles for the development of agricultural cooperation. One of them, for example, is that a financial resource in a cooperative can't be distributed monthly. That means we're going to turn cooperatives into public stock companies that are just going to distribute revenue every month, and so they're going to form people directly, form them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u62	Form workers, people, and thus do not pay taxes to local budgets and government budgets. Basic taxes, you know, budgeting, are VAT. We have shown how we can get out of this situation. I think the committee has already supported it, will support the hall, and we will vote in favour of the Bill Three D.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u63	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u64	Thank you. Please pass the word to John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u65	Please, John Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u66	Of course, we've heard a lot about the second bill, but I'm not wrong about your figures: 1 thousand 097 cooperatives in Ukraine are involved with 25,000 people. Of course, it's very small, or you could say it's nothing compared to the numbers you've given in Europe, America and so on. But the only question to you is, I don't like it, and I probably don't know if we're going to be listening to the third bill right now, just one member -- one vote. Well, for me, it's kind of unfair. Someone has one percent, someone has 40 percent, and they have the same amount. Well, shouldn't it be like that, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u67	You know, the point of cooperation is to unite in order to sell, produce, and sell the product as much as possible. This union, says that it is the statutory, statutory things: the selection of directors there, the selection of accountants, the selection of a strategy -- that will be determined by the grouping of people, that is, people who will be in a cooperative or, for example, agricultural enterprises, or farmers, and so on. Income is distributed according to contributions. Income is distributed according to contributions. If, if a cooperative, one member of a cooperative is willing to contribute more to a cooperative, whether it's grain or mineral fertilizer or something else, he's certainly getting more than that. And we're only talking about statutory things that only affect the economic activity of the relevant host subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u68	Thank you. One last question. Please, the People's Deputy of Krivoshia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u69	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Good day to the speaker. That's the question. Well, first of all, I would like to thank every college that has signed every bill -- both alternative and essential -- because the issue is pretty important, the question is quite relevant. But given some observations that are from the science department, Mr. Vadim, I'd like to look at the situation for the following. See, in the amendments to article 34, part 1, of our law, agricultural cooperatives, whose members are exclusively natural persons, are given the right to rent land for haystacking and grazing. However, in the 22nd article, part three, it is stipulated that only citizens can rent land for hayhairing and grazing. Where am I leading? If we're talking to today about what the undergraduate is ready to do, in principle, everyone back up, will this observation of scientific and scientific management be taken into account in this edition? Because it's important today, because we can't leave ordinary, ordinary citizens who don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u70	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u71	We can't have ordinary, ordinary citizens in a village without the right to rent land for livestock, so that it doesn't make them go into a cooperative. You understand what I mean. So I'm asking you to answer whether everything is going to be taken into account. If you don't, please, if it's hard to focus on this right now, I'd like this to be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u72	My friend, understand what a cooperative is. The cooperative is the same host entity as a family farm, a farmer, an agricultural enterprise, or a limited liability society that directs the production of produce there. The same dominating entity. The same host entity is given the normal right to participate in the rental of suitable land for members of the cooperative. And we're talking about a service cooperative, that is, providing services to this cooperative directly: whether it's land processing, whether it's hay cooking, because we need to directly do hay cooking in order to provide services for the distribution of hay there for cows and so on, including the implementation of production. It happens the same way. I just want you to know what I'm talking about. A colleague asked me, 25 thousand people, I'll tell you more. In total, there are about one and a half thousand people involved in cooperatives today — why this sector is not perfect in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u73	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u74	One and a half thousand people, while in the United States five and a half million people, while in Europe as a whole, more than eight million people have received jobs and are paying taxes as cooperative workers who are actually working in a cooperative. That's why it's important to us. No one will be deprived; it is solely the prerogative of the appropriate rural, village council to manage the land under haystacks.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u75	Thank you, thank you very much. And please, you can take your place. And we're going to move on to the next alternative bill, which will be presented by the Ukrainian People's Deputy Sergey Labazük. I understand it's gonna be Bill 6527-d, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u76	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u77	I've been working with the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u78	That's right. Dear Chairman, honourable national deputies, first of all, before we go to the draft, to the report, I would like, as we have enough time, to focus our attention. And my colleagues have already said a lot about the substance of the bill, both of them. And now I'm going to report on an alternative that's being co-worked on a committee with a profile association where we've had a lot of consultations. And on the basis of the questions that were before my colleagues, I would like to point out that today the committee is working together with associations. And we're looking for models that will allow us to develop an agro-industrial complex in Ukraine. And virtually everything is the eighth call, by drafting drafts, we call on Monday's session on the Conciliation Council to include in the agenda those bills that are already worked and supported by the committee. Every week on Tuesday, from all the factions and groups, we also make a proposal to consider our draft laws. And I'm sad today to point out from this rostrum the fact that the daily agrarian so-called day has repeatedly been put into order, but it has not come before our drafts, and if it has, there are not enough votes in the session room, although these are extremely important bills. These are extremely important subjects that both a small farmer and a single individual and our entire agrarian state are awaiting today. If you say, look at the digital language, what we've achieved and what we've done in the last ten years, it's the agricultural sector that has evolved in the country, not because conditions have been created, but because our peasants and our famously fertile land have been working for the outcome. So today our theme, which is discussed in these halls, is also the opportunity that we could solve a number of issues, first and foremost, to allow single farmers, individuals living in rural areas, to create cooperatives, to unite and to make money. Because today they're not in equal conditions with medium and large agribusiness, I'm not talking about our neighbours of European farmers anymore. That agri-industrial complex that dictates conditions in the free market, and if we don't allow them through a normal transparent scheme to combine cooperative movement, we don't give them a transparent system in which they can work and make decisions themselves, we won't be able to give them the opportunity to develop, and we won't in the future care for you in this session room to solve employment problems. We're not going to think about how to find funds for the social protection of our people, because they're going to be self-sufficient, and they're still going to be able to create new jobs through this unique tool that we're proposing today through these bills. So, honourable national MPs, dear voters, the draft Ukrainian Agricultural Cooperation Act (registration number 6527-d) is being proposed for consideration by Parliament. As my colleagues have already said, this is a bill that's been really worked out for months on the committee, discussed with the agricultural sector, with the professional associations, with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, which we work closely with. And in this form, we believe that real documents can be written that should not only be accepted but also work for the benefit of our nation. So before we go directly to the bill, I want to emphasize and narrowly outline why we have chosen to completely update the legislation on agricultural cooperation. We were often teased, and I think they exaggerated that there really are no problems. There is a problem. And today, in Ukraine, agricultural co-operation, it exists exclusively on paper, because there's a separate strawberry cooperative somewhere, maybe a dairy, and there's still some small grain cooperatives in Ukraine that we're hearing about, but that's not enough. So let's be clear that the role of these cooperatives today is extremely modest on the basis of our entire nation. And just a few figures, colleagues, today should be emphasized to make that clear. The proportion of production cooperatives in total agricultural production in Ukraine is less than 1 per cent, and the number of natural persons in agricultural cooperatives is less than 30,000, which is less than 0.2 per cent of the rural population of Ukraine. Although we realize that agriculture itself can provide more opportunities for people living in rural areas to be involved. So out of about a thousand manufacturing and service cooperatives registered, less than half of them exist on paper. And this emphasizes once again that the system that has worked and worked for today is not just imperfect, it is inconvenient, and it does not allow agricultural cooperation to develop. Instead, in the entire civilized world, agricultural cooperatives are one of the most common forms. agricultural producers. Their share in the agricultural market, for example in the European Union, is between 40 and 50 percent. And in some countries that have taken this direction seriously, that's income up to 70 percent today. So 70 percent in developed countries of the European Union and 1 percent in the agrarian state of Ukraine. 1 percent versus 40th or 50th, we realize that it's not just not impressive, but it's very sad enough. What is stopping the development of agricultural cooperation in Ukraine, will you ask? To our conviction, after a detailed analysis that we discussed, not one was the exit committee and the exit meetings, at which the issue was raised again not in theory, not in the offices of the Supreme Council alone, but directly in the farms, in the territories where they work. And I'm pleased to note that every year we've come to the discussion and to open our committees -- and we've always been open and invited representatives of the agro-industrial complex of different forms of farming to come to our committee, to ask questions -- we've always been willing to listen to the wishes, to the tasks of our so-called voters and, of course, to write legislative initiatives together. So if you take a short look at the project, it's going to give us a lot of positive possibilities. That is: without overdoing it will give small and medium-sized agricultural producers an opportunity to compete on equal rights with agroholdings, and I stress once again, not exclusively within Ukraine. It will also provide opportunities for our cooperatives to go to European, global markets. Members of the cooperative can determine for themselves what kind of cooperative activity they will have. Prices for food will decrease considerably by removing one or more intermediaries between the consumer and the food producer. What does this talk about? We've heard from producers many times, and we know that's true: one who works hard for a year on his part-time farmland with his livestock, is compelled to sell his produce to intermediaries who literally, what's called a day-to-day deal, two times a week, make more money than a peasant who's working hard on the ground. And when we communicate with agrarians, we are often asked questions. And I'm convinced that the people's deputies also hear, whether it's the representatives of the agro-industrial complex, whether it's the representatives of the agrarian committee, or whether it's other areas of activity from which the people's deputies came out before they came into politics. You and I both know that people complain, a bottle of milk made with heavy labor today costs less than a bottle of water. I don't talk about how people grow potatoes for a year, then they sell them for cash or they trade them for something, and this potato is already in the city where a city citizen is forced to buy three times as much as four times the cost. Thus, the bill gives us a clear picture of how to reduce the cost of agricultural produce for the final consumer in the city and at the same time allow for more income for the direct producer through a merger in a cooperative. Access to the banking services of small and medium -sized farmers who have merged into cooperatives will be improved. Today, unfortunately, we also hear complaints about how to get a natural person or a single person or a small farm to borrow money from a bank in order to buy modern agricultural technology, equipment, build a new house or buy a new livestock, there is no possibility of that. By uniting into a cooperative, we are confident that such an opportunity will come. So can agricultural co-operation, combining economic and social factors, become in Ukraine under proper regulation, of course, one of the promising forms of agricultural development in Ukraine? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I can say that this will be the case today. At the same time, when we opened up new opportunities for agricultural cooperation, we tried to preserve that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u79	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u80	We tried to preserve and not destroy even that small part of the cooperatives that already exist exist today and, on the contrary, give them the opportunity to develop more. We also took into account their wishes and suggestions. For three years, active cooperatives can work with the same rights and obligations as with the adopted law. But even if they want to, they can continue their activities in terms and in terms that are actually the same as what they were made for. What's more, and this was actually the subject of the amended bill, in the committee we're solving for these cooperatives the problems that are in the current legislation, which is that we're giving the opportunity to form a core fund to carry out our activities and the right of members to pay their contributions back in case of the exit or liquidation of such a cooperative. There is no such possibility today. Then, worked together with FAO and EBRD experts, a new draft law is basically a new approach to agricultural cooperatives as an effective form of merger of farmers that can work effectively in the market. We have worked with experts on this issue for many months. And today the possibility of adopting this bill will determine much, as will the payment of cooperative payments on pies for the participation in a cooperative. And in order to address all the issues that have arisen in us, such as alternative bills, the second sentence of part three of article 26 of the bill, we propose that we put in the following wording: "The size of such cooperative payments is determined by the results of the financial year in proportion to the work participation of a member of the cooperative in the order determined by the decision of the higher authority of the cooperative," that is to say, to recreate the approach that is enshrined in the current legislation. To supplement article 27 of the bill with a new part of this content: "In an agricultural cooperative that operates without a purpose of profit, payments on pies are not made," i.e. to remove the possibility of double readings in this part. Taking this opportunity, I'd like to give you another example, and on the basis of our European partners again, and a single producer can't influence the price level of both the purchase and the realisation of the manufactured products and the manufacturing industries. So a group of farmers or a cooperative union is viewed as the only powerful organization capable of purchasing large quantities of goods and services and of carrying out large quantities of production. A significant advantage of cooperative associations is the possibility of sharing experiences among farmers regarding agricultural efficiency, as well as the desire to work as part of associations, groups, and not on its own. Again today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u81	Please tell me I'm sorry, how long do you need to finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u82	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u83	Two more minutes? All right, two more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u84	Thank you. I think the bill, it's just so deep and it's important for us to discuss it in detail today so that we can make the right, balanced decision with you, the more we are left in the room. As a result of the combined efforts of farmers in a single organization and the advantages of purchasing raw materials and implementing products, the level of income of production is increasing. We understand when today a single person or a small farmer buys a ton, or two tons of mineral fertilizer, or a ton of solar power, of course he can't get the price of a large agroholding that buys tens, hundreds of tons. In a merger of cooperatives. And the VAT, that's what the colleagues are saying. As part of its integration into a cooperative, it is also an optimal purchase and an optimal opportunity to sell that agricultural product. So we're allowing for normal and healthy competition. Thus, by joining the cooperatives, farmers have the opportunity to increase their own development credit production, as well as their ability to use it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u85	I'm sorry, Mr. Labazük, I want to pay attention to our computer. It's about time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u86	It's okay. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u87	Thank you. Thanks again for supporting me. Thus, officially registered cooperatives, both producer groups and directly farmers, can receive both material and technical support from the State. This support includes vocational training, farm modernisation, product certification for food quality requirements. We also know today that we have a rather severe competition in international markets. And, on the one hand, the positive thing is that we've got access to European markets, to world markets, on the other hand, we understand that if we don't get certified and go to modern European, world standards, our tiny one-man farmers, a cooperative that can't sell its agricultural products. Once again, we are predicting by our bill that such possibilities will be. So, honourable colleagues, I'm asking the people's deputies of all factions and groups, the non-fractional people's deputies to support Bill 6527d, based on the transcripts, the positions that I've sounded. And, of course, take an important step that, I'm sure, not just agriculture, but all the people of our country, the agrarian state of Ukraine, will be grateful to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u88	Thank you. Please remain at the rostrum. And I'd like you to record for the interview. Please, National Deputy Melnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u89	Dear Mr. Sergio, we want to be like your colleagues, and even as your fellow countrymen, we know you as a serious agrarian of the Hmielnica, to which people are treated with great respect. We want to ask you a simple question: How does your law differ from the two laws that our colleagues have reported before you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u90	Thank you. Thank you, colleague. In fact, it is our Hmielnica, and I am pleased to note that for the third year in a row Hmielničina has reached the highest levels in agriculture right after the harvest of agricultural produce, grain, and in Ukraine. But it doesn't say that we shouldn't care about a single person today, about a farmer, about a small business, but we have to provide. Because, like me, you and me, and we, the deputy majors, coming to the county, we hear not only questions but also clear questions. So the MP's bill, it's committee, I'd call it, it's been worked out, and those bills that weren't included in the first and second bills we've taken together. As I've already said under the transcript, those security guards who recommended to us people's deputies, especially the national deputies from the strike faction, I thank you, because, in fact, there were warnings that we could abuse and societies could transform into cooperatives and thus avoid paying taxes. We've taken this proposal into account and a number of other proposals, they're prescribed today, and I've done this under the transcript. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u91	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u92	That the bill is so sophisticated that we can get a good, quality document on the way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u93	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Solvar. Macola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u94	Good afternoon! Mr. Sergei, look, I've listened very carefully, and, indeed, the bill is interesting. Only one question. The preceding speakers have similarly told the same story, and so, indeed, an interesting question. But I have one question right now: how are we going to be able to adopt real law? Why? Because we all understand that the Council, well, will be working for two more months. And the word "work" is probably so softly said, loudly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u95	Thank you, Mr. Romane, for that question. But I think we have an obligation as national deputies to work until the oath of the next Supreme Council is taken. And so next week, Tuesday, June 4, we're going to start, this is my birthday day, and I think my colleagues from Hmmelnički and other national deputies are going to give me a gift, and we're going to adopt this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u96	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The good prospects are next Tuesday. Next question from the national deputy of Yemen. He's handing over the Squirrels. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u97	Good day again, fellow believers! Sergei Petrovich, well, thank you for the meaningful report. I'm very pleased that, in principle, you've worked on the committee, there's a revised bill. But, nevertheless, I would like to go back to the question that I asked Mr. Wadima before that, which he reported under Bill 6527-1, which said he supported. And, in principle, I understand that in Parliament we will support Bill 6527-d, which is finalized. One way or another, I remind you, in the changes to the first part of article 34 of the law: "Agriculture cooperatives whose members are exclusively natural persons are entitled to rent land for haystacking and grazing." Again, article 22 of part three of this law provides that land for haystacking and grazing can be rented only by citizens, or natural persons, to cooperatives. I didn't hear the full answer from Wadim, and I understand if this is included in the work done, is it possible to take this into account in the second reading?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u98	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u99	Thank you for asking. Yes, of course, we do have the opportunity to take into account the suggestions that will be in the session room today and to work on the second reading. But I would like to point out that you and I in this session room have also made decisions about the transfer of land outside and within populated areas to the administration of local self-government. And it was territorial reform and decentralization reform that was called upon to transfer this function to the scene. Thus, the heads of the united territorial communities will be able to make decisions in their territory, and they can see how much land they have in their possession, pastures, leases to cooperatives, and how much land and volume to leave for single persons. This decision will be able to be made locally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u100	Thank you. And the next question. Please, People's Deputy Squirrel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u101	Please pass the word to Hennady Kryvoshei, he has many questions to ask the reporter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u102	Please have Mr. Crawny now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u103	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. Thanks for the solid answer, in principle, I get it. The only thing I would like to say is that, to this day, the united territorial communities are not yet in possession, they have not been given all the land, and, in accordance with their respective orders, the Keepgeokadastr distributes a whole range of land. So I'd like us to ask that question as well. And here's the question of cooperatives, because we understand that very few of them today, we need to understand, or then work clearly with the State Department, because there are no questions in principle. As a rule, the heads of the united territorial communities are willing to stand up for their own. But I'll move on to the question. The science-expert department says the next thing is that the bill is being set up. and it is established by law that an agricultural service cooperative maintains accounting under the general and separate rules established by the Cabinet of Ministers. So the question is, is it in the project, because c.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u104	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u105	Project 6527-1 did not say anything, did not indicate which individual rules were mentioned and referred to, since the law did not provide for the possibility of establishing such rules at all by the Cabinet of Ministers. So I'd like us to take that into account. And so if there are such separate rules, and that's important enough, because this is an accounting account, then we have to understand that the Cabinet of Ministers, we have to assign it and they have to set these rules clearly. Therefore, a big request may not even be a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u106	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u107	Thank you, thank you for asking, or, as you said, for the assignment, I'm sure. In fact, that is how we wrote this article so that between the first and the second readings we would have the opportunity not to have to transport, but simply to add these individual items to the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u108	Please ask Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u109	Thank you, Mr. Reporter. Such a course as agricultural cooperation really needs to be maintained. The first brief question to you is the general political question. Do you think that the support of a one-man and a farmer is the rescue of a village that is so much talked about in this room? Because with 100-150 single farmers, the village will definitely live. Having one farmer, even a large, wealthy one, and even interested in developing his particular village, where he was born and raised, the advantage is still given to the economic benefit, and this village will eventually die out, and tractors and people who will be growing and harvesting will come just for a short time before that village, to do the salt trials. As for the Holdgeokadastr. The question of the transfer of land outside the populated area to the full of united territorial communities was raised by Krivoshea, and it was not resolved. Why don't we finally put a dot?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u110	Please, your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u111	Thank you for such meaningful two questions. So, really, today we're looking, as I said, for models, and we're continuing to look for them, and we're continuing to look for ways to provide and enable individuals who are singles to work and live, and to have the opportunity to live in the countryside. I can't say that we're just one of these, one of these bills is going to solve all the problems in the village. There are many other more global issues -- this is today and a socio-economic environment, which is not in the village, and infrastructure, this is a government task, but this law will provide a serious opportunity for rural development. As for the State Department, why. We understand that the problem is important. And at the beginning of the call, we passed a bill that we proposed here in the session room to make a decision. But unfortunately, our bill was not adopted, and separate standards are only given by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. But today a large number of united territorial communities have received land outside populated areas. Of course, once again, the issues have not been solved in a complex way, so I think that our vocation still has the opportunity to adopt Bill 8359 in the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u112	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u113	Or the next call, which should and should still require our bill to consider and come, is because it is a requirement of today’s united territorial communities. And more to say, it was an incentive to unite the territorial communities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u114	Thank you. Please, the final question is from the National MP of Sporish. He's given the right to a question by a national deputy named Sverk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u115	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, your bill is perhaps the most extensive, and we have heard a great deal. First of all, we heard that these are jobs. That's what we heard: profit and all that. That's very nice. Well, the fact that one percent of the production is now, at the moment, is of course, that's why we're adopting this bill. We've heard, first of all, that this is actually the competition of small and medium-sized producers at the level of agroholding. That's a big plus, of course. But the only thing I'd like to hear is that we haven't heard that question today. But if I want to get out of this cooperative, please tell me, is it all prescribed in your bill to get out freely, without any problems, the main thing, without trial? That's what I'd like to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u116	Thank you for asking. In fact, it was one of those big questions in the process, because the mechanism of getting into a cooperative and the mechanism of getting out of a cooperative, it had to be put down right away simply, perfectly, and it shouldn't create any kind of conflict inside. We realize that this can result in bad, negative consequences. So yes, there is a clearly defined mechanism, and there are no consequences for getting out of a cooperative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u117	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for the detailed presentation of your bill, the answers to your questions. Again, I'm sorry I wanted to cut your "song" in half, but you were able to present your bill in full. Please return to your workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u119	And we invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Alexander Bakumenka. Friends, the chairman of the committee, is essentially going to have 10 minutes to present. That's where we're going to conclude our session, and Tuesday we're going to start with questions to the honourable chairman of the committee and the discussion. Please, Mr. Bakumenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u120	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting on 21 June 2018 reviewed the draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation (Registration No. 6527) and the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the establishment and development of agricultural cooperation and its State support (Registration No. 6527-1). As a result of the discussion and in accordance with part two of article 110 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee decided to submit to the Committee a draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation (registration number 6527-d). The proposed new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation is a new approach to agricultural cooperatives as an effective form of merger of farmers that can work effectively in free market conditions. This is in the form of addressing all the key issues of the creation and operation of agricultural cooperatives in one law. This means that the farmer receives a convenient and clear legal field, and many colossals will no longer be the subject of litigation. By content. This is a rejection of legislation built on restrictions and prohibitions, in favour of legislation that provides opportunities and incentives for development. Everybody knows that a large proportion of the agar market in Ukraine is made up of individual production -- households, private agriculture and farming. And we in this room have often supported draft laws aimed at their development. Instead, the development of agricultural associations that would provide opportunities for joint production, access to financial and material resources, and promotion of products were neglected. Just a few examples. A single owner or household can create either a manufacturing or a service cooperative, if it is a legal person, even a farmer – solely a service provider. In doing so, the service cooperative will be able to perform operations exclusively with members of the cooperative. He can't acquire ownership and enforce it on his own behalf, can't legally pay for pies and return them if the cooperative is eliminated. Why so? Because the legislation provides that all agricultural cooperatives are non-profitable, even if they do not need it, and this non-profit status also entails all restrictions, including taxes. This significantly reduces opportunities for the development of service cooperatives and makes them competitive in the market. With the adoption of the law, members of the cooperative will determine for themselves what kind of cooperative activity they have: manufacturing, servicing, processing, or multifunctional, as well as what form — with or without profit. Farmers can set up agricultural cooperatives for joint production, which they can't do right now. The cooperative will be able to provide up to 20 percent of its services to nonmembers, namely, expanding its field of activity: a grain or milk cooperative will be able to acquire ownership of the products of its members, which offers opportunities for self-processing and access to financial instruments through the same agrarian receipts. The new possibilities offered by the bill are also the creation of a second chain of cooperation, so-called cooperatives, which have already shown their effectiveness in the world. The basics of the new Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation have preserved the concept of Bill 6527 and have also taken into account the position that was ideally laid down in the alternative bill 6527-1. This refers to improving the status of nonprofit cooperatives and state support. In this regard, fellow honourable Members, please support the committee's decision and adopt the draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation (registration number 6527-d). And I want to add something else that's important to me. You have heard that under the transcript, the national MP Labazük read out the committee's decision to take into account all the disagreements and all the suggestions made by the people's deputies. They were right, and they were read under the transcript. And I want to answer one important question for you. Why is only 1 percent produced by cooperatives in Ukraine if between 40 percent and 70 percent in Europe? Take this example. I've been working in agriculture for about 40 years. Even in Soviet times, even in Soviet times, the system of cooperation was active in the structure of gross agrarian production of 30 percent. Why? Because they were properly designed as cooking cooperatives that produced from the population: and this seed, this milk, is meat and other products. Further, cooperatives were built, bulls were purchased in the population and in the farms, and they were further cultivated. They were also dairy, processed, and meat processing plants that processed both meat and milk into final products. And what was overwhelming was the cooperative markets that were being implemented by cooperatives and peasants. And this whole system that worked as the only link of agricultural cooperation was producing its fruits. And now, in our new circumstances, this law gives the cooperative movement new weights to bring them together, both farmers and singles, and they have competitive advantages in the agricultural market in producing their products. So it's a huge bill that's been drafted for about two years by experts from all of our own, experts from international experts, those currently working in cooperatives, science to be supported in the hall. And we've given new impetus to the development of such a smooth movement as a cooperative that will provide jobs in the village. Tell me, why don't we in Carpathians create a miracle like that created in Austria or in Switzerland -- cooperatives that produce high-quality cheeses with significant personal tastes? We have all these abilities with you. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to support this bill, 6527-d. And we will give new impetus to the development of cooperatives in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u121	Thank you. We still have three minutes to ask. Let's go over the questions. Let's start with the MPs. Please record a question to the committee head, please. And I'm going to continue until the end of the debate. You're arguing with Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u122	John Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, you really sum it up, and you can see that the committee was actually working on these bills. And that's nice, and I'd really like us to accept it. But I heard from you that the Union actually had 30-40 percent of the cooperative, well, the products of the cooperative, today we have 1 percent. Well, maybe for me, for example, it's interesting that in the Union, that's what. Then it was state property, now private property. And that's probably the main reason. But, at the same time, we have to do everything we can to make the percentage increase to 50-60 and so on in any country in Europe. But, as you're saying, whether it's true or not, it was government property, or private property, and that's why it's such a difference? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u123	Not exactly. Thank you for asking. Because we had collective property as a colporteur, you know. Cooperative property is not state property, it was private property, too. But it was a system. And the main thing in this system was, as in the same one person, there was a production, and it was going to be redesigned for its own. continue to implement in these same markets. Now we have even more power because it's private property. Now the main thing is to allow them to unite and to have competitive advantages both in the price of production and in the formation of a party, so that it can be delivered and sold, and to have access to credits that could still be purchased for processing equipment, in the same dairy as this cooperative, or in berries, for processing and cooling. And we're giving this legislative opportunity in this bill. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u124	Thank you. And the final question is Paul Kishkar. And that's where we stop. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u125	Thank you for the thorough explanation. In fact, any reform and any reinforcement by the state of one instrument or another is anyway a talk about money. We have to admit it. We have a whole range of tools that the state has worked on and that are supported by the farmer, such as compensation for Ukrainian agricultural technology, such as support for the dairy sector, which pays for the young and other subsidies. There's support for gardening separately, I don't know if it works directly or not. That's why the money we're paying, including the big agroholding to support the production of chicken, why isn't it distributed today between small and medium, including those cooperatives that we mentioned, where there's not much but 30,000 people involved? Why can't this money be working for a small and medium-sized farmer right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u126	Okay. Thank you for asking. I'll give you an answer. Several programs have been made today. The first program, which is about a billion dollars, is the money that only goes to farmers. Last year, the money was less. And the main question that we asked was that they weren't worked out to the end were the mechanisms. But there's also important information about people, and that these programs keep their sequence in that year, so that people will be informed about it. This is one support program. Technology, gardens, animals, and so forth, another program. And the main thing in these programs was that we stimulate which. Animals are animals. When we say farming, it's farming. And the main thing is that this money is going to be taken. Once again, the money that was not spent, 30 percent of the 100, they went to the budget. And our main task is so that the farmer we gave the money to can get it. And this is what the Ministry is supposed to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-05-30-m1.u127	Thank you. So the time for questions is over, and unfortunately the time for our work is over, colleagues. I would like to inform you that the next Tuesday of the plenary week, we will conclude our consideration of the draft Law on Agricultural Cooperation (6527). We'll have factions from the factions, then from the national MPs. And I hope that the committee will be able to make the maximum mobilization in the positive decision room. I would also like to inform you that there is already a decision of the regulatory committee on the interim commission of inquiry. This means that next Tuesday we will be able to move on to the consideration of the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. We can consider it, and after considering it, we can go to the Electoral Codex on Open Lists. These are our key tasks for next week. The TSK law has over a thousand rights, about 500 rights left. I think it's a few hours' work, and we can make a positive decision, then the Electoral Code. Colleagues, I urge everyone to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine next week, we have a very active job and an active job to do. So I call on everyone tomorrow at 10 a.m. to come to the plenary meeting, and the next week, the TSC and the beginning of the electoral code. And at this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. Thank you. Today was a successful day, seven laws: support for Plastics, support for the military. And I think that's actually the day we were able to make a very important contribution to the legislative work. Thank you.
