ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, 4:00 p.m., I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, prepare for registration, for the continuation of our work. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Please prepare for registration. Ready, fellows, right? So, if you'd like to conduct an enrollment, please register. Let's register. [[16:03:44]] 334 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for work. Colleagues, I remind you, that by noon we had a two-block vote, and the committee heads asked us to move their questions, because there is no unity in the room. I spoke to all the factions, and they all came together to support the draft Order on Assignment in 2019 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's nominees for the most talented young scientists. This question was addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymyrovich. On the Conciliation Board, I promised that we would consider it. And the bills proposed by Mr. Spiowakovsky, even the most difficult moments, unite the entire hall, colleagues. Therefore, in view of the fact that the committees passed the bill, I am announcing the move to the draft Appointment Order of 2019 for the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. — No. 9411. And, honourable colleagues, who would like us to consider it as a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:05:27]] For-66 The hall has the political will to speak to the young in full procedure. By the way, once again, our day-to-day discussion of the land market, to my deep conviction, was of great educational importance to all Ukrainians in order to develop certain myths. And that's why we're going to go over the full procedure of Project Regulation 9411. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! We already have a very good tradition when we look at these questions about the reward of our young people, who unfortunately have a trend to leave Ukraine, we have a tradition of broad discussion in full procedure, and maybe that's nice. Maybe some of our colleagues will see that it's now being considered under the dome of the Supreme Council, maybe they'll find a way to get Kiev to come back, to discuss this issue, to tell our young people that the Supreme Council cares about young people, wants young people to stay here, to get a high salary, that the Supreme Council is doing everything to make sure that the laws are directed to make sure that higher education is best that our authorities don't send their children after school to London or the United States to be able to get quality education here in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is the second question that we considered three days ago when we identified the prizes, the prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we were talking about 20 million dollars, and that's 400,000 dollars. You remember the tenth time we voted, and we did give our young people a place to sit, that the Supreme Council might be able to consolidate around such positions. As for the second question. This is the issue of scholarships, a scholarship to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have 30 named scholarships for the most talented young scientists, each of which is 2,000 dollars a month. So one scholarship per year is 24,000 times 30, we have 720 thousand dollars. This is the price of the question that we are about to vote with you. To obtain a scholarship from the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists in the 19th year, 35 candidates from the 12 districts of Ukraine and Kiev were nominated. Geography itself shows. The geography itself shows that not all areas of Ukraine, not all areas of Ukraine, have claimed. And that's a question, by the way, to us, because yesterday at the Science and Education Committee, we offered another system, another principle of financing such bonuses and scholarships, where we would be able to set up. And we're going to be passing this bill under the Supreme Council dome, setting up 60 subsistence minimum scholarships and a corresponding premium for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, that's perfectly understandable, because in 2007, roughly, at that rate, it was $4,000 720. We've calculated the current course and we've seen that 60, exactly, of the minimum of living, corresponds to the starting position that was 12 years ago. So these questions were considered, and the competition was completely transparent. Moreover, a competition commission was created, a competition was announced in the Voice of Ukraine, and the draft decision is proposed for the results of the competition to award 30 named scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2019 for the most talented young scientists. The implementation of the decree requires, as I said earlier, 720 thousand dollars at the expense of the funds that we have already voted with you in December when we adopted the National Budget of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's find an opportunity to call our friends and colleagues, whom the people of Ukraine chose not to do their jobs, but to come here to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm talking to my colleagues at Peter Dustock's, so let's call everyone, so they can come back. I'm going to Fatherland, I'm going to the People's Front, I'm going to Self-Help, and I'm going to the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, we have about 40 minutes, please call, invite the people's deputies to their jobs, let them vote and signal our young people that there is nothing more important to Ukraine than to create conditions for the development of the young generation of Ukraine. Gas, distribution of power and all that is understandable tools, but we're all working with you for our future Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine, glory to Ukrainian youth!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Alexander. I also very much hope that during the discussion. Come back now, Mr. Alexander! Alexander Spiowakovsky, please return to your battle stations. So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to mobilize so that during the discussion we can all be in the room so that we can make a positive decision. Now I'm announcing a question to the reporter, and I'm asking you to record it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u4	I'm irrigated before the words of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u5	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, Peter Dust Block. Of course, we also heard the concern of the committee’s head, because these questions are really being passed on, they were being treated, and we carried them again. Well, I really wanted to, although few people were in the room, but we still wanted this question to be voted out. Because loving prizes for young people, for scientists, as we have already accepted, I think we should definitely accept them in our hall. That's my question to you. Please tell me, are there any people who have already called you on the committee, or have they called you in order for us to put this bill into practice, or have you had that on the committee, personally, about these bonuses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u6	Thank you for asking. These awards were actually set up 12 years ago, and every time a committee with a secretariat is doing the work, we're bringing in experts from the National Academy of Sciences, from the Field Academy of Sciences, from universities to look at these issues. Unfortunately, the trend that we saw in the 14th year, unfortunately, has fallen because of the course we have, this bonus has fallen, we see a situation that the prestige of this prize has, unfortunately, fallen. And the results I'm presenting today show once again that only 12 districts and the city of Kiev have joined this work, other areas, that's 50 percent. So we're going to need to, and we're going to suggest, consider making these bonuses a little bit. These scholarships are not much, 30 scholarships, but they should have the size to bring back prestige, especially since the President of Ukraine has 50,000 bracelets, the Cabinet of Ministers has 40,000 bracelets. That's why we can ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u7	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u8	Thank you. Mr. Alexander, this is really a necessary thing, and I'm not as pleased as you are that we're looking at it completely today. For some reason, this is what we always do when it comes to young people’s issues of education. I'd like you to announce these areas today that you haven't filed yet, and I think it's disgraceful for both Parliament and for areas that haven't been or haven't been able to submit their young scientists to receive these nominations. As long as we're here to debate and define 3 and 4 thousand dollars a month for our gifted young people, we know all well and know young scientist Freczka from Hustina, the Carpathian who, as long as we're here to debate while we're making decisions, is going to be a scholarship to the United States government. This kid, 11th grader from Hustow, developed technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear Sir, will you comment on the questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u10	It's quite obvious that just now, really, you're right, you just have to go back to the workplace and vote, because, you know, not solving these issues again shows that when we're looking at the C.I.C., we're looking at elections, we're looking at other issues, we have a full room. Well, it's just this impression that as soon as we're looking at power, money, resources, we're once again showing that we're an orphan state, we're not at all focused on creating and building human capital. Human capital is the greatest value in Ukraine, and migration, which unfortunately is happening now, shows once again that young people are also responding to us. They react very easily — with their feet and their way out of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u11	Thank you. And the final question, please, National Deputy Melnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u12	Good afternoon. Well, that's not the question of how we do good work, of course, but 30 people of 2,000 dollars a year would want it to be 30 people at least in each of our country's branches. That might give us another boost -- an impetus for young talent, for the development of our science, for the development of our industry. And I want to hear from you whether we're going to move on, we're not going to stop at 30 men and 2,000 dollars over the course of the year, well, frankly, a little bit, I want more. I want to hear your opinion and your vision of how we're going to move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u13	Thank you. Thank you for asking. Look, we've already taken the first step, three years ago, we passed a very important Law on Science and Technology, which proposed the creation of a National Research Fund. It's different from basic funding because it's a grant fund, and any team of young scientists has the opportunity to apply and have access. They can develop appropriate scientific research, create startups, and so on. And you and I have already put 262 million into the budget just to fund the National Research Fund. The system there is a transparent, open-ended scientific committee that will just take care of the issues that really scientists who are doing the research that our Ukraine needs have the opportunity to access. So the grant system started working in Ukraine since the 19th year, and so young scientists are able not only to benefit from grants and scholarships, but also through applications to have access to financial resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u14	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Committee. Please take your place. We're moving on to the discussion. I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare for the record in the discussion of the MP factions. Please hold the recording. Welcome to the statement of the People's Deputy Papiev of the faction "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u15	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! Mikhail Papiev, Political Platform for Life, Opposition Platform for Life. You know, today we're considering the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it would seem to be positive, in a good mood, that is, it refers to the most talented Ukrainian scientific youth. But in all of this, note a few details. First. Only 12 areas of Ukraine have been given, which is less than we have in Ukraine. The other one. Now I've looked at the names and what scientific institutions these scientists represent. You know, there are branches of some institutions that, frankly, in Ukraine's years of independence, I haven't even heard of these sectoral scientific institutions. And it would seem that right now we have to vote on these 30 scholarships, but at the same time, I would very much like to have, first of all, that when making these decisions, all Ukrainian citizens should be in equal conditions regardless of the territories they represent. The other one. To have, if we have in our name, that's the most talented young people to represent, those science schools that today can represent Ukraine with dignity both at European and at world level. So our faction supports the talent of young people. But in all of this, we will abstain from this vote because, for example, the region of Chernobyl is not represented in the same way as many other areas. So, dear fellows, let's take these important documents seriously, and let's all be on equal terms regardless of the territory of residence and regardless of the scientific institutions that these young scientists represent. I would very much like to have that approach for all of us. We will abstain in this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u16	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Shinkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, the Petra Dustenka Block faction, certainly supports all the initiatives that go on behalf of the Education Committee. And in our view, young scientists are the driving force that needs more than just to be supported today, and today we need to create all the conditions for their scientific development. Today, there is an issue about the Academy of Sciences, which, unfortunately, has been cut off from the real sector of the economy. Today, we all know, but there are no decisive steps to organize the work of the Academy of Sciences when the best developments appear abroad and their authors are no longer Ukrainian, I'm sorry. And in general, the budgets that our Parliament is targeting every year for the development of science, they unfortunately have no effect in the economy. For science's sake, it's unnecessary, and it's for young people. Of course, 2,000 dollars a month is like bullying. Let's speak frankly. Thirty, all in all, 30 winners, maybe you know, if it's a fair competition, if it goes, well, let's say it's the best, if it's still in Ukraine. We need to create everything so that the young scientists don't just stay to get back to those who left, hundreds of thousands of people. Therefore, friends, there is a request. The science committee is grateful, but we need to look at the amount of the scholarship as the government approaches the assignment of salaries at state-owned top management enterprises. Because top managers are paid 100,000 dollars a month, and we're criticizing it, and the young scientist is paid 2,000 dollars. Well, tell me, please, it doesn't go in any way. Therefore, the request to appreciate Ukrainian young scientists is worth it. But in general, as a trend, as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Winnick National Agrarian University, I was asked by students and teachers to support and thank, the committee in the right direction, and with our call finally came the hope that scientists, young scientists, Ukraine needed. Let's do everything we can to make them feel the state's guardianship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u18	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Eutuska. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u19	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland. Indeed, our colleagues, who are now speaking, including the chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, are clearly testifying to the need to create incentives, incentives in the form of certain monetary rewards. I agree with the previous speaker, Shinkovic, who says that the size should be worthy, which would encourage our young, scientific young people not only to stay out of our country and realize their acquisitions, knowledge in other countries, where perhaps more income. At the same time, though, to encourage the returnees to come to their mother’s home and teach their children. I know for a fact that it's not just stimulating the economy. Perhaps yes, indeed, the economic boost in general will provide an opportunity and impetus for people to return to Ukraine. But, at the same time, because of the kind of decisions that we will uphold today. I will also remind you that, your honorary colleagues, the selection committee, the selection committee is headed by our colleague Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, who works at the Committee on Science and Education. And it's strange to hear such warnings that we might be able to conduct these competitions in a transparent way. And I'll say, the competition committee also includes other colleagues who represent different factions. So if we don't trust ourselves here, then why are we even talking about these things? So the Fatherland faction will definitely support all initiatives aimed at stimulating our scientific youth. They are primarily candidates for science, a doctor of science, who is the acquisition and ownership of our country's intellectual property. And that'll give you the opportunity, either, even though a little bit of it will stop them from staying in our country, building it, teaching our young, just like they're scientists. So the "Fatherland" faction will definitely support this draft decree. He also asks all national deputies to do so by providing opportunities and incentives for scientists, young scientists, to gain, to take pride. After all, being a fellow of the Supreme Council is not only material savings and financial payments, but also a certain status, because a man, a scientist who has such status, will surely be proud of them. Please vote and support everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u20	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u21	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Oleg Laska's radical party will certainly support this bill. We are confident that we have the most talented young people in Ukraine. We're talking about not even 30 scholarships, but 3,000 scholarships. Because in order to encourage young people to stay in the country, to raise the economy of their own country, we have to show them somehow that we care. Because the poor government policy that the authorities are running today has led us to have a violent labour migration: 2 million young Ukrainians have gone abroad to work, they don't see their future here, they don't see, unfortunately, their children's future here. In order for people to stay and put their potential in this country's economy, we have to stimulate them somehow. In order to move away from the raw economy, unfortunately, which we are offered today, including our international partners, we must make sure that science develops in our country. That's why we support young scientists, we support the future of our country. What I'm saying. That the creation of conditions for young scientists to stay here is directly linked to the economic development of the country, is essential for creating conditions and for young entrepreneurs to receive credit, which unfortunately is not available for young talented people to open startups here so that they can work here and see their future. The Radical Party team has proposed an industrial reform package with industrial parks that have green energy in order to develop all these sectors, educated people are needed right here. We don't have to be an exporter of labor. working people, we don't have to be exporters of working young people. Unfortunately, this is happening now. The country needs to be radical in the matter of a state strategy for young people, as far as science is concerned, regarding economic development. And I assure you that our team will do this, the Radical Party team is set up to rebuild their own economy, their own science to keep young people here and to see the future here, in their own country, and not go abroad. That is why we will vote on this bill, we will support it, just as all initiatives involving youth, development, the future, dignity and confidence, so that our country will become stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u22	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the National Front of Bondar. Ah, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u23	Please pass the word to Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u24	Please, Taras Kremen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u25	Taras Kremen, People's Front. Dear colleagues, to talk about the relevance of this project, the Decision on Award Awards to the most gifted, the best young scientists of the 18th year, I think it would be inappropriate and inappropriate, because we understand the level of scientific research, the conditions of laboratory institutions, we are aware of the level of academic scientific institutions. At the same time, the number of bonuses is not correct, for our scientists are much more. But at the same time, I'd like to divide my performance into a few ingredients. I don't think modern science is possible without basic stimulation. And no matter how much we give a bonus to every scientist, we'll understand very well that this crumb of money to support our young people is not enough, because this issue needs to be solved in a complex way. The People's Front has always stood in the position of intellectual, investment and financial support for Ukraine's development. Not only do we have to do specific things and upgrade the new Ukrainian school, develop vocational education, university education. The second important ingredient is the social support of talented young people. Young people today can’t do science if they live in a dormitory if they think about how to feed their families. The third important element is international cooperation. Today, every young scientist faces the dilemma of either doing laboratory research or investing in the publication of articles on international scientific bases. The second important ingredient is why we should not put in place such a prize for young teachers. For the second year in a row, there's been a revolution at a school called the New Ukrainian School. We have 100 better successful teachers. We have this year's Global Teacher Prize winner, who has given Ukraine his scientific development and called him Alexander Hooke. Third. Today, a very important event took place in Ukraine, for the first time in 22 years, the Ukrainian Parliament was able to allocate funds for the modernization of the Antarctic Station "Academic Vernadian". And starting on February 1st, experts are going out there to restore, for the first time in two decades, our station, which is one of the few in the world, and it should open up to Ukrainian youth the opportunity to develop such advanced research for our humanity. So I encourage my colleagues to gradually return to the session room, to realize that our next decisions should be to expand the number of parliamentary bonuses, to increase the funding of this prize, to implement this prize according to the regional potential. And most importantly, we have to go back to the young with concrete actions. That's why Bill 9211, which we registered with colleague Igor Kotwiecki and Mikola Velichovich, about stimulating young and gifted young people, is the best solution. I call on the People's Front to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u26	Thank you. We've finished speaking from the MP factions, and now we're moving on to a discussion from the National Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare to participate in the discussion. Please hold the recording. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, since transparency has been dealt with here and so forth, and we've worked with John Grigorovitch Kirilenko, I just want some help. Look, Averkina Marina Fedorovna, PhD in Economics, professor at the National University of Ostrovna Academy. I'm sorry, this is a famous institution. Bill Victoria Victoria, a candidate for economic sciences, associate professor at the Cerkas National University of the name Bogdan Hmelnick. Bondarczuk Andri Petrovich, a candidate for technical sciences, associate professor at the Department of State University of Telecommunications. Bossiy Dmitry Alexiyovich, PhD in Technical Sciences, Professor of the Department of the Dnipropetrov National University of Rail Transport. The browser Olga Alexandrovna, Dr. Fismatnauk, the leading scientific associate of the Institute of Molecular Biology and Genetics of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and so on. Sori, there are Doctors of Fismatic Sciences, Doctors of Biological Sciences, Doctors of Historical Sciences, etc. I mean, the commission worked perfectly well. And here's a question for those areas that, unfortunately, didn't submit their candidates, didn't apply, which once again shows that there's a different level of attitude to the formation of the territorial elite in different territories. Because Ukraine, it has to form an elite not only in Kiev or Lviv, or Kharkiv, where 51 percent of the government's places of supply, and it has to form an elite everywhere in Ukraine to form a balanced development of human capital. Will we surrender to the south of Ukraine and East? Therefore, the honourable colleagues, taking advantage of the opportunity, address those areas, those heads of the district government, the heads of the arches, the rectors of the universities, the territories they did not provide. Please, we're open. On September 10th, the Voice of Ukraine announced this contest, the announced terms of this competition. Therefore, we do not accept the claims involved. And that's why I'm turning to the Environment again. Please vote. You're not voting for the committee, you're not voting for the Supreme Council, you're voting for these people who are still working in Ukraine. And it's clear that 2,000 don't solve the question, but that's the mark of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And hopefully, together with you, we're going to make a decision, and it's going to be increased to 120,000 dollars, and then we're going to return the financial status to the reward that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u28	Thank you. And I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputies of Marchenka. Please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u29	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians! Of course, it is necessary to vote for that decision. And it's a shame that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has spent so much time adopting this obvious decision, because, of course, it's better than nothing. But of course, we understand that it's just a drop in the sea, a drop in the ocean compared to what really needs to be done by the Supreme Council and all the government in Ukraine in order to really change this situation. Because today we see, unfortunately, sad realities, when millions of Ukrainians go abroad looking for work, they go there to study, including, and many of them do not plan to return to Ukraine. We understand that we are losing human resources, human potential. They include young scientists who cannot find normal working conditions in Ukraine to get a normal salary, normal conditions. They're going to other countries, and these countries are creating these conditions for them, and we can't create them. And we realize that these are really very sad prospects if we don't change this situation fundamentally because they're preparing us for the fate of a totally raw supplement. The raw materials supplement is not needed by science, and raw materials do not need many people because many people are not needed to produce raw materials and agrarian products, so enough 15-20 million for the territory that is in Ukraine. Sadly, this is the future of the oligarchy system and some foreign centers are preparing for our nation. But our task, patriots, nationalists, is to change this situation. And we realize that there's not much you can do about the slogans, the inducements, the calls. We really need to set priorities here for the development of our science, the priorities for our education. But first of all, it's going to depend on how our economy develops. If there's real deligarization, as Freedom suggests, then of course we're going to have to increase our economic performance, then we're going to have to develop whole industries, we're going to have to rebuild industry, we're going to have to rebuild scientific industries, because today is the future behind them. We have potential. Our islanders are one of the best in the world, our young scientists are one of the best in the world, and we need to use that potential, not to be a donor, a human resource provider, in other countries. It's our job. Of course, we need to vote for this decision, but we need to realize that this little thing, we need to do much more for our nation, for our young people, for our science to have a future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u30	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u31	Thank you. Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, in Switzerland around Geneva there is the world's greatest scientific achievement -- the Great Andron Collider. There is a large number of Ukrainian scientists, young ones, and not very much Ukrainian. And this is the pride of our country, this is the greatest achievement of the scientific thinking of our country, which we have delegated to the development of modern science. In order to continue to be able to delegate Ukrainians, to be proud as a Ukrainian state, as Ukrainian citizens, because among us, among the Ukrainians, there are the highest minds of this planet, we have to ensure the development of science, we have to ensure the development and support of young scientists. Today, it would seem that the Supreme Council is facing a very simple question: Let us decide to support young scientists. It would seem that it could be simpler and generally unifying. But no, we can't find votes for this again and again. Is it because someone in the session room does not want to vote for it? No, everyone here is voting. But for the electronic board, we would be here to be 334, and in fact we're not enough to make decisions by the 226 votes provided for in the Ukrainian Rules. So, dear colleagues, the issue is much more systematic, because the Ukrainian State needs laws for the Ukrainian to be passed by this Parliament, because there is simply no need for national MPs. Again and again, I'm going to go back to what electoral legislation has to be changed. This Parliament is to have responsible people working, and this Parliament is to have professional national MPs working. Today, the task force has finished its work, and there are little strokes left. The committee should immediately proceed to work on the Electoral Code and bring this law to the attention of this Parliament in order to have at least the next parliamentary call filled with MPs who will not be confronted with the issue of vote-seeking to support Ukrainian young scientists. Today, I urge you, once again, to support those colleagues who asked, to know those MPs who are not in the room right now, to invite them into the hall, to find the necessary voices of support, to do so, we have to demonstrate that Ukraine supports a Ukrainian young scientist, supports science both in Ukrainian and in the world, and we have to be proud of such a Ukrainian state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u32	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Melnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! I represent the famous Ukrainian town of Kamyanec-Podilski, Kamyanec-Podil district, the Novouszicki district of Hmelnitsk district. Not only is our city known as a tourist in Ukraine, we are known in Ukraine for our universities. It's both a university of education, and it's a university of education, education, education, and training that we need for our economy, for our nation. Today, we are under the impression that many young people, many Ukrainians, are working abroad. Yes, that's true. But we believe that these young people and our Ukrainians will return to our country, and those skills they have acquired abroad will apply to build our state. Today we can remain a fatherless state, and we can become the state we want to be. We want to be a European developed country. To do that, we need what? We need the footage. Humans are young specialists who are studying in our colleges. And we have to be honest with ourselves that our peers are giving us a decent education. Of course, 30 bonuses are not that big for our state, and 2,000 dollars a month is not that big. As I've said before, I wanted to have at least 30 people in each lineage, and that was a lot more money, because our young people are really, really smart, our young people are our future. And we want to see ourselves and our young people in the European state so that European standards can come to our home land. To that end, as national deputies, the authorities must do their utmost to make sure that young people who want to learn do something to support them materially. We need experts, we need new technologies in agriculture, in the metal industry, in many areas of our country, in agriculture. And to do that, we have to vote, make decisions to support our young people, our education. Of course, there are very few deputies in the hall today (afternoon). Perhaps this is a question that may be passed on to the next day, if possible. This is a very and very important question for our nation. And I urge all deputies to support our young people, to support our science. We work, we learn, and we do many good things together. And it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u34	Thank you. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to speak to the people's deputy Macola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u35	Good afternoon. Roman Macola, Hmelnicka district, 190 constituency. You know, I want to support all the previous speakers. Why? Because it really is a very important question that we are discussing today. But what I'm saying is, what is 30 bonuses? It's nothing, because, first of all, there's not that many of them, and second of all, I don't really care, I think, like many of us, maybe all of us, the amount is 2,000 dollars a month. Think about it, it's funny. Nothing for that big money, well, you can't get any good, you can't get any achievements -- nothing, because, well, not the amount that should really be for the incentive. In my view it would be, well at least there's a thousand 40 a month, then it would be really interesting and interesting for everyone, because there's no secret to what's going on right now. There's a program going on, like exchange of students between states. And everyone understands that they're getting better. And foreigners see who he might be. They're taking out our students, our footage, and they're leaving it there to work for that country's economy. Yeah. What do you want me to do? After all, to return face to face with our students, to our young teachers, to a really talented youth to work for the benefit of our country. And I really want to call everyone today, call your friends, your colleagues who aren't in the hall today, to really vote and make an important decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u36	Thank you. And before the closing statement from the committee, I'd like to give a word from the Self-Help faction. Please, People's Deputies, Helen Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u37	Colleagues, well, we're astronauts and we're flying far and wide in space and we're cut off from reality. I agree with the previous speaker, what is 2,000 dollars? It's, well, at best, one can buy two good books, for example, English books or, for example, let's, let's imagine maybe some extra material for themselves or publish it somewhere, or make a translation of their articles -- that's the maximum, that's nothing. 30 people, 30 scientists, we nominate for today. This is again for the whole country, where 35 million is nothing. The problem is that you and I are very well aware that we are now discussing this decision for almost an hour just because there are really no national deputies in the hall who could adopt real laws that would stop the flow of intelligence from Ukraine, that would stop our young people, who, when you come in, too unfortunately, in the halls where young people are sitting, and ask them one question, would you like to leave Ukraine, if you could, 90 percent, unfortunately raise your hand "yes." Because no real action has been done by Parliament or government today to stop this terrible trend. The wages paid by young specialists are very low. There is no incentive for small, medium-sized business. Housing credit is missing. What a young scientist today can count on, even if he's a genius, he can't even protect his invention because there's no intellectual property protection. I am already silent about the fact that there is no recognition today of the merits of young people before the state, before science, before them. And for me, all these scholarships look more like a Soviet surplus: instead of giving people real recognition, instead of giving them the opportunity to realize and promote Ukraine, to promote the economy, to promote our intellectual potential, we're sorry, we're embarrassing them with 2,000 dollars. I urge this hall to wake up at last. We have the reality that people are going, and first of all, scientists are going, they're going to have intellectual potential. If you don't start doing something, and the actual laws are passed, sitting here in the hall, working, not being anywhere, again beating out places for the future, there will be no future in this country, because there will be no major potential for it -- young people, young scientists, young intelligence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u38	Thank you. Colleagues, the speeches are over. Now there will be a closing word and a vote. And I strongly urge everyone to enter the hall. I ask the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, to see who is not there, who is not in the towers, if necessary, let them walk through the towers. In two or three minutes, we'll move on to the decision-making process. And, colleagues, I also want to tell you something important. Colleagues, please, I'm inviting everyone into the hall. Which, unfortunately, is the end of our session, and we have one debt to carry out. And I was addressed to the Conciliation Board by the chairman of the Committee on Banking, which Parliament is obliged to hear a report from the head of the National Bank, according to the Rules. We must not make any decisions, but we must listen to them. This is outside the need to put separately in the Rules. And I think after that question, since there's not much time left, we'll be able to do that and by 6 o'clock, there's Mr. Smolius, yes, in the hall, to perform the statutory function of Parliament. Because tomorrow, unfortunately, we won't have the time, we have two deductions, and tomorrow we won't be able to do that. But now we have to make decisions. I ask everyone to return to the hall. And I invite you to the closing statement of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Science and Education of Spiowakovsky Alexander Volodymirovich, two minutes. And in two minutes, colleagues, I'd like everyone to be in the workplace. Call me back, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I see that, after all, our national MPs have heard, they're watching what's going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and they're showing up. We see that the required number of votes will be. I think there'll be support. The discussion in the Hall once again showed that the National Deputies supported the Committee’s decisions on science and education, and they trusted him. And our scholarships, I've read some names to make it clear, these are candidates, doctors of science, these are people who are in development. So, dear fellows, once again, let's keep our minds together, vote. And we promise in about two or three weeks to put in order a daily bill that voted unanimously by the Committee on Science and Education, to increase, Ivan Grigorovich, to increase scholarships and increase the prizes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suit common sense. Because the scholarships are going to be about 10,000 a month, and the bonuses are going to be about 120,000 in a year. And so we can support the high status of bonuses and scholarships, the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are a parliamentary republic. This means that we should be the legislator and in shaping our attitude toward young people. Let's vote now. I am addressing once again, Mikhail Ivanovich, the Opoblak who promised not to vote, but, hopefully, he will vote because there are specific names of young people waiting for a solution to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u40	So, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall and take jobs. Colleagues, I don't want to go back to the vote, I would ask everyone to be in the workplace during the vote. I totally agree with everyone who's said there should be bigger awards, but if we don't make decisions now, there won't be any. And I promise to put an immediate bill on increasing premiums and scholarships for the most talented young scientists. But right now, we need to make this decision, so please, everyone, be in the workplace, please, everyone, concentrate in the hall. Please come in, take your jobs. We have concluded our discussion, and we can move on to making a decision. So I have no doubt that all factions support, because the support of young and young scientists is a question beyond politics, and the question of the Ukrainian state, its scientific future and its potential. And that's why I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Assignment in 2019 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Fellowships for the most talented young scientists (No. 9411) on the proposal of a committee on the basis and in general. Please vote. Please, let's support, let's support Ukrainian youth. Vote. We'll support young scientists. Every voice matters. Vote. Vote, support, colleagues. [[16:56:26]] For 218. We didn't make it. We'll be right back. Look who's gone, who's in the towers. Colleagues, someone from the towers, please invite the deputies. I'll be back in a minute. You see, we count each voice. I'm asking everyone to be on site and invite deputies from the towers. And, fellow Members, don't leave. Invite someone who's not in the hall. I'll read the factions for now. Peter Poshenko's Block – 86, People's Front – 57, Opposition Block – 4, Self-Help – 15, Radical Party – 12, Father's Party – 5, Will of the People – 3, Rebirth Party – 9, non-fractional – 27. The hall is united. Everyone votes, all they have to do is be in the workplace and make more concentration. Secretariat, ask whoever's in the towers to come into the hall. Now I'm going to put the first vote on the return. And I'm asking you to support everyone, colleagues. Everyone, please take part in the vote. So considerately and responsibly. Be in the workplace during the vote. First vote. I ask and propose to return to the 2019 Appointment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. We'll back you up, fellows! We vote, each voice is responsible, responsible. Vote. [[16:58:11]] For 229 We're back, colleagues. I beg you, be careful now. I'm putting draft Decree 9411 on the ground as a whole. We will support young scientists! Vote! We'll support you, colleagues, responsibly, carefully. Every voice, we support. Vote! Vote! Colleagues, pay attention. You see, every voice has great meaning, every voice. [[16:58:46]] For 238. It's been decided. Welcome to the committee! Welcome to all the winners of the award! And, colleagues, we only have an hour left. We could, of course, still have many important laws, but we have, according to the Rules, to implement article 240 and article 51 of the Ukrainian National Bank of Ukraine Act, on banking policy and financial activities, the Committee has requested our request to comply with and to hear a report from the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Smoli Jakov Vasilovic, on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine in 2018. It is our responsibility to carry it out. We don't have to make decisions, colleagues, it's just a hearing. But the schedule is as follows: the report is 15 minutes, the committee's report is 5 minutes, the people's deputies' question is 5 minutes, and then it's 25 minutes from all the MPs. That's the rule. And we have to go into the hour that we have left. I'm sure that's an important topic to discuss. I'm sure everyone will find it interesting to hear a professional opinion and ask questions and hear the answer. And we're going to the report, to the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Smolija Jakov Vasilovich on the activities of the National Bank for 2018. And I invite you to the rostrum of Smolius Jakov Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u41	Good afternoon, Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, colleagues! Thank you for being able to provide you today with information on the results of the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine for 2018. This is an important meeting for us because it confirms our transparency of one of the five key principles of the work of the National Bank of Ukraine. I am sure that mutual transparency will help us to work together more effectively in the coming year, and the success of our work together is progress in the development of the financial sector of Ukraine. Before I tell you about the National Bank's work in 2018, I want to highly appreciate our cooperation with you over the past year and thank you for supporting important bills for the financial sector during the last season. 2018 marked the restoration of macrofinancial stability, which Ukraine last saw before the annexation of Crimea and the military conflict at Donbasa. This year, the Ukrainian economy has shown maximum growth in the last seven years. Real GDP growth is estimated to be 2.8 percent. 3.8 percent, and according to the NBA overall forecast, the economy will increase by 3.4 percent year-on-year. The year’s inflation recovered, and for the first time in five years it decreased to a single level of 9.8 percent. This exceeded our inflation target, which was 6 plus minus 2 percent. According to the year, consumer inflation was higher, but in inflation policy the key is not getting the necessary inflation rate at a certain point in time, but ensuring a stable trend in this indicator according to inflation goals. Let's say that in 2017 the consumer price index was above 13 percent. So in our view, ensuring that this indicator is lowered is an important gain in our monetary policy. Today we can confidently talk about reducing the fundamental pressure on the Ukrainian economy, creating more comfortable business conditions and creating savings of the population, the gradual approximation of inflation to the national bank's mid-term point of 5 percent plus minus 1. Yes, indeed, given the increase in inflation risks over the past year, we have raised the total cost by 3.5 percentage points to the current 18-year-olds 4 times. The introduction by the National Bank of Ukraine of monetary policy takes place in close cooperation with the National Bank Council, which, according to our law, approves and supervises the basic principles of monetary policy of the National Bank of Ukraine for a year. We value our cooperation with this body, which consists of the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. This led to an increase in interest rates on deposits and thus provided incentives to increase savings. This had an impact on accessibility and lending. However, let me go back to this question in my report a little later. In addition, due to the tight monetary policy and the favourable price environment for Ukrainian exports to foreign markets in the first half of the year and the record crop of grains in the second half of the year, the level of the fines has increased by 1.4 percent in 2018. This is a sign of stability in the currency market. At the same time, Ukrainians already trust the National Bank’s ability to smooth out excessive fluctuations. Testimony to this is the lack of significant panic in the currency market, even after events near the Kerchen Strait and the introduction of the military state. We actively highlighted the situation in the currency market and kept an active presence on it, thus warning the panic of market participants and the population. The strengthening of the bracelet has enabled the National Bank to actively replenish international reserves over the year by purchasing currencies in the interbank market. Over the year, the balance of our foreign exchange interventions amounted to $1.4 billion, which was directed towards our reserves. External funding was another source. Ukraine has received a new programme of cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, which is the basis for further strengthening macroeconomic stability. As a result, reserves from international partners, IMF, the European Union, and the World Bank accounted for $2.4 billion. In total, we have the largest international reserves in five years. That's $20.8 billion. This is the last figure we saw in the fall of 2013. As for banking supervision and banking systems. During 2018, we have essentially redesigned our future function. So we put in place appropriate world standards of risk-oriented approaches to overseeing banks. Then the process of evaluating banks became continuous and carried out simultaneously for all banks. The results of the evaluation determine a strategy based on a set of factors for the supervision of each individual bank. Another innovation last year was the annual assessment of bank stability, which consists of asset quality assessment and stress testing for the largest banks. Such procedures are established by the world’s leading regulators, allowing them to prevent excessive accumulation of systemic risks and prepare banks for possible future crises. The previous steps were the basis of a macroprudential policy strategy approved by the National Bank last year. This document determines what and how the National Bank will do to ensure, in accordance with our mandate, the financial stability required for sustained economic development. Last year, as part of the transition to international standards for banks based on Basel II, the National Bank launched the first macro-prudential tool, the mandatory LCR rule. Equally important last year was the introduction of new standards for risk management. The relevant document provides for more involvement of the Bank's Board in its supervisory function before creating a working risk management infrastructure and monitoring the general principles of risk management. The situation is a list of key risks that the bank must carry out detection, measurement, monitoring, control and reporting. In December 2018, we approved a new position on licensing banks. This is the principle of a new document whose main task is to move from a formalistic to a risk-oriented approach to licensing of banks and to provide regulators with tools for substantive analysis in the implementation of conciliation procedures. The National Bank's credit register worked. Since September 1, the National Bank has provided banks with an opportunity to obtain information from the credit register regarding debtors, credit operations, and such transactions as the debtor class. This will allow banks to more comprehensively assess the risks of the borrower and, as a result, to feel more confident about providing credit services. In summary, the banking sector has shown good results. Today, 77 banks are operating in Ukraine, including 4 state - owned banks and 22 foreign - capital banks. The banking system is not only stable, recapitalized and transparent, but also profitable for the first time in five years. People’s confidence in the banking system is being strengthened, and the population has increased their gross deposits by 15 percent per year. Banks are finally stepping up credit. In a year, they increased the population’s gross credits by 31 percent. This indicator is quite eloquent about these things about the impact of the monetary policy of the National Bank on the extent of bank lending. To date, it is possible to talk about recovery and the full extent of corporate lending. I agree that the average interest on loans is high. But what I'm saying is that they dictate not only the size of our account rate, but also the risks of the environment that banks place in this number. During 2018, the National Bank of Ukraine continued to reorganize and increase its operational efficiency. We have presented a medium-term strategy for the development of the National Bank. In 2018 we moved on. We went through a background check on the accounting room that confirmed the NBA's performance standards. I'm going to say that in 2018 we counted our income of 44.6 billion dollars in the previous year into the state budget. The profit of the NBA for 2017 was listed in a series of tranches according to a schedule agreed with the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance. The tranq costing mechanism is called for to mitigate the impact, change in the amount of government funds to fluctuate the liquidity of the banking system, and corresponding to inflation dynamics. The income of the National Bank for 2018 will be recalculated to the national budget in the same way, after confirmation of the corresponding amount, the independent international auditor and the receipt of appropriate agreement from the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine. To sum up the results of the year, I will say that we will continue to work to ensure price and financial stability as a foundation for sustained economic growth. However, the summation for us is not only a reason to celebrate the difficult work done, but also an opportunity to better understand our challenges and our challenges for the future. We're starting 2019 with long-awaited monetary liberalisation. As of February 7, the currency and currency transactions law you supported will be put into effect and the corresponding regulations of the National Bank will be introduced with it. The new regime for currency transactions will become much easier for citizens and businesses. We will continue to bring it closer to our common goal of freedom of movement of capital. However, as we have consistently said, the promotion of the road map of liberalisation is possible only by maintaining appropriate macroeconomic premeditations. The introduction in Ukraine of the economic cooperation and the development of a plan of action to prevent tax evasion, the so-called BEPS project, will help the free movement of capital. The relevant bill will be submitted for your consideration in the near future. The current year should be dedicated to the next important step, without which financial stability is not only within the banking sector but also within the financial system. It's about a split, which is the future of the non-bank financial sector. The Supreme Council's adoption of the "float" bill has become one of the structural beacons of Ukraine's new cooperation programme with the International Monetary Fund as a premeditated strengthening of the financial sector, as this will allow the non-banking financial market to be brought into line with European standards, increase financial companies and protect consumers of finance, and create the conditions for new foreign players to enter the market. Another priority of the National Bank for 2019 is the restoration of credit. Despite progress with some segments over the past two years, banks are not yet fully operational, especially with large corporate lenders and mortgage loans for the population. We realize that a higher level of non-performing loans is a hindrance to the more active restoration of credit. A way to solve this problem, supported by the market, is to create a legal field for debt management companies. Designed in cooperation with the EBRD, the draft relevant law can ensure the creation of a proper competitive environment in the second credit market in Ukraine and thus lead to a rapid reduction of the problem portfolios of banks. I will also repeat that high loan rates are still present and significant risks to the institutional environment, including the failure of judicial reform to ensure that creditors' rights are respected and respected. Banks put these risks at a interest rate. That's why. The loan needs to work in this vector too. Finally, I would like to point out that in the coming year, the need for our cooperation is more important than ever for the effective development of the financial sector. I support the National Bank's acceptance of the principle of transparency. We will continue to develop space for dialogue and count on a fruitful dialogue with parliament in the future. I want to invite us with you to a mutually beneficial, effective work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u42	Thank you. Jacob Vasilovich, stay in the rostrum. The questions will now be from the national deputies. Colleagues, so now who intends to question Smolia Jacob Vasilovich, please record. Ten minutes is going to be a minute of questions and answers. So, who's going to ask the question, please hold the record, please. Controversy Ivan Dmitrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u43	Ivan Sporish. Please pass the word to Gregory Sverke.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u44	Thank you very much. In a few words, I would like to pay great respect to Jacob Vasilovich personally from the National Bank of Ukraine for, in my view, being one of the few institutions in our country that really works and works effectively and works well. Have you seen in other institutions, for example, a tract called "The Strategy of the National Bank of Ukraine"? I would very much like every institution in our country to have such a strategy and to carry it out in a good way. As for the question, Jacob Vasilovich, when is the next step in monetary liberalisation after what has already been done in February?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u45	Please, Jacob Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u46	Thank you. On February 7th, the Money and Monetary Transactions Act enters into force. In addition, in exchange for the 59 legal acts of the National Bank, which have acted in support of the 1993 Monetary Regulation Decree, the National Bank has developed 7 legal acts, new regulations that have been published on our website, signed and agreed, and will enter into force in conjunction with the Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act of February 7, 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u48	Good afternoon. I have a very simple question. How does the Head of Nazbank assess the inflation potential for 2019? So for the first time in five years, we've come up with, well, almost nine and a half percent. More or less, what do you think is the state of today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u49	We have an inflation forecast. We have an inflation goal of 5 plus minus 1 percent per year. And this year we see a trend, and it's really confirmed, it's changed from 13 percent in 2017 to 9.8 by the end of 2018. This year we predict that inflation should be at least 7 percent by the end of the year, 6.9 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u50	Thank you. One Ostap Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u51	Dear Mr. Head of the National Bank, I have two questions about short, actually, monetary liberalisation. Those draft regulatory documents that the National Bank submitted to implement the Monetary Act that we passed last year, experts estimate as being too conservative, and the currency market is still not sufficiently liberalized. And are you planning the next steps from liberalisation to less conservative? And the second question. Still, is there going to be a change in the account, or is it actually a decrease in the National Bank's account rate? Because 18 percent is very expensive for the economy, it's very expensive for business, and even though it's holding back inflation, it's also holding back substantial economic activity and economic growth in Ukraine. Please comment on whether the National Bank plans to review the bill in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u52	Thank you for asking. Regarding the further steps of liberalisation. As stated in my report, apart from the Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act for the full liberalisation regime, the full regime of free movement of capital is not sufficient by law itself, because there are a number of restrictions that this law does not regulate. So today we need to adopt a series of bills that I was talking about, this is the so-called BEPS package as one of those that will let us see where we have assets abroad, avoidance of tax evasion, transfer of capital into jurisdiction with a smaller tax regime. And we're also planning to present a road map to remove the restrictions that are currently in force in spite of the Monetary and Monetary Transactions Act, and it's going to be published on our website and communicated. As far as the bill is concerned, how we planned for 2019.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u53	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u54	Thank you. We have a monetary committee meeting and the first session will take place in January. Of course, the current accounting rate is 18 percent too high, but depending on how the impact will be assessed: the macroeconomic situation, the external factors, the internal factors, the National Bank may decide to mitigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u55	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Usova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u56	Constantine Usov, 33 constituency, the city of Curve Rig. I think we can generally thank and take to heart the report of the Head of the National Bank of Smolia. We can say that both the nature of the regulator's own function and the nature of its interaction with Parliament in. and it shows some positive dynamics. We're supposed to give due to jointly worked and adopted laws, including currency and currency transactions, to normative acts that launch a credit register. You can also positively mark a controlled low inflation that's kept within a definite number. The national currency exchange rate is also maintained, as noted in spite of political turbulence, and has been maintained even during the declaration of martial law in connection with an increase in the level of threat by the Russian Federation. In doing so, I would like to continue with the previous question asked by colleagues, the accounting rate of lending is really extremely high and, in my opinion, very high.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u57	Please, please. I'm sorry, please, 10 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u58	Dear Sir, you did not very clearly answer the question, What is the strategy for lowering the monetary interest on credit? Decrypt, give me a more detailed answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u59	Thank you for asking. I'll make it clear. The change in the interest rate will depend on a series of macroeconomic indicators, both on the external market and on the internal market. Today, there is a tendency and there is good reason to review and soften our monetary policy. Such a decision will be made on a monetary committee, discussed on a monetary committee, and taken by the National Bank. Let us hope that this trend, which has been in the past few years, has reached its peak and will find a downward trend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u60	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ostrikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u61	Good afternoon. Of course, slowing down inflation is a measure of success for the National Bank, but it was achieved in 2018 solely because of the tight monetary policy of the National Bank and the setting of a surplus. This is the rate at which Nazbank lends money to banks, which is 18 percent, when in the US is 2.5, in Poland is 1.5, in Moldova is 6.5 and even in Russia is 7.75, in Ukraine is 18. And that's why the banking sector can't restore available loans. And what you're saying is that it seems to be hampered by uninterrupted judicial reform is the best verdict voted by a parliamentary majority, by a coalition of amendments to the 5 codes, and by laws on the judiciary and the status of judges. And the second question. Please tell me what prevents you from entering parliament and adopting an anti-offshore package of laws? And how many baskets were taken off in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u62	I'd like you to clarify the first question about inflation, Tetyano, because it's not clear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u63	Please state your questions for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u64	The question of inflation was when will hard monetary policy stop in order to restore quality and affordable lending to the corporate sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u65	The hard monetary policy was linked to the fact that in the 14th year, in the 15th year, inflation was above 47 percent. The National Bank owns one of the tools is an account rate. And hard monetary policy is short-term to curb inflation. We hope that we have achieved this success by lowering inflation to a sign level at the end of last year. The next step, as I said, is the question of restoring credit. And we're going to do everything we can to make this sector fully operational.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u66	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u67	Thank you, Your Honor, Jacob Vasilovich. Joseph. I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that today, the report of the National Bank and the Head of the National Bank is being heard in the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- that's positive, we should welcome the courage of the head as opposed to the predecessor. But the fact that there are few Ukrainian national deputies present today is a matter for the Supreme Council. And today, I would very much like to support those Ukrainian national MPs who have asked the questions both by inflation and by the bookcase. But I have another question, based on these appeals by citizens and economic subjects of Ukraine to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. We don't have any claims today, you have enough authority not to say about your environment. Tell me, please, maybe you don't have enough authority to get the order in order to get the environment around you to perform the functions laid down by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u68	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u69	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the National Bank team is being formed, and management is being appointed and relieved on the basis of the National Bank Act, as are the members of the National Bank Board. The criteria for candidates and members of government are laid down in the National Bank Act. In this regard, I believe that the team that works at the National Bank today is professional enough and capable of carrying out the tasks that lie ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for your statement and for the answers. You can take your place in the hall, and we'll move on to the presentation of the committee. Please, National Deputy Doubenko of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, on January 16, this year, a report by Mr. Smolius, Head of the National Bank, was considered by the Committee on Banking and Financial Policy. During the discussion, which was fairly professional and constructive and business-oriented, a number of important issues, unresolved issues, and perspectives that should be considered in 2019 were covered by the National Bank. I would like in my brief information, because the rule of procedure is to focus on three blocks of issues that we think are quite important on the committee. We have noted in the committee that there are some positive trends in the activities of the National Bank. We believe that communication with the Supreme Council and government has improved significantly, allowing for a number of important positive decisions last year, including the laws of Ukraine. And among them is the Money and Monetary Transactions Act, the operation of the credit register, the Nominal Restraint Act, the Creditor Rights Act and a number of other laws. The introduction of these laws, we believe, has already had some positive impact on the banking system. The banking system has become more recapitalized. Bank bankruptcies were reduced, financial stability and their customers stabilized. We think Natzbank's work has become more transparent. There's regular information about the state of the banks, all the regulations, well, and the relevant actions of the National Bank. Some positive things were also said by Mr. Smolli in his report, and I will not repeat myself. The second cluster of issues that concerned committee members is the contradictions that unfortunately remained in the activities of the National Bank. First of all, we've noted that there's actually a drop in inflation by the previous year from 13.7 in 2017 to 9.8 in 2018. At the same time, we think that 9.8 is a significant overrun of the target lighthouse that was taken as a result of inflationary lending by the National Bank, namely: 6 percent plus minus 2 percent deviation. And again today, and even in the session room, there was a question about the bill. Yes, there is no doubt that the high rate of interest has stimulated the savings of citizens, and the savings of Ukrainians in deposits, including 15 percent, and 6 percent of the deposits of enterprises have increased. At the same time, we believe that such a high billing rate has led to credit rates in banks rising to 21-23 percent, which we think is unacceptable from the point of view that our businesses and businesses are becoming uncompetitive from, as it was called, business even in Poland and some other countries that are close to us in their business operations. We want to say that the contradiction associated with what Nazbank believes its actions have resulted in some restoration of function means lending. And so we think that 11 percent of the growth in corporate lending is actually a good indicator. At the same time, we want to say that everything is just as complex an indicator that works in the banking systems of different countries as the ratio of the credit portfolio to the GDP of the country, it's jumping up and today it's only one third of GDP, which is very not enough to make our country's economy better. We believe that the National Bank should focus immediately for the current year in order to boost lending. We think it's a very serious credit-enhancing brake -- it's a job with a problem of debt in commercial banks. All these things were expressed to the Head of the National Bank. We've taken note of the report, and we think that the cooperation that we have today will give us the opportunity to further increase the impact on the positive things that exist in the activities of the National Bank and commercial banks in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u72	Thank you. We're moving on to the discussion. I'm asking the National Deputies to participate in the record for discussion by the MPs. Please hold the recording. Thank you. I invite you to speak to the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block." People's Deputy Dovbenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, at our faction's meeting in various respects, there were a number of issues that concern the members of our faction in the work of the National Bank. Well, most of the time, as we said on the committee, there's a lot of rapid lending in our country, and the following year, 2019 and 2020, our country needs to pay off or not the biggest debt, means both corporate lenders and international financial institutions. We believe that if we are to meet our commitments, which in due time — loans — we need not only to recredit ourselves in international financial markets but first to think about GDP growth, because only by increasing GDP can we increase the potential to repay the debt that our country has. And we think that there's still some serious work to be done here, and because in our country, the recent statistics earlier this week said, 25 percent of citizens live below the poverty line, one third live below the subsistence minimum. And in order for us to increase the welfare of citizens, of course, we need to revive economic activity. And here's the first violin, in our opinion, of the deputies in the Peter Prashenko faction, is, of course, the National Bank. And once again, we realize that the big brake in lending the economy is the problem of debt. We think that the idea that some National Bank experts are proposing, namely the introduction and consideration of a debt management bill, is insufficient because we don't think that there is monopolies in the secondary debt market today. We believe that banks need to be able to assess this problem of debt through market mechanisms and to enable banks to implement it. Here we feel that we need to work on the bill on sequentialization. And we don't think that without a back-bank we're going to be able to solve this huge amount of problem debt that is now 56 percent. This is not the highest score in all countries of the world. And we think that this kind of professional approach is going to be an opportunity to solve this debt problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u74	Thank you. I invite you to speak with the Radical Party of People's Deputies of Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u75	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Jacob Vasilovich, may I have your attention? First of all, I want to thank you for speaking out here today with a report, according to the law, and for the form, we have a qualitatively different communication with the National Bank. Because the previous leadership was completely removed from communication with the MPs. As to the content of the policy pursued by the National Bank. We have studied 111 pages of the International Monetary Fund report very carefully in the Radical Party, including a memorandum from the IMF signed by the President of Ukraine, you, the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance. It does not make sense of the commitments that Ukraine has made. There are two key priorities: the hard monetary policy that you just talked about from this rostrum. That means expensive loans, that means lowering the financial depth of the economy. Where can it be reduced? Mr. Doubenko, head of the profile committee, was just speaking. He was absolutely right: less than 40 percent of the loan ratio to GDP. And in order for economic growth and modernisation to happen, it takes more than 100 percent to have loans to GDP, the financial depth. So it's definitely unacceptable. The second priority is to limit domestic demand. I'm going to translate into plain language -- the restrictions on citizens' incomes. This is definitely unacceptable. Moreover, in your presentation, the presentations of the Nazbank Action Programme for the 19th year stressed that rising wages in the context of emigration is one of the risks and one of the constraints on economic growth. We are on the Radical Party team, on the other hand, convinced that the increase in Ukrainian wages is the primary basis for restoring Ukrainian industry, economics and social justice. What's more, the policy of the National Bank that you're conducting is essentially under the dictates of the International Monetary Fund, because, let's not hide that the memorandum contains the daily report of Nazbank to the International Monetary Fund. Maybe you've got IMF coworkers there, maybe you've got Nazbank working? According to this memorandum, in fact, the main goal is inflationary targeting, suffocating the economy, suffocating the industry. We, the Radical Party team, propose to change the goals of the National Bank. We've made appropriate changes to the Constitution of Ukraine to make the Nazbank goals of the US Federal Reserve System, the US Central Bank, that's right. The first is financial stability, the second is affordable loans, the third is economic growth and the fourth is unemployment. These are the national priorities that monetary authorities and governments should be working on. Not what's happening now under the IMF's dictatorship. It is poverty, shame, and external governance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u76	Thank you. I invite you to the words of the People's Deputy Yegor Sobolev from the faction of Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u77	We welcome the strengthening of the currency exchange rate, we welcome the increasing trust that people have in banks, we welcome the increases in loans that banks have begun to issue to businesses. But we want to draw attention to the Head of the National Bank that if the Central Bank is not active in solving the three problems that have led to huge shocks, shocks in the banking system, in the currency market in the past, there is a great danger that these shocks will happen again. We want you to be more involved in financial control. We have made very good and strong legislation to open up to officials, politicians, people who serve in society, information about their assets to society. But I think the National Bank should take a much more active position in financial control through banks. Today, hundreds of prosecutors, judges, politicians have huge assets, large operations without any explanation of where they took the money. One problem is that they don't report to the anti-corruption agency, but the National Bank, commercial banks have to be a place where corruption can't come and operate easily. This is the first task for the NBA. The second related task is offshore. Unfortunately, you didn't say how much money was spent last year from the Ukrainian economy. And we would like a stronger position of the central bank in solving this problem. Clearly, it can't be solved only by methods of punishment and only by methods of financial control, but you can do a lot to make it impossible for the same oligarchic companies that are most abused by this legislation. And the third important task for the National Bank is Russia's presence in the banking sphere. We welcome the fact that it's shrinking, but we still insist that the very presence of Russian banks, the more state-owned Russian banks, is a threat to Ukraine, just like Russia's presence in the economy and, frankly, in Ukrainian politics. All that is Russian for Putin is a hybrid war instrument for Ukraine. The sooner we get rid of the Russian banks, the more reliable the Ukrainian banking system will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u78	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, Ivanchuk Andri Volodymyrovich is invited. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u79	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national deputies, dear Jacob Vasilovich! The People's Front is pleased. After we voted in March for your election as Head of the National Bank, I have the impression that the holy houses have flown over, and the course is stable, there are no more of these sharp shifts, and the real economy is talking about the recovery of the quiet, not the way we want it to be, credit. Thank you so much for that. And what you've come up with is with respect to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, too, the People's Front thinks it's a positive change in the relationship between the Supreme Council and the National Bank. But we have a election year ahead of us. And your personal, I've known you a long time since the year 98, since the bank "Aval." But this is an extraordinary responsibility on your shoulders today -- to ensure the stability of the national currency in the electoral year when two electoral campaigns go. You must do everything possible and impossible. Of course, I want the bracelet to grow stronger, but, God forbid, you know, so that it doesn't get worse to ensure stability. And please pay particular attention to the protection of investors' interests, because what happens in the currency market, it scares investors away from our country, it frightens even Ukrainians themselves into investing in Ukrainian businesses. So I think there should be liberalized monetary legislation this year. And I know you already have all these steps planned, they're on the site of the position you've developed. That's all we are. It's good to see it all. But this must be brought to an end. And that's why we wish you success. The Supreme Council has always supported all your legislative initiatives. Last year we passed a lot of laws in common with the National Bank, with the International Monetary Fund. So I think we need to ensure this stability, and you have the strength, and the strength in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u80	Thank you. So the fractional reports have been completed. All the factions came out. And the final chapter of listening and reviewing the report is the speeches by the national MPs. 15 minutes. Do we have time? Yeah, okay. 15 minutes is a performance by the national MPs. Please hold the recording. We must act according to all the rules of procedure. And I'm asking you to record a performance by the National MPs. Please. The wife of Valeria Leonidina. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u81	Good afternoon, dear ones, Jacob Vasilovich! Well, first of all, I also want to say that it's very good that there's cooperation today from the National Bank with a profile committee that in time the Head of the National Bank comes with information to the Supreme Council with a report on his activities. But there are many other problems in the National Bank and a bunch of bills that we need to consider. I believe that the National Bank, along with the Supreme Council and the Committee of Profiles, must do everything possible to get us to vote on these laws in the near future. But there are some questions that I would like to ask you, too, Jacob Vasilovich. This is, first of all, the bill rate, we think it's necessary for the National Bank to do everything it can to make sure it doesn't go up, but it's done down below. And secondly, it's affordable lending, what we talked about yesterday, the real economy. Unfortunately, today the percentages that are neither business nor people can take, and our producers, which are left with them, unfortunately, cannot be competitive and competitive. And the position of the Radical Party faction that only through its own production, only through our own economy can we pay people their wages, pay taxes and raise the standard of living of every Ukrainian. So I think today the National Bank and the government must do everything they can to keep the IMF from doing it. To freeze the economy so that it doesn't fall on its knees, but it doesn't go up, but to do everything to make sure that we have a significant increase in GDP, there is a significant increase in living standards. And we can only do that when we start our own production and our own economy. I mean, I would like, Jacob Vasilovich, to address you again and point out that, unfortunately, there is no plan in the country today in which the National Bank would participate, in which a government would take part, in which the Supreme Council would take part, in order to make a substantial improvement and increase the GDP of our country and thereby raise the standard of living of every Ukrainian. Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich. And I hope we're not just saying that. Not only will you take into account, but we will really do everything we can to raise the standard of living at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u82	Thank you. Gerasim gives the word for Saul’s speech. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u83	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. I have a partial presentation that connects with the question to the Head of the National Bank. I'll ask him to comment on my speech. I want to remind you that Ukraine survived a few years ago one of the biggest banking crises. Some analysts estimate that the banking crisis was one of the most difficult in Europe. I want to remind you that as a result of this banking crisis, several banks have been nationalized by the Ukrainian State. What was the underlying cause of the crisis? This is what bank owners, mostly Ukrainian oligarchs, have taken deposits from people, and these deposits have been directed towards lending their own businesses, which are now thriving. And I want to say that, despite this, the businesses that have been credited on the basis of the deposits of ordinary Ukrainian citizens, the costs that have been reimbursed to Ukrainian citizens at the expense of taxpayers, these businesses are successfully continuing to work in Ukraine today. In addition, Mr. Jacob, I would like to remind you that a lot of the refinancing that the National Bank of Ukraine has provided for the financing of commercial banks, including those that have subsequently become state-owned, has been provided under specific guarantees by specific owners of banks. And so in this part of my statement, I'd like to get an answer to the question: what has the National Bank done recently in the area of the return of those assets that have been held by the owners of the banks when they receive the refund? How many of these assets have already been recovered by the National Bank of Ukraine, and what are the specific assets of the National Bank for its previous owners, with a view to their return to state ownership of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u84	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. But I remind you, now, not the question, but the statement. But I will give the floor to the Head of the National Bank, if he has time, I think he will comment on your question in the speeches. I now invite you to the floor of Berezu Borislav Yuhimovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u85	I want to address not those present in the room right now, 85 people, 85 deputies. Just three heads of faction, all of it. But they can joke now. When they meet you, my Ukrainians, I want to say that they will tell you about how they care about you. There's the head of Nazbank in the hall. And instead of asking him if we're ready for the crisis that the world is about to face, whether we're going to have a default, or whether we're going to have a default, what's going on with the pledges, what's going on with the repayments, there's almost no people in the session room right now. Is that respect for the Ukrainians? I'm not sure. Is this respect for those who have come to us today? Not by a hundred percent. But everyone who is not in the room now has the opportunity to ask or express their position. Others may be busy with something else. What do I want to say now? I understand that we've had a very big election process. We have presidential elections first, then elections to the Supreme Council. We see that almost the next year, no one really wants to work as a lawmaker. Someone wants to get a pear component that wants some kind of financial component, someone else. And for the state, who will fight? And I'm asking, is the war over with us? Maybe we're out of something else. Or is it someone who's going to shout even louder? You can sound, you'd better work as you sound. That's why I want to go to the Ukrainians. When those who are not in the hall today or who are not in the hall tomorrow come and tell you how well they work for you, ask them where they are now, why they do not attend each session, why you do not see them on Friday, why they do not work. Because when they say they care about you, it's blasphemy. Everyone has to carry out their duties: the Head of the Nutzbank – to do his job, the MP – to do the legislative work, and the President – to rule the country, not to talk. Unfortunately, we see something different. So, Mr. Head, I want you to see now, I don't want to say that there are the most responsible deputies here, but it's probably those who really want to do something. Not even me. I'm sure we'll see much less tomorrow on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u86	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned, colleagues, I'll tell you and answer. First of all, the last time our delegation was in the Norwegian Parliament and there was a government hearing, there were two deputies, two deputies: from the opposition and from the coalition. I'm talking about it. Yes, by the way, there are factions and self-help and Peter Prashenko's Block and the People's Front, but I think every time we try to put a black stain on the work of the Ukrainian Parliament and we think there's a bad Parliament and someone in white, we do a bad service to the entire Ukrainian Parliament. I'm going to ask, in answer, would it be correct if every time you're not in the hall, I'm going to report publicly? [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right. Let's make a deal, every time you're not in the hall, I'm going to make a public announcement that there's no room for you to report to the voters. [[B in m in s a l in]] The one who makes the warning that MPs don't go to the session. There's a hearing coming up, a hearing. I stressed before the hearing began that it did not provide for a vote. Who is interested, who wants a more thorough answer, is in the room, and he has both the right to perform his control function and the right to ask that question. And I'd like us to speak on the subject that we're talking about, and we'll discuss this professionally and systematically. Spore John gives Barney a word. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u87	Praise Jesus Christ! The apparent achievements of the banking sector in Ukraine in recent years have been evident, the decline in inflation by almost 40 percent, the accumulation of gold stocks to 20 billion, the increase in the number of investors, the stabilization of the borders during the war, and even during the risk of aggression by Russia's external attack on Ukraine. These are the factors that have made it clear that investors continue to invest money in our economy, that they come and are not afraid to lose their resources. Banks are the key to economic development, and they are called the blood of economic growth. But at the same time, we need to understand that the stability of the economy is determined only when it is independent of the political situation. And the stability of the economy and the independence of the political situation are not big business, but small and medium. That is why we ask and appeal to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Jacob Vasilovich. James Vasilovich, welcome you from your homeland and from our common thermal field. But at the same time, we ask you, together with the government, to develop a credit strategy, primarily small farming, small business, because this is the driving force behind rural development, the Ukrainian village, which is the cradle of all of Ukraine. We wish you further strength and victory. And we hope that in the near future, and perhaps even this year, we will have substantial indicators of cooperation, close cooperation between banks and our citizens who are doing business, namely the development of small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u88	Thank you. And, colleagues, a closing statement from the national MPs. Marcenko Alexander gives the floor to Andrew Illenck, then the closing statement of the Head of the National Bank, and we will conclude the discussion. Please, Mr. Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u89	Andrew Illenko, All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, city of Kiev. Dear Ukrainians, it's a good thing that there's an opportunity in Parliament to listen to the head of the National Bank, because in fact there's a lot of issues, and these are, first of all, the Ukrainians who see the situation with our national currency, who see the situation with our banking system, which is unfortunately very disappointing. But at the same time, I have very specific questions about the leadership of the National Bank. A recent world - famous economic publication, The Economist, found that Ukrainian bracelets are one of the world’s most undervalued currencies. The issue published an annual rating of Big Mac's index, an international rating that compared the purchasing power of Big Mac's currency. According to The Economist, the value of the bracelet is underestimated by 65 percent, and the actual rate of purchasing power should be 9.68 bracelets per dollar. Now, I'm not going to say that it's 100 percent objective information there, maybe there's a discussion of how much this number can fluctuate, but it's still international and authoritative research, authoritative international ratings that show that our bracelet is very much undervalued. And so I see that the reason for this underestimation lies first of all in the oligartic structure of our state's economy. Because oligarchs, who are, among other things, major exporters, have a rather underestimated national currency, because this way they get an income, they can then transfer their currency output very conveniently in this ratio to the national currency. And I would also like to point out that this is certainly a convenient thing for today’s authorities. Because in this way, they can very often in this class mimic some improvements in social standards, simulate increases in minimum wages, increases in pay and so forth. Because that's how you can talk about, you see, they're getting better, they're getting higher. But at the same time, the real purchasing power is going to be very small because of their underestimation. So this is the main question -- the question of what happens to our national currency, the question of what will the National Bank do to bring this situation into line with the real state of things? And is it not an oligarchic conspiracy against the Ukrainian economy and against Ukrainian citizens who are suffering from it? Because that's what the National Bank should do, the stability of the national currency is the first priority of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u90	Thank you, colleagues. I'm continuing the session until the end. Now I've got two minutes of closing my word to the Head of the National Bank, Smolija Yakov Vasilovich. And that will be the end of the debate. Are you out of your seat, please? Out of the way. Turn on the microphone, two minutes of closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u91	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Thank you for the comments and presentations made today from the Supreme Council’s rostrum regarding the activities of the National Bank. I want to assure you that we will continue to remain transparent and accountable to the Supreme Council, as provided for by the National Bank Act. We are ready to answer the kind questions that are raised by the national deputies today. In the absence of time, I am not prepared to say in detail today and to comment on the questions that have been asked. Some of these are ready for me, some need further study. I'd be happy to answer your calls if they come to the National Bank walls. I thank you for your cooperation and I hope that this year's cooperation with the people's deputies, with the National Bank, with our committee will continue in closer cooperation so that we can jointly develop and adopt a set of bills that the financial sector needs today, our economy, so that the issues that cause us the dissatisfaction that we have today can decide together and come to a common goal. Thanks for the job. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-17-m1.u92	Thank you, Jacob Vasilovich, for your professional discussion. And, honourable colleagues, a review of the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Smolija Jakov Vasilovich on the activities of the National Bank of Ukraine for 2018 has been completed. The report is well - known. Colleagues, I want to read the announcement that came to the fore. In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and according to the minutes of the meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Political Party of the People's Front of January 17, 19th, I report that there has been an exception to the so-called MP's faction of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yuri Volodymirovic. Colleagues, time for work is up. We supported the Ukrainian youth today, performed the parliamentary control function and reviewed the report of the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine Smolija Jakov Vasilovich. It's time to end the evening session. Tomorrow, 10 a.m., I'm waiting for everyone in the hall. I'd like to point out that tomorrow we're going to have a session closed after all the questions have been completed. And, dear colleagues, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. It was historic, and today we have passed enormous laws, with which I welcome everyone. And I'll see you tomorrow. Happy birthday.
