ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Good morning, everyone! So, are you ready to register? Please come into the hall. So I'd like you to run the registration. [[10:02:15]] 357 national deputies registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I want to report that there have been two factions in the Presidium -- the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front. They're ready to replace the real break for the bellhop. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Maxim Burbak People's Front faction. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u2	Dear people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! We all know that Parliament of the Eighth Assembly is the first Parliament to have a pro-Western and pro-European constitutional majority. This Parliament has done much to entangle in the Constitution of Ukraine the irreversibility of membership of NATO and the EU in order to eliminate the Soviet heritage forever. We are here every day fighting for Ukrainian language, for Ukrainian identity, for the right to be free Ukrainians in democratic Ukraine. We have launched unprecedented reforms in the country, but our enemies have been dreaming of rematch all this time. Their Cossacks are also present here in the hall. Yesterday one of them said he would try to scribble 150 signatures of the National MPs for withdrawing Andriy Parubia from the post of Head of the Ukrainian Parliament. We know who does it and whose direction it is. And we know that the real plan is to send the Supreme Council to the next election in six months. Paratrooper Medvedchuk Portnov gives from Vienna instructions to destabilize the Supreme Council of Ukraine to push the country into a collapse. The pitiful fugitives and traitors, along with Yanukovic, decided by some miracle that the outcome of the presidential election was their victory. Hey, don't fool yourself and be cool! Ukraine is monolithic in its desires and in its patriotic zeal. Ukrainians are good at everything. There won't be a rematch! And that certainly guarantees you the faction of the People's Front and the Peter Dusty Block. The Supreme Council will go to the October elections, as provided for by the Constitution. I repeat to everyone who hasn't heard: the election. Any attempt to dissolve Parliament at this time is harmful and illegal. Parliament adopts important laws, the government works in the path of the forehead. Andrew Parubius remains in the position of Head of the Supreme Council. By October, we will have adopted tens and dozens of laws needed for Ukraine. The presence of Andria Parubia as a speaker is not only an opportunity to hold the pro-Ukrainian majority in parliamentary elections, but also a guarantee that the courses of the state, national and foreign policy, remain unchanged for EU and NATO membership. Therefore, dear fellows, do not deceive yourselves; we will not allow a rematch. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u3	Thank you, Your Honor. And, colleagues, I would like to inform you, indeed, yesterday, a statement came from the Supreme Council's office yesterday by Deputy Pisarenko about the gathering of signatures for withdrawal and resignation from the office of the Supreme Council of Andria Paris. I want to let you know, I gave an immediate commission, like all the times before, when I also applied for a similar application for the immediate issuance of signed letters. And I'm stressing that this process is not going to be delayed. Collect signatures, colleagues, and I promise you this. As soon as the necessary signatures are collected, I will immediately put this issue to a single vote: after I, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, sign the Ukrainian Language Act. And this signature won't be for long. I was surprised to learn that the age of lawlessness, injustice, and impunity has been completed for you. That's five years -- that time. So I want to tell you, these five years, the Ukrainian Parliament has passed all the laws for adopting the visa you're using today. This Parliament has adopted all anti-corruption laws. This Parliament has adopted all laws to protect national identity, language, culture, and television. This, colleagues, your era ends and ends long ago. You will not bring us back to the age of darkness and lies. And remember, and it's very important to each of you, that you voted here in favour of the 16th of January laws with your hands, that you and the fighters were in charge of the Koleschenka-Kivalova law. The Ukrainian Parliament will no longer return to that era. Tomorrow we will adopt the Law on Language democratically, openly, publicly, without fighters, note how you have adopted the Kjeval-Keleschenko law, because the Ukrainian Parliament has a Ukrainian majority, works and works. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Now, colleagues, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. Anyone who intends to make a statement, please hold the record. Sažko Sergei Mikolaiovich. Please. Let Sazko take the microphone and pass on the word. Turn on your jacket.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u4	I pass on the word to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u5	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! A few days later, millions of Ukrainians will celebrate the Day of Victory over Nazism in World War II, if officially so. And unofficially, the national victory day of the Great Homeland War on May 9th. It's a celebration that really unites millions of people throughout the country, unites generations, because it's a victory nation celebration and us, descendants of the victors over Nazism. True, not only in recent years but also the very creation of the people have tried not only to keep quiet but also to erase the memory, to replace the concept, and to rewrite history. It didn't work. It won't work. And in one of these cases, I'm going to have to put a dot right now. The point is that in 2018, in the city of Krivom Roz, after a solemn event on the day of the liberation of the city from German - Fascist invaders in a clearly designed case from the city of Krivý Rog, the city’s Museum of Sciences, was removed and exported in an unknown direction, allegedly to an expert, the real battle flags of the parts that liberated the city from the Nazis. These flags are sacred relics for hundreds of thousands of poachers, liberator soldiers and their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. And despite St. Martin's hysterical and darkobis, these flags were carried proudly by the hero guards of our part of the National Guard of Ukraine. The part whose fighters have served in the ATO area since the first days and are protecting Ukraine. So we strongly demand that these historical relics, the battle flags of the parts that fought for our land and freed not only the Horn of the Curve, but many other cities of Ukraine, be returned immediately to the poachers. And with the whole country in many cities, we're going to go through the 9th of May with the march of peace, the march of the descendants of the victors. Glory to the warriors of the Great Homeland War and the glory of the victorious nation! Please consider my speech an official address to Minister Avakov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u6	Thank you. The walker passes the word for the performance to Yatzenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u7	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and respected citizens of Ukraine! We've had this political situation going on for a long time, let's say, the situation in the country, the elections, and at a time when everyone's talking about different political issues, like the saying, "Savraška listens and eats," we've actually got raids all over the country right now. Here, for example, is the small village of Zoriane in the region of Cherkas region, where there are 100 people, who now have the head of the Church Geocadastral Mrs. Zaloga, who is using support here in Kiev, geocadastra, and there is, as it were, a friend of Mrs. Shemelinec, the first deputy geocadastra, who is squeezing the land into peasants through the bosses and the local elite. And they're being helped by a number of law enforcement officers in the Cherka region. So I'd like everyone to pay attention to that. And I think we need to take economic laws immediately after the end of electoral history, for land that won't allow raiding to land, so I'd like everyone to pay attention. And using this opportunity, I personally want Mrs. Schemelinski, the first deputy head of the geocadastral, to say hello and to say that it is wrong to take the land to the peasants. And don't let her think that she's gonna be okay, that's not gonna happen. And I'd ask journalists to get their attention. Once again, the village of Zoriane in the district of Cherkas, as an example, when the officials press the last of the peasants who are still oppressed by the state today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u8	Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich. He's handing over the loudspeaker. Please, Mr. Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u9	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. We absolutely share the feelings and aspirations of the Ukrainians to end the era of poverty in Ukraine. And our team is proposing a concrete plan to do that. The first is a reduction in gas prices and a review of the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. The President of Ukraine has the authority to cancel the government's decision to increase tariffs and, more importantly, the President's signature is under the International Monetary Fund Memorandum. Thus, tens of millions expect the new President to withdraw this signature and review the IMF memorandum on fair terms in Ukraine's interests. The second is the resignation of Chief Naftogaz Koboljev and the return to the budget illegally, unfairly paid to him and his lieutenants almost a billion dollars in premiums. You'll think about it, when a teacher, when a doctor gets a salary of 7 or 8,000 dollars, they write down a billion and a half bonuses! Oleg Lazko registered a draft Decision on the return of these funds to the last penny of the budget, because these are the costs of every Ukrainian, every taxpayer, every citizen. The third is the immediate review of the State Budget and the clearance of everything that the present dusty authorities have put in there for themselves. And we're proposing a salary increase and a recalculation of pensions. The cost must go to the Ukrainians, not to the authorities. Next. It's the adoption of a package of "Let's Make Drugs Cheap" laws initiated by the Radical Party team. He will allow more affordable treatment and medicine for every Ukrainian. Today, each other either refuses or postpones treatment because there is no cost to pay for medication. We're proposing how to make the drugs really cheaper in Ukraine. Next. This is the adoption of an industrial reform package. Now! This is the priority for President number one and for Parliament number one. The laws on industrial parks, on free networking, "Buy Ukrainian, pay Ukrainians" is a real rocket, it's a real accelerator for the Ukrainian economy, so instead of 2-3 percent of the raw drift that is today, get 8-10 percent of the healthy economic growth at the expense of investments, thanks to the creation of hundreds of thousands and millions of jobs in Ukraine for Ukrainians. And finally, this is a review of all of Ukraine's international treaties in the interests of the Ukrainians and the abolition of those who are destroying jobs in Ukraine, which are destroying the Ukrainian industry, looking at them in terms of national interests. This is a plan proposed by the Radical Party to overcome the era of poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u10	Thank you. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u11	Thank you, Mr. Head. Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Indeed, it is very strange to hear in six months that there are decrees, projects, more loyal ones, decrees to recall officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, I am also surprised to hear that a number of our colleagues claim from this rostrum that the elections in Ukraine took place democratically. It's hard for me to imagine the kind of democracy we saw, especially on the first tour, when the government was handing out money through the nets, when the buses were run by the budget guys, when the budget officer couldn't and had no moral right to say his opinion about who he was going to vote for. Dear colleagues, this is not a democracy. Democracy is when the Ukrainian electorate is free to talk about who he's going to vote for wherever he's not working for, either in public service institutions or in other institutions that have an impact on him, I mean, leaders. I will also mention, my fellow Members, that you and I in this room have voted for a fantastic reform of the Ukrainian public service. And all those who know the tools and the administration, the public service, they clearly understand that even this mechanism can be considered a big forgery, because all the heads of district and district administrations in the election turn into party officials and are actually managers of active government headquarters. That is why President Poroshenko has dedicated this reform, which we have approved here with you, as reported by my colleague, Olena Skrum. It is in order to use this administrative resource, including in these elections. What should we do next? I think we should not take such decisions into consideration here, but we should immediately put the new President's back on the table. And I also find it very strange to hear that from the mouth of the new president's representatives they say that they are not responsible for the tariff policy or for the other because they have no authority. No, dear colleagues, is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think there are statesmen in this room who need to get to reform and government immediately. I'll also remind you that we also need to review medical reform. Let me remind you that we have to take care of pensions and wages. It is in this context that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should shoulder the newly elected President. And it is also urgent to vote on the President's impeachment Act, registered back in 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u12	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u13	Julius Timoshenko and Andrew Kožemiakin, as well as the laws that allow for the control of the highest official in the country, the Law on Temporary Special and Investigative Commissions. And of course, we have once and for all to rid ourselves of this inviolability of MPs and all officials in the country so that it will not be speculated on in the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u14	Thank you. The skin conveys the word for Volodymyr Litvina. Please, Mr. Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u15	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! When I hear the groaning about how well things were until yesterday, more to 21 numbers, which are huge achievements, and now everything is gone, I think of Taras Shevchenk saying, "If you knew, panic where people are crying, you wouldn't create an elegy, and you wouldn't praise God in vain." Is that what you're saying? Is that what you're saying? That people have been completely poor these last five years? What do you say that people die in a mass way? Do you not receive applications and appeals from people? Obviously, you do not go on party lists and do not communicate with people. Why are you happy that they have been killed in the last five years and that people live on reservations? Why are you happy that the orphans, where they were, who were in every area, and where the lonely people lived, were taken out of their funding, transferred to the village councils, and the village councils closed them down and the people, the elderly lonely people, who worked 50-70 years, were thrown into the streets? And you're happy, with the enormous achievements that you're going to the EU and NATO? Who needs you there? Why are you happy when schools close when the FAPs close, when the branches of banks that served the people who received the pension there close? Motivation one: we need a financial result, we can't reach it. I have a question: Why are you so happy? And now they have come to the conclusion that the Law must be adopted on the impeachment that the Law on the President of Ukraine must be adopted. Where have you been before? They gave all their powers in contravention of the Constitution, to my deep conviction. Instead, dear colleagues, we have to go back to the tariff decision, they've been lying there and standing under the bleachers, demanding a reduction in tariffs. Where are you with your demands? Let's take this decision right now in the middle of the season, and they'll support us. I think the current president will sign to make it a major pain for the next president. Let's take a look at what we need to make so that we don't go outside of Ukraine, the ones that worked so well for Ukraine, and more specifically for ourselves. Let's go back to the Illustration Act, fill it out, because we accepted it for "papermakers," and we reminded the country. And they did more for themselves than all the predecessors combined. I think the Supreme Council should be hearing soon about the audit that remains in the country. And then we'll figure out what we're going to do next. I think that would be the right approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u16	Thank you. Jurik gives the floor to Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u17	Praise Jesus Christ! The election's over. Knowledge and understanding will come in time. Time will tell you who's worth it. No one is born President, but at the same time taking responsibility and claiming that I will learn to rule the state as President, including the army, poses great risks to the existence of the State itself and especially to the security of our boys. President Poshenko has already entered Ukraine's history by preserving our independence during military aggression, by restoring the army that has protected us, by restoring our faith, by decentralization, by heading to Europe. Give God to make at least 1 percent of what has already been accomplished. But at the same time, we guarantee those who have gone through war: no surrender of national interests, no surrender of security issues, or no exit from Moscow course. Now more than ever is the threat of rematch and oligarchs, and the usurpation of power by changing the election system solely on party lists. We should not take away the right of the people to elect their deputies. The MP must report to the people, not the party owner. A deputy. People need to know who to choose and who to ask. So you might ask people themselves what parties they trust? 99 percent will say none. So there can be no question about the party election system. Because we've had enough of the virtual presidents of the Bluebeards. Once he gets the virtual MPs, it's going to be the collapse of our statehood in general. The most interesting thing about the fight against corruption is that most of those who were previously called to criminal responsibility for corruption, who took bribes, who were and remain the mother of Ukrainian corruption in gas contracts, and so on. But time will tell who is worth it. And most importantly, we need to learn to find the truth. Because without the truth, we're nothing. Lying, populism, and cynicism are more harmful to the country than even war is to corruption. Because they begin with lies, populism, and cynicism. And Baltzerovich said, "Where populism prevails, the state loses, the nation loses." So I urge you, honourable MPs and honourable politicians, to be worthy and not as political as statesmen, who at any time, difficult for the country, are ready to take the responsibility of making unpopular decisions, but without which the state will not exist. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u18	The festivities pass the word for the performance to Shipkow.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u19	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nicopol city, Pochrov city, Nicopolsk district Dear national MPs, dear voters! The Lord and people of Ukraine want change. And they need to be started. The second day in a row, I point out that it is Parliament that is responsible for these changes. Because what does society need? So that there are laws that unite people, laws that solve people’s problems, and that they are implemented. What is the main question today, besides peace and corruption? Right is the health of people. In the 17th year, Parliament voted in favour of the so-called medical reform and should vote in favour of the introduction of a compulsory health insurance. Instead of insurance, people were given a beautiful pierre called affordable medicine. There is a Piar, and there is no available medicine. People continue to lose the last to buy drugs, pay for expensive operations, doctors, and without waiting for changes, go abroad. We're running out of medical personnel, doctors. At this rate, we'll be out of medicine and out of people. And Parliament must correct this mistake. The time for change is now the time of insurance medicine. And the laws on the introduction of insurance medicine have been here for years in the Supreme Council, I repeat, for years. Bill 4981 on mandatory social insurance in Ukraine was registered as early as 2016 and has not yet been put to the vote. Bill 9163 on health financing and compulsory health insurance in Ukraine, registered in the 18th year, was also not put to the vote. Mr. Head, why don't you bring these bills to the table? Is protecting people’s health not a priority? Yes, we know that in this Supreme Council, there is no coalition in this room or in Parliament. But medical insurance will unite the session hall and the country. And when we vote in favour, there will be faith, faith in Ukraine's future, because health is the most important value for man and for a socially just state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u20	The Zastavan Roman Josephovich is invited to attend. He's handing over Fedoruk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, yesterday's ruling by the Montenegrin District Administrative Court on the illegal recognition of the decisions of the Montenegrin City Council since July 2018 and the restoration of the city's head, Alexia Kaspruka, has put the day's issue in order: How can we deal with these 29 incompetent ignorant people, the popularly chosen city head? Just as many as 29 voted in favour of resigning the elected city head. The answer is the election. By the way, two years ago, my colleague Maxim Burbak and I registered the Order for the Victory of the Montenegrin City Council. But unfortunately, this question was not discussed in Parliament, which led to this infamous decision in July 18th. Yesterday, the city’s chief, Kaspruk, said that he too was willing to go to the polls with the deputies. We need to make decisions on this issue. I'm sure we should make these decisions, because it's not just the Chernobyl situation. I inform you that in Ukraine after the elections of the local 15th year, 58 heads of rural, rural and urban heads have been suspended for a period of time. And in the Supreme Council, there are 209 draft decrees on consecutive elections, and we don't make any decisions for a long time. Decentralisation is not only a uniting of communities but also the responsibility of elected councils and heads. And we need, not just words, but, in fact, concrete actions to support local self - government. We need to eliminate state administrations and create an institution of prefects in our country. And there's more. It is known that many parents win, but only defeat is an orphan. So this is about decentralization. It started, and I want to remind my colleagues, and I want to inform someone, perhaps someone, from the adoption by the government of Arsenija Yatsenuk, following the initiative of then Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Groysman, of the Concept of Reforming Local Self-Government and the Territorial System in Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this decision was adopted on April 1, 2014, that there were not even many colleagues in this room. But some forget that. So some people live by the principle: "Your successes are our successes, and your shortcomings are our shortcomings." We do. Much work must be done and a number of laws, including the administration, should be passed on to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u22	Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u23	I am confident that before the next election, and this composition of the Supreme Council will be able to do much, if you will, for local self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u24	Thank you. Sporish gives Luchniak a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u25	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head! Ukrainian Parliament! Today I want to raise the subject of hospital districts, which has already had to do in Ukraine since 2015, since we became a decentralization process. In the Ternopil region in 2016 it was submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for the creation of four hospital districts. This decision was made without local authorities. No circuit, rural council, board of united territorial communities, and district councils have made any decisions regarding the establishment of these hospital districts. What does that mean? No one was asked. They did not ask people how this medical service would be provided, but they simply crossed it off with a pencil. I now address the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Ternopil district council, the Ternopil district administration, to cancel the decision on the establishment of four hospital districts in Ternopil. We've had enough populism. Today we see a neighborhood twice the size of an area, twice the size of a population, creating one hospital district, where there is a clear provision of secondary, third-level medical services, where complex surgical operations are provided. This is indeed true of the principle of rendering service to a man, a Ukrainian. I want to ask you again to decide that the Ternopil area should have one hospital district to review. I appeal to the Ministry of Health before you sign such decisions below, you need to take an analytical look and see if this really fits the reality. Because I don't see any analysis on the part of the Ministry of Health on this issue. Once again, I am calling on the Prime Minister, the head of the district council, to cancel the decree that the Ternopil area today should create four hospital districts, to create at the Ternopil district hospital, the Ternopil university hospital, the only basic hospital district that will provide quality medical services. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u26	Thank you. Matvienkov gives the floor to Igor Shurma. Yes, and the next one is Shurma, give you six minutes, please. And this will be a closing statement from the deputies. I ask the committee head to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u27	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. This is the first time I'm going to ask only you to hear the information, and I'm going to address those people who will come along with the new president. I think you'll find that information interesting because it's reliable. I want you to know that every year, think about it. In Ukraine, 10,000 people die from tuberculosis, ten new patients, including children, are exposed to tuberculosis every day. Since 1995, when the epidemic was declared, 150,000 citizens of Ukraine have died. Today, in connection with the departure of doctors, there is no complete state of antituberculosis, no treatment, and no treatment. The issue of tuberculosis is number one in the world. And today, the World Organization and the Global Fund have brought this problem to its peak. A program is being developed by the year 2035 for this disease to be phased out, and Ukraine, as part of the world movement, should also participate. Moreover, the fight against tuberculosis is the subject of international obligations in part of the implementation of the provisions of the Association Agreement with the European Union. Andry Volodymyrovich, you said today that reaching this hall is our failure. So I have to tell you that this car has opened up, and it's not just going to shut down, but it's going to collapse because experts from the European Bureau of the World Health Organization are openly saying that they're worried about the rise in tuberculosis in the EU because of the granting of visa-free treatment to Ukrainian citizens. If you look at what happens to the crust, 100,000 in three years! An unprecedented number of sick people in history, and we have a graduate at Michigan College, who won't be able to tell us what the sign of the epidemic is. In New York, in the provinces, 235 people got sick. She was brought there by hasids who were in Ukraine. This failure can end in a very shameful way for Ukraine. To combat tuberculosis, we need to adopt a program. So I'd like to remind those emissaries who came and sat here that there was a steady job from 2002 to 2011. Today there is a need to conclude a new covenant, to accept a new program. The old program ended in 2016, there was no break. They didn't accept the program. In 2017, there was an increase in tuberculosis among children. The Cabinet of Ministers is developing a concept in 2017. And do you know when it is submitted to the Health Committee? We sat on the committee yesterday, we looked at it. It was filed in January! For two years, no one has submitted, and we are told what is going on. There are many granitoids sitting on the left, on the right, who make flash mobs and invite college graduates to stand down. Well, they weren't filmed in America, and it's interesting to show your knowledge. Well, I'll show you. I don't know what you're talking about and reporting to the World Health Organization, and I have to tell you that on March 5, 2019, the U.S. Department of Health ordered 505 distributions of anti-tuberculosis drugs purchased in 2017! That means there's nothing in the 17th or the 18th or the 19th. This is the 2018 Order on the Distribution of Drugs Purchased in 2016, 16 billion dollars totalled abroad. There's no medicine for today, no money back. Tuberculosis provides for the use of almost 3.5 billion budget funding. And today we are being asked to vote on the committee by 8 people to approve the government program. You think someone from the Ministry came? No one's here, no Suprun, no one's here. Well, I understand she doesn't have an education, and I understand that Vladimir Borisovich doesn't have a medical education, well, someone has to know, have a legal right. Today let's go back to the Constitution. Part one of the first article 58 of the Constitution of Ukraine has established a position regarding the inadmissibility of retroactive action in times of laws, other normative acts, which are a public principle of law. Well, you don't know about that, the person who's temporarily in charge, well, why do MPs have to write back the used one-and-a-half billion in the 17th year, in the 18th and the program as a back number? The committee yesterday unanimously, I emphasize, and the representatives of the WFP, who are unable to take responsibility for the Suprun, and the People's Front, and Self-Help, in full stock, have, by one percentage, supported the return of the Cabinet of Ministers to this program, to work on it, and to report to either Rosenko, who is the head of the commission, or Suprun. I remind you, you had Suprun on your feet, but it'll turn into claws for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u28	The speeches by the National Deputies have been completed. In this way we can continue to consider the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. Please, one minute. And I'll remind you: 1975 law, Germany, Shufrich. 75th. It's where we start. After the Prince's speech, I'll give you my word immediately. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u29	Thank you. First of all, I wanted to express my support to Andria Paris, because you know that signatures are being collected by the disorderly, dishonest people for his resignation, for the resignation of a man who has demonstrated his loyalty to Ukraine through his work, for the love of Ukraine, who, through the creation of self-defence for Maidan and the leadership of self-defence for Maidan, ensured that Ukraine is moving in the European direction that we signed the Association Agreement. Mr. Andrey, thank you personally and for everything you do for the adoption of the Language Law. I'd like to say. That it is very important for us, indeed, to adopt this law in order for language to cease to be a subject of speculation. To adopt a democratic law that will appease Ukrainian society, which will find support both in the West and in the East, to adopt a law that will finally stop language speculation and allow Ukraine to develop freely and democratically. The anti-Ukrainian forces that invent fairy tales about this law are opposed by corrupt forces that, in the form of protection of Ukraine, say that this law will not be effective. He is being attacked by all because he is being speculated on and divided by many forces, especially those.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u30	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u31	Especially those forces that are outside Ukraine and want our state to be divided, so that our nation does not find common language among itself to oppose in our country the Ukrainians, the representatives of the national minorities. The law takes into account all interests, it will be comfortable for everyone, once and for all, to put a dot on these language speculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u32	Thank you. I just want to make a message, colleagues. The Committee on Culture today will be held at 2:30 p.m. on the third floor here -- for those who intend to come to the committee and participate in it, so I want to make it public so that we can find all the common language by tomorrow. Let me remind you that we should go through all the paperwork today and tomorrow at 11 a.m., move on to the decision-making process. A very systematic job is being done to convince MPs not to vote, not to be tomorrow, not to come. So I emphasize to everyone who considers himself Ukrainian, Ukrainian patriot, statesman, tomorrow to be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, at 11 o'clock, everyone should be in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And now I give the floor to Mr. German on the right hand of 1975. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the reporter here in the anti-Ukrainian class takes those who do not agree with this law to the bill. I wouldn't allow myself to publish such thoughts. That's the first one. And second of all, I'm talking about what's going on here, what's the list, what's the support, what's the feedback, and all that. We're doing a bill right now, and we don't have to confuse politics or vision here, or the world-viewed issues in the direction of others, not the bill. And this position, article 2, which is being supplemented, I ask you to exclude, because it is meddling in the Law on the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u34	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u35	is essentially a violation of the legislative procedure and a violation of the principle established by the Constitutional Court on the inadmissibility of a decision and settlement by another court. another law of law that is already governed by another law. It's possible to add complements -- it's possible, not to make a unified standard on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u36	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u37	Thank you. First, I have called the enemies of Ukraine not those who are against any of the rules of this law – for this reason we are discussing it in a democratic procedure, people have different views – and those who want to eat people on a language basis between regions, among the representatives of different peoples living in Ukraine. Such people are certainly anti - Ukrainians. As far as this is concerned, it is purely technical. The point is that the matter of translating foreign speakers into other languages should be regulated by the Rules. If someone is speaking in a foreign language, a transcript in Parliament is translated into English. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine does not say anything, nor does it say anything about the ban on translations of the transcripts. Thank you. The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u38	Thank you. I'll bet you a vote on the 1975 amendment. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:47:49]] For-13. The decision is not taken. 1976, Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I, first of all, editorially, editorially point out that the term "promotion" is not unified, because there is still a "report," there is still "information." So tell me, where is the speech? Is this the information that the reporter is carrying or is this the report? That's it. Uncertainty, legal uncertainty, and dualism give birth to curves and dualism in application. That's what this is about. And the law is written, and it's approved just to be applied by people who don't even know legal norms. But they go on purpose, that's all. What's a speech? What else? There could be a translation, there's no report. And everything else. And as we have guests from abroad, what's that like? That's it. I'd like to have it settled in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u40	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u41	Dear colleague Germany, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure Act exists and uses the terms "talk" and "speaker." In this case, you are a speaker who proposes to exclude the rule that a speech and part of it are given in a language other than the national one, at a meeting of the Supreme Council, its committee or commission, as translated into a transcript of a meeting in a national language. The committee disagreed with the law because it believed that if the speaker spoke a foreign language here, it should be translated into Ukrainian. That's why this rule is being deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u42	Thank you. I'm betting on the 1976 vote. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. [[10:50:00]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, I'd like to give you a message. I got a statement from two factions -- "The Opposition Block" and "The Rebirth" -- demanding a real break, and then a performance. Since the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine state that a recess is given up to 30 minutes, and this is not regulated, I announce a five - minute recess. Please be in the hall. It'll take five minutes. In 55 minutes, I'll give you the floor to the head of the opposition block of Novinski, and we'll continue our work. I stress once again, according to the Rules, up to 30 minutes. This is a requirement of two factions. We'll wait five minutes, we'll hold a consultation, and we'll resume our work in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the time taken for a break is quickly passing. No, not two more, I've got it all written down, 10:54. One more minute, in 30 seconds, I'll invite you in, in 30 seconds. So the time for the break has passed. And I invite you to address the head of Mr. Novinski's Opposition Block. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u44	Dear citizens, distinguished national MPs! The period of the presidency of Peter Poshenko still needs to be appreciated by historians and law enforcement officials, but it is clear that in the past five years many things have been done that will be caused by great trouble, especially in the area of religious power experiments, attempts to destroy the canonic Ukrainian Orthodox Church, and to create a pocket and unrecognizable world Orthodox PCU. We, as representatives of the Opposition Block, have warned of the possible consequences of the State's involvement in church affairs. Today, unfortunately, we can talk about a church survey that has become of a mass nature. In general, a number of regions already have massive incidents of illegal possession of property, cult buildings, and buildings that are owned and used by OPC religious communities, through the holding of local assemblies, where illegal decisions are made, are made by fictitious protocols. All cases of illegal possession of property are accompanied by clashes, powerlessness, and counterfeiting of documents. At the same time, all UPC communities continue to exist physically and carry out religious life with the clergy. However, the authorities do not take this into account. We see obvious discrimination based on religious signs and the division of believers into right and wrong. Today, 80 parishes of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church have been illegally transformed by officials of district administrations on the basis of fictitious documents. The most massive nature of similar actions in the Plains and Volin areas. By ordering the head of the Ravens ’ ODA Mularenko and the head of Volin’s ODA, Savchenka, to reregister the statutes of religious communities in the new edition illegally in connection with the change in the jurisdiction of the registered charter of religious organizations and the change in their location and legal name. This resulted in numerous attacks on temples, priests, and believers of the UPC. They were particularly identified in Zdolbunski, Koratski, and Goshtanski RDA, Kurozhanski and Sister’s silrady, Radivilovska rajrada, the Brezniv Police Department, and the Silrada in the town of Berestecko, and in the Lutsk City Council, as well as in many others. There is also a violation of legislation in the field of State registration of religious communities in Kyiv, Vinnitsky, Žitomirski, Zakarpatski, and other areas of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I believe that the correction of crimes and perversions should be initiated immediately. It is urgent to stop church auditing and to adopt a new balanced legislation that regulates the relationship between religions and the extent of State intervention in church affairs. I want to point out that every illegal act, every fact of persecution, assault, or oppression against priests and believers of the UPC.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u45	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u46	the consequences. Every capture, every capture, and every illegal order and forged document will be investigated, and the guilty will be punished. I want to contact all officials and representatives of the local government. Do not do anything that will have legal effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u47	Time's up. I've already given you time. No! No! I'm giving everyone the same, up to 30 seconds. This is because he comes out and threatens the creation of the Ukrainian Church in Ukraine. What have we come to? We who had been in church for 100 years had already moved over 500 communities to the Ukrainian Church. Ukrainian society unites around the Ukrainian Church. Don't threaten us, my friends. Don't threaten me, please. Because we can speak that language much more harshly, but we are having a civilized discussion. And do not threaten Ukrainians who today want to unite in the Ukrainian Church. The Ukrainians have the right to do so, have that will, and will continue to unite around the Ukrainian Church. Rematch didn't work out. The Dark Age will never come back. And I invite you to speak to the head of the committee of Mikol Knieżick. And the next issue, 1978, Germany. 1978. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u48	Dear Chairman! The correction of Shufrich and German. I'd like you to call the Shufrich family because you're forgetting something. Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. This is the correction of Germany and Shufrich, and you told Germany. Perhaps under the Rules you should indicate the authors of the amendments. Now for the repair. It's about the repairs. Look what's going on here. We're going to set up tests for the candidate, we're going to call him a candidate for the national MPs. So how can we? How can we come out of the same article 173 that apply? And what's the other law, what's the position on language knowledge? It's the community that chooses. Today, there is still a major decision - making system.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u49	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u50	There's a majority system. And think about how you can if you don't speak English.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u51	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleague, we were just looking at the 1978 amendment, not 79. This amendment is not about a national MP. This is about the demands for a special prosecutor to investigate the issues of the possible impeachment of the President, because it is prescribed. It's actually supposed to speak the national language, it's now. This option provides that the level of ownership should be generally confirmed. So the point must be left in the law, and accordingly your amendment was rejected. This is the case with the prosecutor who will report specifically in the case of the President's impeachment, not the National MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u53	Please vote. [[11:02:11]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1979, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Don't insist. Next amendment, 1980, National Deputy Germany. Please turn on the microphone to the German National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to tell the honourable reporter, say, look, there's a colon there and there's no editor. Can't you see? Take a look at this 1977 revision, and then tell us what it is about. Then write, as it's supposed to be, the bill you're passing in the hall, and your assumptions, your ideas, I can't conclude. That's what this is about. Keep going. Regarding the transfer of national language standards to the National Commission. So look at the double approach you have, you say, enough attestation. For whom, for local governments? If he has an attestation, he has an evaluation of some knowledge of the Ukrainian language. What else should a person do, pass a commission, or pay there? You know what I mean. Throw it away.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u55	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u56	What a loving citizen would require is for everyone in a trading establishment to speak English.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u57	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleague, we are. you've returned to the previous amendment. There, after two dots, it was said, "he speaks the national language at the level set by the National Commission of Public Language Standards." Now, let's do it. You've made an amendment to 1971. 1980. This is indeed an amendment that now applies to national deputies. You propose to delete the item "speaks the national language at a level set to embrace the position of the national MP." Well, obviously the national deputies in this room should speak and speak English, so the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u59	Thank you. And please vote. [[11:04:44]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1981. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we've already reached the Foreign Control Act, we're already putting this law under the Act on the Functioning of the State Language. Say, please, the very name "about border control," what's "about border control" here? Look, please. And that's why we think that this law can't be affected by these motives. Do we have a question about the threat to Ukrainian language abroad or what? Is it that the national language is not used or what? What is the reason for raising the issue of the protection of Ukrainian as a national language on the border? What are we writing, what are we interfering with? I'd like to be explained here. Not to mention people going through passport control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u61	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u62	And it's supposed to go through passport control, speak the national language. Who's talking about it? Is that a challenge? This time. And the second. How can you make a man who.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u63	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u64	Thank you. Well, we're just discussing "transitional positions." We have already discussed article 17, which states that the use of the national language at the crossing of the state border of Ukraine, when crossing Ukrainian citizens, is carried out in national language, customs, and other forms of control. During crossings by foreigners or stateless persons, the border, customs, and other forms of control are carried out in a national language or another language spoken by an official or official who exercises control. In this law we are now merely making reference to this amendment to the Law on Border Control, which colleagues of Germany and Shufric propose to exclude. The committee disagreed, so the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u65	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:07:17]] For -14 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 1982. Please turn on the microphone to the national deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u66	It's about what I said before, it's about justification, and we think it's about writing it in this law, that's all. the more in this law after 7 p.m., as proposed, with badge 1, this is unacceptable. And so we ask you to rule out this reference in this law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u67	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u68	This amendment, which proposes to exclude the name of the article, was not supported by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u69	Thank you. Please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:08:18]] For-9 The decision is not taken. Next amendment, 1983. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, I'll just read you the content: "Mouth control at the crossing of the state border." "Control language," you know, control is action, and language is another legal field. Well, what are we writing? What kind of detail? Where is she coming from? What does it lead to? Language control. Do you understand what this is about or not? And so on. And then you refer to that the language of control at the crossing of the state border is defined by the Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. That's it. What did you load up? What's the point? What is the etymology? Uncover it. What is "control language"? And what's border control? Do you know how to report? I don't know. Language control. Please tell me. And I'd like to not let that happen. That's what it's all about. That's the norm of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u71	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u72	Dear colleague, I just read you article 17, you just read it again. I've just read it, it's in a document that's given to you. It says that this is "control language": "The use of the state language at the crossing of the state border of Ukraine by Ukrainian citizens is carried out in a national language, but if a person does not know it in other languages." You propose to exclude references to the Language Law. The committee didn't support it, so he's against your amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u73	Thank you. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:10:20]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1984. There's no insistence on a national MP. Next amendment number 1985. People's MP Papiew. He insists on correcting it. He's not in the hall. Next amendment number 1986 of the German People's Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you that we've moved on. I'm sorry. Please turn on the timer, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u75	Please continue, National Deputy Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u76	May I? We've moved to the law, to the Culture Act. I just want to say that it's the ideology of this law that starts, whether the bill in the culture system starts with a council decision in Lviv, in Žitomir, and I think in Ternopol on the moratorium on the adoption of Russian-speaking cultural product. You can imagine what that decision could have been at the age of 21. That's all we can say and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u77	I'd like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u78	Thank you. Just because we do not have the Language Law, each district council makes its own decisions, thereby dividing the country, and this is not true. This has to be unified by the only law for the whole country, as this amendment says, that the Culture Act is in compliance with the State Language Act and is in line with it. You're suggesting we rule it out. The committee rejected your offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u79	Thank you and vote, please. [[11:12:36]] Z-11. The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1987, National Deputy of Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u80	Dear reporter, that's exactly what you said, you've determined the whole point of what we've been discussing here with you for three weeks. You said, as far as these decisions are concerned, it has to be unified to be on the level of law -- prohibition, moratorium on adoption, distribution of Russian-speaking cultural product. That's understandable. But I'd like to look at you, you know, as you said before: you can see on your robes, so I'd like to look at the ideology that's set up here. Can't you see that there's a division of society through such a bill, such a bill, essentially a ban? A moratorium is a ban. And yet you said it would be unified at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u81	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u82	Yeah, I said I'm against any moratoriums or bans on Russian-Polish- and Hungarian-speaking products, because they're not democratic methods. And this law prohibits such methods. And you're standing up for them now. So this amendment of yours was rejected. We're not going to ban the product in any language, but we're going to protect the Ukrainian language as this law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u83	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:14:24]] For -14 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1988. National deputy of Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u84	For the information of the reporter, specifically. I want to inform you that these decisions have been challenged by the Ukrainian Election organization, to which I am involved, and the court has declared such moratoriums illegal, so that you may know. The same will happen to your bill if you give it the strength of a standard. That's what this is about. And as for the order of application in the field of culture, look, it's already going through cultural regulation here, it's going into the regulation of the Ukrainian Language Act as a national language. Please tell me, you've been here for a month to talk about what needs to be protected, there's a threat to the use, the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Please tell me where there are such quotas in the culture system, the quotas you set, the subtitles you set, and c.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u85	Please finish 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u86	Yeah. And that's why I'd like you, if you're already in the culture field. You say, the sphere of culture is everything, it's life, it's people's lives simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u87	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u88	Thank you. Thus, the Law on State Language not only establishes the obligation to use the national language in the cultural field but also allows the use of other languages. I gave an example when we discussed this article. The museum table at the museum, anywhere, can be written in any language, but next door it should be in Ukrainian. That doesn't limit anyone. This simply protects Ukrainians so that they can obtain cultural services, but it does not prohibit people who use other languages from receiving these services in other languages. This is a totally democratic article that you're proposing to exclude, and the committee rejected it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u89	Thank you. Please vote. [[11:16:50]] For-12. The decision is not taken. The following amendment, 1989, insists on the approval of the People’s Deputy Papiew. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u90	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, honourable citizens of Ukraine! You can see that this anti-national law is continuing to be considered, and as a person who has spent his entire life in English, I can say the following: the greatest harm to Ukrainian language than this law can do anything. So in fact, this law, which contains the title, it would seem, of function, that positive things are in the title, in the body of the law, it's shaped in such a way that it's a law banning Russian. You're not going anywhere in this law to show Russian. This law banning Romanian language, this law banning Hungarian language, this law banning Crimean Tatar language. So it's absolutely a law that doesn't have the right to exist in a civilized European country. You lie to people, you lie to them about the essence and content of this law. Vote, accept, but the people of Ukraine have already shown you now, on the second round, your rating is going to be zero.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u91	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u92	Thank you. Well, since the leader of the political power I belong to didn't take part in the election, which you did, the people showed you your ratings, if we're talking about ratings. I very much ask you, colleague, not to express here, as I think, your hatred of the Russians, hatred of the Romanians, especially the hatred of the Crimean Tatars, which you constantly mention with such words of hatred. Because the law protects Ukrainians, protects Russians, protects Romanians, protects Crimean Tatars, protects Ukrainian citizens of all nations. Because as I said before, if the museum says that there should be an inscription in Ukrainian, it does not prohibit the inscription in other languages. Please. This leads to peace, to the peace that you always want to violate. The article Pisarenko, by the way, was taken into account because the amendments to the Law on Elections of People’s Deputies were excluded from the bill. So I'd like to take it into account, not completely, but without the words "paragraph 40, 2." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u93	People's deputies are invited to identify themselves as the committee head. [[11:19:23]] For-16 The decision is not taken. Next Amendment No. 1990. People's MP Papiew insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u94	Madam Chairman, I have a single request for you, it has already spoken not once in this room, a very big request to you. How could I ever be a person who never wants or moves on to any personal matter, but a very big request: you presiding during a plenary session, listen carefully to the proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputies. And when you put to the vote a proposal that's not in the table. Well, you can't vote on the second question of some of the things in the voice spoken by the committee head. You put the previous vote completely against the current and valid rule of the Rules, you will not find it anywhere during the second reading to vote on the proposal of someone who is not in the table, which is voted by the head of the committee. What did you come up with? I have a very big request: Please study the Rules and listen carefully to the suggestions made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. I took the floor for what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u95	Thank you. Next change in number one thousand. [[B in m in s a l in]] You had a chance. Your Honor, you've had the opportunity to finish. Next amendment number 1991. People's MP Papiew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u96	Oksana Ivanovna, there's still a chapter in the Rules -- that's the MP's ethics. Please read it. When you give me your word, you do, and you are obliged to listen to the invitation of the Ukrainian national deputy. I say again to the transcript because, you know, this law is going to be the subject of debate in the Constitutional Court, that when you were looking at the second reading, when you gave me your word on amendment 1989, you didn't give me the opportunity to use the constitutional norm of the legislative initiative of the Ukrainian People's Deputy and to make my proposal, which was to put this amendment to the full extent. Well, he'll learn to run a session. Study the Rules, it's not such a complicated thing. The rules were specially written in a simple, accessible language so that you could conduct meetings in accordance with the Rules. I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u97	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head. Just before that, I'm going to say that the subject of discussion of national MPs during the consideration of the bill is amendments to the law, but not other considerations. So please discuss the amendments. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleague, I would like to tell you that the Rules do not provide for an amendment that has not been discussed to be confirmed, we should discuss it. That's the first one. It's different. The rule does not provide for an amendment, as you always do. Please speak with the amendment, it will allow us to work constructively. This amendment was taken into account by German and Shufric colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u99	Please, National MP Papiew insists on confirming the amendment of the German National MP, who was counted. People's deputies, please vote. [[11:23:16]] For-32 The decision is not taken. Next amendment No. 1992 of the German People's Deputy. People’s MP Papiew insists that it be confirmed. German, Mr. German, will you be speaking? Please turn on the microphone to the German National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u100	I want to say in this part that the previous amendment, there is no conclusion of the committee. You put it to a vote here. It doesn't even have it counted or it doesn't count. It's either conspiracies or conspiracies as well as yours as the presiding officer in this plenary room. So I'd like it to be stated. So the committee didn't even consider our amendment, that's what we're talking about. Because there's no, there's no "accounted for" or there's no "accounted for." And that's why I'd like everyone's people's rights not to be violated. That's it. A legislative procedure is under way. Something like that, for example, to know if it's rejected or counted, I need to know what's counted. You look at the contents where we count, and we don't have anything. Reporter. Please tell me I'm referring to 91 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u101	Please, 30 seconds to the German People's Deputy for Amendment 1992. We voted 91st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u102	I'm begging you, I said 91st. Mrs. Oksano! I ask 91 amendments, which Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich and Vasil Nimchenko, also Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u103	We missed the 1990 amendment. Please, the People's Deputy Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Oksana Ivanovna, look, I've been addressing you. One day, be more careful, put this phone aside, and you sit on the phone all the time. In general, either conduct a session or make a telephone call. You've already missed the 1991 amendment. Germany, a national MP, tells you that, Madam Chairman, put the phone aside, take the session. Select one thing: Either you are presiding at this meeting, or you decide on some personal matters. You've missed the 1991 amendment, which makes it clear to you that there is no committee recommendation at all with this amendment. Look, read it once, there's no "distracted" or "accounted for." And in general, the table is formed in such a way that it is completely unedited by the committee. So the Ukrainian national MPs are voting cat in bag.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u105	Dear National MP, the committee head has already made it clear that this was a technical mistake and the 1991 amendment has already been voted on. It was voted 1991. Please, about amendment number 1993. Please, amendment number 1993. People's deputy Boyko. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how we voted about it. Look at the transcript. Open the transcript, read it. Amendment number 1993, National Deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the 1993 review was rejected by the committee in view of the fact that the 1989 - 1992 rulings were taken into account and, in fact, the standard to which I applied was rejected. Therefore, there is no need for a vote. I hope that the committee will then take into account those proposals that have now been balanced. And so, once again, there's no need to put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u107	Sir, will you comment? He doesn't insist on voting. Okay, let's move on. Amendment number 1994. A national MP does not insist. Amendment number 1995. Don't insist. Amendment number 1996. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is a matter of extending the jurisdiction of this law, of the bill in the future, as the authors see it, and of legal activity by amending the laws. In the Law on Lawyers and Systematic Changes. You just have to look at who was doing the expertise on the fact that we have a private lawyer, there's an institution where legal professionals work. I wish we didn't touch those laws where. It says everything that relations with the courts are exclusively in the official Ukrainian language. And there can't be any for today. This is already recorded in the Law on the Status of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u109	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u111	30 seconds, finish your bids. What are you doing? Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u112	Colleagues, please. I want to say that essentially all legal relations in the judicial system, in the judicial system, as well as in the law enforcement system, are already defined in the law, which is used exclusively in Ukrainian, state language. [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's why I'd like to say why overload it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u113	I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u114	Thank you. Madam Chairman, please ask that the speaker there -- who it is, I can't see -- not to run there or there, because I can't see the speaker. Dear colleague Germany, I would like to read you a part of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on Lawyers and Lawyers Act 2014 after the words "speaks in national language" to be supplemented by the words "according to the level determined under the Ukrainian Act on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State". According to article 10, the level of language spoken by a lawyer is certified by a school certificate. So this only makes a change to. agrees with each other on the law on legal activity, and this law that lawyers have to speak Ukrainian is sufficient to do so in school. Period. As a result, your amendment was rejected. Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u115	People's deputies, please vote. [[11:31:11]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Next amendment number 1997 of the German People's Deputy. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u116	This is again about the activities of the bar. But I'd like to, Mrs. Oksana, you're talking again, I'm in Germany, I'm in the hall. I want to ask you, why did you rule 1992 out and make it, so to speak, invisible? I think I sent your infidel. And that's why I'd like to keep my volume in my books as a national deputy and go back to 1992. With regard to this amendment, please delete it. Because the Law of Lawyer here has already been said by the reporter that all of this is enshrined in the Law on Lawyers, that you added there, that there is jurisdiction to introduce this Law on State. Why is that? The Constitution says that we have a national language. Where else can we put this? How do you write "as state-owned," and here is "as state-owned"?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u117	The national MP has finished. Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u118	Thank you. Thank you. I have great respect for Vasil Ivanovich Germany, and he said that maybe we didn't really vote on the 1992 amendment. If he insists, we can put her to the vote again and then. There's an MP holding a German girl, waving his hands. Put your hand down, MP. Because you're waving your hands, you're holding a German, I can't see. Put it to the vote. Thank you. Oh, yes, Vasil Ivanovich, let's put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u119	We are now putting to the vote amendment number 1997. And then we'll go back and vote in favour of Amendment 1992. Please vote Amendment number 1997. [[11:33:26]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. And the 1992 amendment. We discussed it, but the German national deputy insists. We missed the vote for her. Please vote. [[11:33:55]] For-12. The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u120	My colleagues, thank you very much, Mrs. Oksani Siroid, who worked very actively with the Hall today on the amendments, we continue this work. And from what I understand, now we have a change of number. Mikolo, repair.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u121	1998.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u122	Amendment number 1998 of our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Boyko. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the 1998 law suggests in section VI, paragraph 2.41. "Transitional positions" is the word "National Commission of Public Language Standards" to replace the words "central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." This is called upon to order the existing powers of the central executive authorities. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u124	I'd like a comment from the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u125	Because according to article 7 of the law's adopted committee, the lawyer confirms the level of language or school attestation, where there is any evaluation of the Ukrainian language, or the certificate, if there is no certificate, this amendment was rejected. Thank you. But we don't mind voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u126	Thank you. And please vote on the 1998 amendment. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[11:35:48]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment. Already, my friends, we've made 2,000 adjustments, which I'm very pleased with. We're moving very quickly before the final vote. And the 2001 amendment, this is the author of Nestor Schuffric's and Mr. Germany's team. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we've already come with you to the Cabinet of Ministers. I get it, I get it, so far it's not the State Service Act or the Central Executive Authority Act, where it's clearly written where and what language it speaks. I'd like you to look at that we already have half the Cabinet of Ministers -- these are political figures that don't have labour legislation. Do you know that or not? These are political figures. And we're talking about what -- what's the unresolved question of using public language in the Cabinet of Ministers? Well, that's funny, it's also in the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and in the Law on Central Executive Authorities, and in general the concept of the Constitution, there is article 10. What are we talking about? For such men from the authorities of the Cabinet of Ministers, and we're here about something.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u128	15 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u129	And we're running a trade for what: to put it there, in this law in the future, who thinks so? It's unnecessary, it doesn't fit in any of the legal frameworks. Let's see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u130	Thank you and we'll be grateful if we're going to talk about the substance of the amendments. You know, I'm the biggest appreciater here to listen to the idea of amendment. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u131	Thank you, thank you. My dear colleague, the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine states that members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should speak the state language, but it is not noted how this is being checked, and it is now written. However, the order of the testimonies is also provided for by this law. So in this case, we're making references in the Kabmen Act to the Language Act. As a result, your amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Please identify yourself after the 2001 amendment. [[11:38:34]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. The following amendment of 2002 was also made by the Sufrich and German groups. And please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u133	2002. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to what the reporter here said and admitted that this whole issue is settled. But a national commission is being set up here, not to do exams, but to ensure that the order in which the language is used is as set out in this law. And that's a little bit different than what the reporter says. And I would like us to step out of the institution before us when we look at it. It's a state institution. This is a state institution that itself is obliged to ensure that the application of Article 10 is implemented in an inescapable manner. What do we say? What is constitutional must be even more constitutional. That's what it sounds like. Please tell me where the state's threat is in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u134	Finish up. 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u135	Where the threat is, name it. You heard yesterday that I didn't put emphasis on Ukraine or Ukraine, and here they say you should say you're sorry. Well, you can imagine, it's just an accent, and what happens then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u136	Thank you. You know, Mr. Germany, I think you're only being supported by the room right now when you're changing your Ukrainian for the better. I haven't seen any reprisals in this room yet. Please, Mr. Knieżicki, have a word to comment on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u137	Thank you. It says here that the first sentence of part one of article 7 should be supplemented by the words "according to the level determined by the National Commission of Ukrainian Standards." A colleague of Germany suggests that the amendment be excluded. The committee did not agree to expel the amendment. Moreover, since it is not the Cabinet of Ministers that appoints members of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is the Supreme Council. This is a procedural article that regulates what is already being written in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u138	Thank you. And please vote on this amendment. [[11:41:20]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment of 2003 to your honorary colleague, Mrs. Helena Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, in section VIII, paragraph 2.42, Transitional positions, I propose that the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" be replaced by the words "central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." The committee proposes that the first sentence of part one of article 7 be supplemented by the words "according to the level determined by the National Commission of Ukrainian Standards". It's my standard proposal to change those powers and not give it to the National Commission on Ukrainian Language Standards, but to use the existing resources of the Ministry of Education and Science, the National Commission on Questions. other national bodies that are involved in both standardization of Ukrainian language and in the assessment of the quality of knowledge. Therefore, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u140	Thank you for your clarification, dear colleague. And I'm asking for the position of committee head on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u141	Thank you, dear colleague. We have really debated a lot about which body should testify and control the level of language, and what body should develop the standards of national language. According to the committee's accepted concept, it's the National Commission. And since you have indeed had many rights, we respect and respect your view. But most members of the committee made a different decision, a different structure for testifying to the level of Ukrainian. That was the reason why the amendment was rejected. But the committee doesn't mind putting it on the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u142	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself after the 2003 amendment. [[11:43:18]] For-9 The correction is being rejected. The next one is 2004, which is also an amendment by the Sufrich and German teams. And Mr. German's word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u143	First of all, we ask you to rule it out, this position that we're talking about in this amendment. And the second. I would like to say that, indeed, what a colleague says about what we have is an organ, an educational and scientific body that foresees its functional responsibilities, to test precisely the kind of conformity, knowledge, and everything else. And the second. With regard to the State Certificate. Look, you're changing, changing 19 laws, and you're each writing about a government certificate. Put it in the material part, not in "Transitional positions," or say it once, dear colleagues. Who worked there? I understand it's not the legal committee that worked here. Why are you duplicating? 18 duplicates. You're polluting the bill. Let's just rule this out. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u144	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u145	Thank you. Among the drafters of this bill and its previous versions are prominent lawyers. One of them, when he worked, was not the judge of the Constitutional Court, but he is now the judge of the Constitutional Court, Sergey Petrovich Headate. Another professor, Vasilenko, who is now also a judge of the Constitutional Court. Vasilenko was not, but he worked in international organizations, an experienced lawyer. Other judges of the Constitutional Court helped us to work on the bill. And when the judges of the Constitutional Court help us work on it, we can't deny them, it's like you don't trust them, Vasil Ivanovich. You're an honorable man, we're listening to you, but in this case, the committee thought that this amendment of yours was just a sad mistake that you made with your colleague Schufrich, so it was recommended not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u146	Thank you for your clarification. I even think it was Shufrich who probably made a mistake, and Vasil Ivanovich was not the author of this amendment, just signed it, because, as Mr. Knieżicki rightly said, we trust you. Vote for this amendment, please. [[11:45:55]] For-7. Let's move on. This amendment is rejected. Ms. Olena Sotnik does not insist on the next amendment. Thank you. 2006 amendment. So is Germany, Shufrich. Please give me your word, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, when it comes to such an institution, where we can do control functions by a subsidiary law, and this law for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers is not a basic law and is not a purposeful special law, is a special law on this body. And so to speak of the primary being the law on the functioning of language in relation to the operation of any state institution. This is an unfaithful messenger. And that's why we think that this position needs to be ruled out. We can't do this particular thing that's in this bill, that's duplicated standards, duplicated, duplicated, duplicated and nothing else. The more you talk, the more you remember people who do not have a second language, and the more you have a language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u148	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u149	And regardless, it's an official procedure or an informal procedure. That's what this is about. And that's why we'd like you to listen and rule out this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u150	Thank you for your clarification. Please, I very much ask the committee head to comment on this amendment right now. I'll remind you, 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u151	Thank you, colleague. Dear colleague, well, you know that the duty to speak the national language is already in existence in many bills. This bill defines the mechanisms for how this property is to be certified. That's why there's a reference here to these bills. And that's why the committee didn't support it. And, Your Honor, please give me the floor with the next amendment to 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u152	Thank you, Sir Michael, for sure we won't fight. Everyone will be happy in this room. All of them. And now we're voting on the 2006 amendment. Please. [[11:48:41]] For the 10th. The first one, under the transcript, came to me about the award, about this amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't shout, my friends! You were so happy that I came and you're already starting this, it's not so happy anymore. You'll find a way to identify yourself with your emotions. Dear colleagues, let me announce the following. The 2006 amendment received 10 votes. It's deflecting. Then the amendment is 2007. We have here a letter from Mr. Papiev asking him to give him a word on a series of amendments. At the same time, we cannot usurp authority in this session room by one national MP, and we must give all the national MPs who ask for an amendment. So now we're going to compromise: we're going to give the word to Mr. Papiev and then to Mr. Princely, who's going to comment. Please. And don't shout, make sure you're happy or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u153	Thank you. Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrically, thank you for your tolerant, considerate conduct of the session and for giving Ukraine's national deputies, regardless of their political preferences, your word. But with regard to this amendment, I want to turn it over, and that's the norm of this table. The reporter should not tell us something he thinks he thinks today. But I don't care what he thinks. We have before us a table to be formed according to the Rules. And there's, in the table there's a column, a bill proposed, that's an editor of the Main Committee. We're talking about amendment number 2007 and it's written that it's counted. And it has the essence of replacing the words "high school" with the words "high higher education." But there's no committee at all. Why did Mikola Leonidovich do this? Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u154	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u155	There is every reason to say what the reporter has done today and will report to us a table in the form that provides for the falsification of this law at the time of its completion and completion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u156	I understand your position. Please comment to the committee head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u157	Thank you. I would ask a colleague to speak for the rights and not to express here the assumptions and methods of work that these colleagues themselves use, not to refer them to others. Because the table is absolutely correct, and even the author, the MP who's asking the question right now, it's clear that throughout the text, it's about changing the words to "Places of Higher Education." I mean, bring this law to the current Education Act. And so I ask, but then in the second paragraph of this amendment, it says: the proposed changes to article 48, the word "higher education" should be replaced by the words "high higher education" in the previous paragraph. So I ask you to put this amendment for confirmation without the second paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u158	Thank you. Please bet on the vote, request of the committee head, please identify yourself. It's a compromise, it's a compromise, Mr. Mikhail. No, no, I can't afford to break the Rules, you know. [[11:52:12]] For-22. No violation of the Rules, and we move on. Amendment of the next 2008. The most active copyrighted group in Shufrich and Germany. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u159	Thank you very much. But what I'm saying is, if we didn't get active, you didn't set the point. Look, the proposal was, and what kind of an editorial is being put into the discussion on this amendment to the committee that adopted the committee, and we find nothing here. And, Mr. Mikolo, well, find the strength to say that yes, it was a slap, well, what are you doing in front of people with your insinuations and you say, you send up to 48 articles in the next. There's nothing like 2.43 sub-paragraphs, please. And let's just admit our mistakes, so to speak. For in this is the power of every man, not just a lawyer, but a national MP. Admitting a mistake, admitting what we've done, and making a decision about self-sustainment. That'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u160	Thank you. But I don't think we have that kind of authority, Mr. Lawyer. Well, what are you calling for against the law in this room? I'm protesting! I protest as Presidium. We don't have the authority to let ourselves go here right now. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleague, I don't know how you are, with your political powers, and we have the People's Front in the patriotic political forces, and it's not accepted for the MPs to be dissolved. We can't let go of ourselves as you suggest. That's why we won't be self-dissolved. We'll be honest, decent, patriotic deputies. This amendment of yours is rejected because the issue of the use of national language in higher education is regulated by the State Language Act and the Education Act. And in this case, it's only about the reconciliation of these laws between us. Then the amendment that suggested rejecting such reconciliation was rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u162	Thank you. For the sake of justice, my friends, there is no word in this amendment about fornication. This is a completely different context. But I suggest you vote for her now, make up your mind. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:54:52]] For-9 The hall was united against fornication and did not support the amendment. And then the next amendment in 2009, that's the amendment. No, next 2010. That's the same. [[B in m in s a l in]] Aah! Excuse me! Yes, it's counted. Please, Mr. Papi's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Irina Volodymyrna, once again under the transcript, I claim that the reporter is lying. And he is deceiving not only the hall but also all Ukrainian citizens. This table does not even contain an editorial proposed by the committee, the text of this amendment, which is "accounted for" or "not counted"? That is, when they work, as always, under the table and pass the law on second reading, in fact he created conditions today, deliberately or not, let the Attorney General find out, in order to falsify this law and write here completely different texts than were voted in the Supreme Hall of Ukraine. So under the stenogram, I'm saying that in an appropriate way, with this table, we're going to have a call for possible abuse by the report on this table, because there's no final editing of the committee at all, and it's impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u164	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u165	Actually, he's talking about some stuff that only exists in his head, and I'm not going to say it any further, yes, and some of it's curved. a distorted world-wide perception. And I want us to watch the paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u166	I see. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u167	Thank you. When we were looking at line 700, we were looking at line 713, then 714 in your table, my colleague Papiev: the phrase of the first part of the first article 42 after the words "to speak the national language" is replaced by the words "according to the level defined by the National Commission of National Language Standards." Then line 715, you see, in the table: put 48 in this line, 718 and so on. Dear Chairman, well, there is no Supreme Council Head, I know that you have worked together to reform parliament, and we will ask not only Ukrainian language courses to organize, but also courses for some deputies to read tables. Because it's particularly unfortunate that such respectable colleagues, they always say they're doing something under the table, the table should read, look at the standards that are written there. I'm sorry. Moreover, the members of the regulatory committee are somehow not so prepared for the parliamentary work. But then we'll get together, we'll learn how to work with tables, we'll work together effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u168	Thank you. I'm betting on confirmation now, to vote on the 2009 amendment in full terms. Be determined, colleagues, please. [[11:58:01]] For the 15th. The amendment remains with the committee. Dear friends, we now have students from the 2nd class of the 53rd century on our traditional tours to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Look how cute they are, they're beautiful. They all speak English beautifully. Dear students in the 2nd grade of 53rd School, now Parliament is working on a very important law on ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language, and we hope that we will help you learn Ukrainian better. And our advice to all of you is never to go to school, do not do what some Ukrainian national MPs do. Guys, it's good to see you. We're continuing our work now on the amendments. And the next amendment to the Ukrainian people's deputies who don't walk through parliament, they're good, they're Nestor Schuffric and Mr. Germany. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u169	It's about 2010, I get it. Dear colleagues, we ask you to exclude the positions where such a framework of conduct is established for the director, for the Rector of higher education institutions, whether it is state or non-state. So let's do some field of activity, some field of application. Then write that all without exception or you can just state, and whoever applies it and then comes up with the idea that some cleric is high - ranking, he himself will interpret these rules of law. And where that leads to, we know all of that. And that's why we ask, respectfully ask, and that the children hear, "The opposition platform is for life," asking them to exclude this position, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u170	15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u171	the burden of unconstitutional character, because in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine all of this is provided for: standards of conduct, and conversational activity is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, for one minute, I'm continuing our session now to give the floor to the honourable committee head and to vote on this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u173	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, here are the children, I think teachers too. You can see how the bill is made. The law states that school principals and higher education institutions should speak the national language. And that's normal, but you have the head of state language, right? It's working, it's beautiful. And a colleague of Germany and the entire Opposition Block are proposing to rule out this rule so that these people don't speak the national language, so they don't understand what language they speak at all. And we insist that this norm, which is in the rule of law, remains here, in this law, so that there are criteria that evaluate these rulerships. That is why the committee disagreed with German and Shufrich. Thank you, good luck! And I'm asking my colleagues not to support this amendment, because our school directors and institutes speak and have to speak Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u174	Thank you. 30 seconds to Mr. German, because his last name was mentioned in a negative context.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u175	I want teachers and school principals to answer if they're there. There is no basis for what the reporter is saying. The question is that they are introducing an examination committee called the National Commission of Ukrainian Standards. And these are going to take the exams. Because of the lack of grammar, including Ukrainian, fines up to 8,000. That's the law you're proposing, and so the teachers know it, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u176	Thank you, thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 2010 amendment, my friends. And by using the presence of schoolchildren here, note the difficult debates under an important law, but no one is fighting, my dear. That's the way to discuss any important subject, you see! Okay. I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 2010 amendment. What do they say is a temporary phenomenon? No, I hope it's a constant high political culture. [[12:02:41]] For the four of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u177	The correction is being rejected. Friends, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a break of 30 minutes to 12 hours of 35 minutes. And we're going to start our work, continue, more faithfully, considering the 2011 amendment of Mrs. Boyko's esteemed colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for recess is over. I'm asking all the national deputies to come into the hall, get ready for work, please. And as the national deputies enter the hall, I want to read out the announcement that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So, in accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, I report on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Union "Independence and Development" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The national deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Viktorovich, was elected leader of this association. Let us welcome the new unity that has been created. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a document. So we continue to consider the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. Let me remind you, we have 74 amendments left. We'll be there, I'm sure, today to consider almost all of them, finish tomorrow. I would like to remind you that today the committee and anyone who wants to know what a key compromise is going to be in the law's final proposal will be able to clarify it by a document that will prepare the committee. Tomorrow at 11 p.m. And I publicly appeal to all the national deputies of statesmen, patriots, tomorrow at 10:40 to be in the session room, will be voting on the Language Act. I'm going to publish lists of those who voted in the Voice of Ukraine, and I'm sure everyone will be responsible for this vote in front of their voters. I remind you that more than 50 percent of Ukrainians support the status of Ukrainian as the only national language. And the Ukrainian Parliament needs to be fully in line with the will of the Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian electorate. Now I want to remind you that we've finished work for the 2010 break. We've considered 2010, Mr. Mikolo, haven't we? Now it's 2011. And after the 2011 amendment, I give the floor to the author of Boyko's amendment. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2011 law suggests that in section VIII, paragraph 2.43, "Transitional positions", the words "National Commission of Public Language Standards" should be replaced by the words "central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." This is my traditional law that proposes to harmonize the rules of the law in force with the existing powers of the central executive authorities. Instead, I would like to say that no matter how technical, no matter what suggestions there are from the deputies, no national MP should have his subjective impression and subjective thoughts put above the law and interests of the Ukrainian language. So, of course, I will insist that the vote be put to the vote. But my principle position should in no way harm, as should the position of other national deputies, the adoption of this law. Please support him, and for now, support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u180	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u181	Thank you. This amendment, like other amendments by counterpart Boyko, speaks of the Ministry of Education as a testimony to the level of speaking Ukrainian. Such a view has the right to exist. But from the point of view of the committee, this should be done by an appropriate committee. Because of this, the correction was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u182	I'm voting on the 2011 amendment, and the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[12:36:43]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. I want to remind you, by the way, that the committee meeting will take place here on the third floor at 2:30 p.m., so that we don't have a conversation room that we didn't know, that we didn't know what we were voting for. Here, on the third floor, there will be a committee meeting at 2.30 p.m. under the chairmanship of Mikola Knieżick. I entrust all members of the committee to attend the meetings and to participate in the elaboration of the final version of the Language Act. The 2011 decision is not taken. 2012 Don't insist. In 2013, Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, looking at this table, there's already been a whole discussion about what the article 48 is all about. Are you again making a reference to the material part of this bill, where you write what the educational language is? So I want to tell you, here's a reference to the Education Act, article 7, article 7, part seven, so look, it's discriminatory. The question is, in general, what is being taught in the language or language of the countries of the European community. Where are the languages of national minorities? And where is the Russian language? You won't find it either. Well, that's impossible, up to 40 percent of us have Russian-speaking people.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u184	30 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u185	Russian - speaking people up to 40 percent of the population. Think about what. And the ban on studying and receiving higher education in this language is forbidden. I would like such positions to be made clear that the protection of the language of the national minority was in this law. And I'll tell you specifically as a reporter: read our suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u186	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u187	Thank you. So, article 48 says, "The language of the educational process in higher education institutions: 1. The language of the educational process in higher education institutions is the national language. 2. The use of languages in higher education institutions is determined by the laws of Ukraine "On ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language" and "On education." It's a piece of legislation that the profile committee proposed for the second reading. And a colleague's amendment. In the table this is, the amendment of colleague German and colleague Shufrich was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u188	Thank you, colleagues. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. I'll remind you, this is the 2013 amendment. 2013 [[12:40:04]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2014. This is Mr. Lucenka's repair. But he insists on giving his word. Mr. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u189	Thank you. You know, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine came, went out of session, talked here a lot of things that are absolutely contrary to the current Rules, that he is now giving the commission to hold a committee. And I want to read you article 122. In article 122, before the vote on the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general, the Supreme Council may appoint, not the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because he is a simple national deputy of Ukraine, like all of us, we have just entrusted him with the session, but the Supreme Council. Where is the Supreme Council vote? The vote of 226 votes. So now the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has actually initiated a personal, personal, abuse of his official position, violation of the 122 law of Ukraine "On Rules", which is the law of Ukraine. With regard to this amendment. I'm asking you to put her to the vote for confirmation. I urge the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to take on himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u190	Thank you, Your Honor. I would also like to remind you of the rules of the Rules, which state that the main place of work of any national MP -- whether he is in power or he is in opposition -- is the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And today, when the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to sit down, review the laws, and bring them to the appropriateness in which we will vote in the session room. Today, therefore, it will be just walking and not being on the committees that violates the rules. I would like to ask all Ukrainian national deputies not only the Committee on Culture but also the need for them to visit their committees. And all committees are to take place today, and there must be a quorum, and this is what the Rules require. Now for the 2014 amendment. I will give my word to the honourable head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u191	Thank you. The head of the Supreme Council announced where the committee would go, according to the committee’s work plan. So I don't see any disturbances here. After. Wait. Wait. Wait. Hold on, buddy. The committee is held every Wednesday and this Wednesday will be held. Once again, once the bill has been finalized, the Supreme Council is voting on the second reading of the bill. If the bill has no comments from the national deputies, the chairman of the plenary may put it to the vote as a whole as an act of the Supreme Council. And the committee we're doing, accordingly, this amendment, which is included in the committee's edition, is editorial in nature, so it's taken into account by the committee in its approved edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u192	Thank you. At the request of the committee head, I'm putting this amendment to the full extent. Please. Once again, I stress that it is necessary for deputies to visit committees. It would be right to print every day, every week, to print who walked the committee and tossed the quorum. This is a gross violation of the Rules. [[12:43:30.]] For -8 This amendment remains with the committee. Next is 2015, National Deputy Germany. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u193	Sir, I'll read it for you. Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, February 1, 1995 The State must create appropriate conditions for national minorities, the level of access to education for all levels of education, article 13, including the right to learn the languages of its minorities. And so the package you're talking about, you look at article 7 of the Education Act, which is in this bill, you see whether it's there or not, there's no right to receive education to national minorities, there's no right to receive education after the primary classes. And that is why I would like us to follow the rules of article 8 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u194	15 seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u195	30 seconds, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u196	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u197	We ratified this, the Framework Convention, as early as December 9, 1997, this should be a table book, this position when we decide about the natural rights of Ukrainian citizens, which are our citizens, national minorities, they have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u198	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u199	Thank you. I quote article 21 of our Language Law. "The language of the educational process in educational institutions is the national language. The State guarantees every Ukrainian citizen the right to formal education at all levels (primary, general, secondary, professional (professional and technical), professional higher and higher), as well as post-graduate and post-graduate education in state and municipal institutions. Individuals belonging to Ukrainian national minorities are guaranteed the right to receive preschool, primary education, along with the national language, the language of the corresponding national minority. This right is realized by the creation, according to legislation, of individual classes (groups) with the language of the corresponding national minority next to the national language, and does not extend to classes with the teaching of the national language. Those who belong to the indigenous peoples of Ukraine are guaranteed the right to study at the municipal educational institutions for preschool general and secondary education, along with the national language, the language of the indigenous people concerned. That's right. "and still by the text. So this is about the rights to education to national minorities, and because of that, the committee rejected your amendment, because we want to guarantee the right to education to national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u200	Thank you. And I'd like to make my mark on this amendment. Let me remind you, this is the 2015 amendment. [[12:46:47]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment of 2016 to the People's Deputy. So did Schuffer and Germany. Please turn on the microphone for Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u201	I'd like to ask the reporter very much: Well, don't bring this information that you don't understand. You read, it says, it provides preschool and primary education. Where's the middle one? There's nothing there but national language. And they are separate for the indigenous nations to which they are referred, Crimean Tatars. And you'll write. It says there's secondary education for them. Where are the national minorities, more than the Crimean Tatar population? True, they are given the right to secondary education. Read it. Where are the other people in Ukraine: Russian - speaking, national minorities, Belarusians, hagauses? By the way, I wouldn't use your expressions, your expressions and everything. It's a nation equal to an equal. And that's why I'd like to, and I'm pointing out that this is unacceptable, that you understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u202	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u203	understanding the unconstitutionality of the stated norm, you insist and lie to the people, to society from the stated rostrum. Look again and read: There is only secondary education exclusively in Ukrainian national language. Read article 10 of the Constitution, read international law. Who respond to their population in this way? We are under obligation to protect each person.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u204	Thank you. My colleagues, I'm asking you to invest in one minute, because there's an observation from the hall that we've been adding a lot of time to the amendments, and they often don't actually talk about amendments. So please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear the screams from the hall, but I'm calling everyone to invest in one minute. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u205	Thank you. This is about the rights to education to minorities, which are obviously guaranteed, the issue is addressed in the current Education Act. We can't use the Language Act to conflict with the valid Education Act, especially since that was the decision of the Supreme Council in the adoption of this law in the first reading. In no way will I ask those who ask questions to keep separate nations. With great respect and respect, I treat the Haggai people as well as all other nations. And, colleague, don't set aside, please contrast the nations to each other, all of us are equal, representatives of different nationalities. The committee's amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u206	Thank you for your clarification. Please be determined by this amendment, 2016 amendment. [[12:49:57]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 2018. Mr. Germany, this is your amendment. Shortness is a sister of talent, a stepmother of honor. Please give me one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u207	The amendment of Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich and Germany, yes, it is so true. Dear colleagues, I'm coming back again, tell me, this is where the reporter said it was defined in the Education Act. He's currently in the Constitutional Court Audit. And then I'm going to ask you specifically, reporter, and where were you when you said, "if they found the Education Act unconstitutional"? What we were doing for a month was the work of 420 national deputies. What will happen then? Look. And that's what's going on with criminal cases in anti-corruption. institutions, 65 criminal cases of cats under the tail. What's next? How can you relate to the Ukrainian language? This should be verified and concretely all bills adopted, should have a basis, including customary law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u208	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head on this amendment 2018.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u209	Thank you. There are many laws before the Constitutional Court, and I am surprised that the former judge of the Constitutional Court is commenting on the non-existent decision of the Constitutional Court, presenting it as a fact. There will be a decision or no, and we will react accordingly. This amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u210	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify yourself for amendment 2018. [[12:51:55]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2021. Likewise, the national deputies of Shufrich and Germany. And today the amendment will be reported to us by Mr. Germanko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, we have already moved into the atmosphere of local elections. This, including where national minorities live compactly, has their own. mother tongue, which does not match the language of the State. So we ask you first to rule out these positions. Let's not touch it, it's all there. Act on activity, electoral system -- that's all there is. And there's actually what election ballots are how to write in what language. It's all written down and settled. What's the problem? We're talking about protection, a threat to the language of the state. Kind of. Then tell us where the threat to national language is and how you will protect it. That's what this is about. Not to invent one of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u212	Thank you for explaining your correction. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u213	This amendment by the German national deputy was rejected. The point is that the local councils should speak Ukrainian, but apparently no one will require them to pass any tests, but they must have a school certificate in order to understand the decisions of the national authorities. Correction rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u214	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 2021. [[12:54:01]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment, Mrs. Boyko 2022. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, this is my traditional law enforcement policy regarding the powers of the central executive authorities. I have heard the opinion of the committee, but I would like to stress that my proposals for support for reform of government are part of the harmonization and optimization of powers and functions of central executive bodies. We propose to optimize the functions of reform, and yet this bill proposes to create a new central executive body with special status and powers not clearly distributed between the existing central executive body in the field of education and science and what we create. That's another argument I've made to support my amendment. So I ask her to put it to a vote, but once again, I stress that my subjectivity will in no way affect my decision and the decision of our faction to support the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u216	Thank you so much for explaining. Please comment to the committee head why this amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u217	Thank you. Boyko’s concept was that he had a different view of the level of state - language witnessing for the Minoswits to do so. The committee’s decision was that the committee should do so accordingly. So this amendment is rejected, but we respect the opinion of colleague Boyko, we thank her for working actively with our joint bill, and we don't mind having this amendment put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u218	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[12:55:54]] For the 17th. The correction is being rejected. The following amendment was made by colleagues Schufrich and German. Please, Mr. German's microphone. This is Amendment 2023.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u219	All right, let's get some information, respectable colleagues. The Law on Electronic Commerce is already involved. Here's what doesn't extend to some kind of relationship. I'd like to hear from the reporter what's the system here, what's the threat to Ukrainian language as a state-owned electronic commerce system? I'd like both me and people to understand what's behind this. We see, and there's ears, you can see the ears behind this. But you tell people what that means? What does this mean when such a control mechanism is introduced into the electronic system, into electronic commerce? What if it's not the Mazebin fairs that are going to work in this system? I'd like you to answer anyway. Let's rule out this law at all, not bring it here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u220	Thank you for asking. Please comment on this amendment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u221	Thank you. The amendment concerns the protection of consumer rights. The law provides for consumer rights in the purchase of goods. These rights are universal, including electronic commerce. What the article says is that the language of customer service is a national language. Enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, natural persons entrepreneurs, other operators serving consumers, apart from the cases set out in part three of this article, perform services and provide information on goods, services, including through online stores and online catalogues, in the national language. Information in the national language may be duplicated in other languages. At the customer’s request, his personal services may also be performed in another language acceptable to the parties. The subject of electronic commerce, registered in Ukraine, during his activities and in case of the spread of commercial electronic communications, is obliged to ensure that all information provided by the Ukrainian Electronic Commerce Act, including the subject matter of an electronic contract, is made available in the national language. Each person in Ukraine is guaranteed the right to receive information about goods and services in the national language. Producers, contractors, sellers in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u222	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u223	All forms of ownership provide consumers with information about products, goods, jobs, services in the national language. Such information can be duplicated in any other language. There is no conflict, so this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u224	Thank you. Colleagues, please identify yourself for Amendment 2023. [[12:58:57]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 2024, was made by a colleague of Shufrich and Germany. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u225	I'd like to ask the reporter. So it's a domestic relationship here, isn't it? You have been saying for three weeks that by no means will there be any obligation to part of a citizen’s household relationship, it is their natural right to communicate. And here, look at what it's related to, you talk about catalogues, you talk about something, and you're saying, if the consumer says, "Well, give me this thing, but write an instruction to it in Ukrainian national language." Do you understand where you're pushing this? This is blocked, even business structures are blocked under their favorite form of activity. What's not clear? Has anyone done any analysis here? Read the conclusions of your expert, the Supreme Council, what they're writing about. Read what they're writing about when they were giving an expert on the Education Act, they didn't listen to anyone, nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u226	Thank you. Please explain to the chairman of the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u227	Thank you. In this case, it's not about living relationships in any way, because selling household technology is not private communication. In the Supreme Council’s legal office, there were no comments on this article that you propose to reject. Obviously, if you make an agreement through the Internet, you sign an electronic agreement, this agreement, since it is a right in the territory of Ukraine, is to be made in the national language. If you want to buy household equipment, speak another language, the seller also has the right to answer to you in a different language. Private communication is not regulated by this law at all. As a result, your amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u228	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:01:08]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 2025, is our esteemed colleague, Mrs. Prodan. But Mr. Doubenkov asks for it. This amendment was taken into account by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u229	Thank you. Dear Ukrainians, this is what's happening. For a month and a half, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is actually considering a bill that does not actually worry the vast majority of Ukrainians, a bill on total forced Ukrainianization, a bill that repeals those guarantees that are provided for in article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which has the highest legal power and greater legal power than that law, if it does not give God, will be voted on in the Thursday that is currently under consideration. This is about the area of electronic commerce. In no way does it have anything to do with the activities of the public authorities, the local self - government authorities, or the bodies associated with them, acting on behalf of the Ukrainian people, represent the personification of Ukrainian statehood. In fact, there is a totalization of these areas, ignoring the vast majority of national minorities and, above all, discrimination against the Russian-speaking population.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u230	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head on this amendment. I'll remind you, it was partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleague, let us remind you how Mr. Germany, when working in the Constitutional Court, interpreted article 10 of the Constitution. The position of the part of the first article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which “the Ukrainian language is the Ukrainian language”, should be understood to mean that the Ukrainian language as a national language is a mandatory means of communication throughout Ukraine in the exercise of powers by the authorities of the State, local self-government (language of acts, works, business, documentation, etc.) and other public spheres of social life defined by law (part of the fifth article 10 of the Constitution) (Decision 14 of December 99). Accordingly, we prepared a law. He brings nothing new, just revealing the state status of the Ukrainian language. The article says only that if you buy, excuse me, a shampoo in a store, it should be written not in a foreign language that is not incomprehensible to Ukrainians, because their rights are as consumers, but understandable. Because if it is written in Chinese or another language, the consumer will not understand his rights. That's why this amendment was taken into account in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u232	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make up your mind. I'm putting her to a full vote, full vote. [[13:04:03]] For the five of us. The amendment remains with the committee. Please take the next 2026, Mr. German and Mr. Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u233	Well, now it's been said that he's staying on the committee. Well, I don't see any committee editing here. That's the first one. There's no dot. And I want to. Mr. Reporter, well, one day I'd like to inform you that there are no former judges of the Constitutional Court, there's a judge of the Constitutional Court in retirement, and then there's a judge. Three times, three times, you call the position false, the honorable position of a judge of the Constitutional Court. And the second. And the second. Again, are you referring to what I wrote? Yeah, we wrote it and I signed it, it's all there, you have it. And we wrote that it's in the sphere of government, business, management, and local authorities. This should be the official language of the national Ukrainian language. And that comes out of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u234	Thank you for your clarification. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u235	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u236	Please finish 15 seconds. Please. Don't argue. Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u237	No, it's not. But I wanted to. I'd like you to stay clear of the rules of the Constitution. Don’t refer to the decision, it is clearly written, if you are referring, then make the bill in accordance with this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u238	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u239	Thank you. Dear colleague, well, indeed, you're actually the national deputy of Ukraine, but you're really the judge of the Constitutional Court in retirement. I'm sorry if I offended you. I respect your work, your contribution to the constitutional law of Ukraine, especially the honour that you have done when you took part in the vote and supported this important one. and what you did when you supported this explanation in article 10, you actually supported the creation of this Law on Ukrainian Language as a national language. This is certainly your credit. And we all appreciate everything you've done and continue to do for the approval of Ukrainian as a national language. Thank you, colleague of Germany. But this particular article of yours is rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u240	You know, that kind of unity in the hall, that kind of politicalness that makes the heart happy and sing. I'm asking you to decide on amendment 2026, my friends. I'll tell you, the atmosphere is much more fantastic than when the language law of Koleschenka-Kivalova voted. There were certainly no such compliments. [[13:06:59]] For the five of us. The correction is being rejected. But how many warm words were at the author’s address. The next amendment is 2027, and so is Shufrich and Germany. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u241	I'm talking again about where this bill is coming from. When I said that the only place that was protected was the bedroom, I'll tell you that we'll be there by the end of the discussion, and you'll hear that there'll be a commitment in the bedroom. You've heard of fornication being spoken of here. I understand when it's a woman, but I don't know what that's supposed to mean when a man says it, the more a reporter. Is it, like, a confusion in something or something? I would like us to keep this irony to ourselves in this regard, including my work to the judge of the Constitutional Court. We really created it, this institution, for the first time in Ukraine, we were the 33rd in Europe. Just so everyone knows. And we started from scratch, Your Honor. And these smiles, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u242	15 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u243	If I were to ask and ask Nestor Ivanovich and I to exclude this position, look, what is it, in the future or in what? The contractor, the supplier, the owner, the operator of the store or the catalog, the owner of the domain and everything else – what is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u244	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u245	Thank you. Dear colleague, well, really, well, in my words there was no irony, but only a sincere appreciation for your work, and this is your decision that we even sent to the Preamble of this law. In fact, we consider you even to be a coauthor of the Ukrainian Language Law, and we truly thank you. No irony, I'm absolutely honest. As for your amendment, we really think that information about goods and services should be available in the national language, and that's why this amendment was rejected by the committee, because, as I said before, if people don't get goods and services, sorry, they're going to buy some product where something incomprehensible is written in the language, then they're going to get poisoned, because this life of people depends on it to be understood in the Ukrainian language, so we wrote it. Thank you. And your amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u246	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 2027. [[13:09:48]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment of the 2028 People’s Deputy is the same as Shufrich and Germany. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u247	Germany. Dear colleagues, well, again, well, that's not even funny, I'll tell you, it's not even funny, it's just bullying, bullying the work of the Supreme Council. I propose that if such bills are to be drafted and so willing to create an institution for human control, total control of people of a binding nature on the natural use of their language, this is nothing more than human abuse. Believe that there is every reason to speak of the death of the Russian language and the languages of the national minorities. And so I'd like to ask again, well listen, read, learn norms, practice, read the law in Poland. If you find something like that out there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u248	Thank you. I'd like to comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u249	Thank you. My dear colleague, look, you and your colleague Schuffritch had claims to say, "Seller, supplier, owner and operator of an online store or catalogue and domain owner." Since the previous amendment was previously edited, we did, in fact, just another correction. I would like to quote you on an editorial recommended by the Supreme Council. Article 7 complements part five of the following content: "The procedure for the application of national and other languages in electronic commerce is determined by the Ukrainian Act on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language." So neither in Russian nor in Russian, if you speak Russian, as you say, obviously we won't let you die. We care about the existence of all languages in Ukraine. Even in the Television and Film Act, we allowed ourselves to use Russian or any other language other than Ukrainian. So there's no threat to Russian. But this amendment was rejected for these very reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u250	Thank you. Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[13:12:24]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment, 2029 Shufrich and Germany. Please. Oh, it's counted. Next amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] For discussion? No, I don't mind, I do. Okay, you want to talk about your colleagues' amendment? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on the microphone for the People's Deputy. Amendment 2029.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u251	Thank you. I'm not going to make this offer for confirmation, because it's a proposal from my colleagues from the Opposition Block. I just want to insist on one thing: that no matter what you're treating here right now, what kind of triumph you're declaring right now, you realize that you don't have much left, even if tomorrow you're going to adopt this bill in an anti-constitutional way. You're talking about the previous bill, the basic principles of state policy. But the Constitutional Court found it unconstitutional, not because it did not comply with the Constitution, but because the adoption procedure was violated. Same thing you're doing right now. When tomorrow, Mr. Mikolo, you will be here from the rostrum to announce the proposals that will be considered on your main committee of profile today at 3 p.m., it will be a violation of the Rules. And believe me, "The Opposition Block" is going to be seeking annulment, recognition of this law as unconstitutional, because it really violates article 10. As for the previous bill, he answered the European Charter for Regional Languages and Languages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u252	Thank you. Colleagues, if we take the floor to discuss the amendment, I ask you to discuss the substance of the amendment, not the work of the committee. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u253	Thank you. First, the Constitutional Court repeals the laws only because of unconstitutionality, not because of a violation of the Rules, to your knowledge. And all the laws that have been repealed by the Constitutional Court have been annulled by a non-personal vote, you know that. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, colleagues, as long as we have left. I respect your omnipotence and your vision, but since I am a man of faith, I think the Lord God knows how long I have left. I wish you good health and that you will have as long as possible and a hundred years to live, so that you will be well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u254	Thank you. And we're moving on. Amendment 2031 of the People's Deputy. 2030, but me. Mr. Dudenkov, I urge you, as such, to obey the Rules, to go solely on the body of the amendment, to discuss the body of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u255	Based on the fact that there's a very long term, there's a lot of people out there who've said it, not just after. I'll make it right, of course, I'll tell you, don't worry. The amendment is that this amendment, and I'm not going to put it on confirmation again, and I want to talk about it, this proposal. It is that this Law on the Principles for the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language is constantly being referred to as inappropriate, since the Ukrainian language is a national language in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And here's to discriminate against other languages in terms of electronic commerce, which we're talking about now, by the way, in terms of the area of domestic services of the population -- it's unconstitutional. I, Mr. Mikolo, when I said "remained," I was talking about political perspectives. As for the motivational part of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with the Constitution, the Constitutional Court declares unconstitutional if the Constitution or the adoption procedure is violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u256	Thank you for clarifying your position. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u257	Thank you, colleague. It was in this amendment that no reference was made to this law. In this amendment, we ruled out, at the suggestion of your colleagues German and Shufric, the article 7 of the Law on Electronic Commerce. And the Constitution does not prohibit Ukrainians from providing information on goods and services in Ukrainian. As far as I can remember, there is no such point in the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u258	Thank you. Mr. Dudenkov doesn't insist on voting. So we're moving on. 2031 is the amendment of Germany and Shufrich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u259	Dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to what is proposed here in this law. The reporter here said that he cared so much about Russian language, including the authors of the bill, and the languages of national minorities. So what I'm saying is, it's something like, you know, like, "Absolutely the wolf of the mare left his head and his mane." That's what this is about. You're just making fun of me that way. But what I'm saying is, you've brought us back to a domestic relationship. You see, even in the electronic purchasing system, where do you send you? The buyer’s desire to do so should make it possible for the sellers to act. And if the buyer doesn't have that desire, you see what? That this treaty can be implemented in other languages. Tell me who's in control.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u260	15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u261	Who will control such contracts in this electronic system? And that's why we're asking you to rule it out. And just so she's not here at all, that's the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u262	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u263	Well, indeed, the amendment is rejected because the proposal for a contract with the consumer should be made in the national language, except when the consumer chooses another language and the provider agrees. There's no problem. And what's called a contract between a seller and a buyer is called a public offering, not a private relationship that this law does not regulate, so this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u264	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for the 2030 amendment. [[13:19:03]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2031. Please turn on Mr. German's microphone, this is his repair along with Mr. Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u265	Germany. Dear colleagues, I would like to report, but it has been said that they use the practice of international, European. Well, look, you don't have to run too far, legal protection of Polish language in public life. Read it, it's all there. This, I understand, is that the law that cares about national minorities, and it clearly states that the position where protection goes in public relations does not extend to foreign-speaking newspapers, to scientific and to creative activities. And now, look what we're talking about, science and science and technology, the law is everything, and we're bringing in a review body that is the National Council. Well, what are we doing? But look at the examples that are in the world, in the same Europe where you run so brightly, I think, in the back. And that's why I'm asking you to rule out the situation, this law in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u266	Thank you. 2031 is an amendment, Mr. Mikolo, and I would like your comment on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u267	Thank you. Well, just a respected colleague of Germany was speaking on amendment 2033, 2031 we voted, and now it was supposed to be 2032. We can vote on it and then 2032, and then I'll comment on 2033.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u268	I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 2031. No, it's 2031 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u269	32. Now we're at 2032.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u270	No, it's Amendment 2031 now, Mr. Mikolo. Please be sure. Look, I don't know why my colleague Germano was speaking, he's speaking on a lot of topics right now, but we're voting on amendment 2031. Please. [[13:21:23]] For -8 And the next amendment is 2032. Mr. Germany, this is also your amendment, and it will apply to the electronic contract. Please don't let our chairman of the committee get upset that you're not doing the right thing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u271	Okay. 2032 is about making a treaty. I'm focusing on your attention, look at the proposal: "At the customer's request, an electronic contract can be made in a different language, with the consent of the parties." So tell me, the customer's wish is his right or not his right. Then tell us on what basis you are writing the first part of this article that this treaty should include. To speak the national language, to speak the Ukrainian language? Read it! And there you write "at the customer's request." So what are you talking about? Desire is his right or duty? That's what this is about. How such connections can be made with such meaning in a law that does not recognize the legal definition of a specific norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u272	Please comment to the chairman of the committee on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u273	Thank you. Well, every single one of them. Each article first contains a general rule and then an exception. In this case, the customer's desire is obviously a percentage of the customer's right. And because of the exclusion, the customer's desire is written here. And that's why we didn't agree with your amendment to rule out this point, because we believe that if the buyer wants it to be made in other languages. And I don't understand how the honourable judge of the Constitutional Court, in resignation, says to rule out the buyer's desire to make a deal in another language. We are a democratic country, we do not forbid it. Thus, the amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u274	Thank you for your clarification. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:37]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 2033. It's about science and technology. Dear Mr. Germany and Mr. Princely, and we're the only ones who got to her. And now we give the floor to Mr. Germany as to the scientific and technical activity that he told us about and during amendment 31. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u275	I've already talked about it. I just want to tell the reporter. We had a parity deal with you yesterday. You don't have to force me into some kind of traffic, all the more talk. When I was working, you rested there in the overseas states when we created constitutional justice in Ukraine. And I would ask you not to mention it, Mr. Reporter. Please. And so I want this to be our proposal taken into account and excluded from this law, Science and Technology. I got you. It was a European practice. The better you are than they are, the authors of this law, the more that practice, please tell me then.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u276	Thank you for asking. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, the rapporteur for the amendment asked not to mention the removal of his biography. Please give a comment only on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u277	Thank you, colleague. I'm sorry if I offended you. In no way did I even have that in mind, I respect your experience and your work. This amendment was rejected because the application of the national language in science is regulated by the Law on State Language, article 22. In this case, it is only about the harmonization of these laws among themselves, and then the amendment that suggests rejecting such reconciliation is rejected by the committee. Article 22, Your Honor, I quote you, "State language in the field of science. The language of science in Ukraine is the national language. Scientific publications are published in national, English and/or other languages." Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u278	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u279	"and/or other official languages of the European Union. In the case of publications in English and other languages of the European Union, published material should be accompanied by an Annotation and a list of key words in the national language. The dissertation of persons who acquire the degree of Doctor of Philosophy, Doctor of the Arts, Doctor of Science, or in legal cases of scientific reports in case of the protection of scientific achievements published in monographs or in a group of articles in domestic and/or international peer reviews, as well as authors and opponents' responses, shall be carried out in national language or English."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u280	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u281	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u282	Finish? 15 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u283	"For articles published in international professional publications by others other than English, languages, a specialized scientist may be obliged to give a translation or article. Public protection of the dissertation. " I'm not going to read you the whole article because it's big enough, we've already voted it. But as you can understand, this is an absolutely democratic article that allows for the protection of both the national language and the languages of the European Union. You can print in the West in any language in the magazines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u284	Thank you for your clarification. And I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. [[13:27:07]] For the five of us. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2034, and so is a colleague of Shufrich and Germany. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u285	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished colleagues and a distinguished reporter, I would ask very much, but you call it, mine. That's my profession, that's my job, that's all. Well, you've read, tell us why you pointed out that in the language of the State in which you work and in the languages of the European Union. Where is the Russian language? Where is the Belarusian language? Where does science come from? Why aren't we working together? Why do you not use these languages to refer to the languages of the countries of the European Union? Why? What are you talking about in this case? Don't you see in this discrimination? You forbid learning to work on the basis of Russian sources. If you haven't been through yourself, it's unfortunately. And I have a leading organization when I was defending myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u286	15 seconds to complete. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u287	There was the International Institute of Patrice Lumumba, where they concluded what I was doing. Because that's what science is all about. You know what the publication is now forbidden to do. It's you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u288	Thank you so much for explaining your correction. And notice, Mr. Germanko, what you were talking about right now about your biography, not Princely, just now. Please, now, Mr. Princely's comment on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u289	Dear colleague, since we have signed the Association Agreement and we have a common scientific space, it is obvious that the language and language of the European Union are mentioned. Sources can be used in any language. The native language of Patrice Lumumba can also be used. If a person wants to defend himself in Ukraine, there is nothing wrong with this protection being done in Ukrainian or English, as the law stipulates, since our scientists are very concerned that Ukraine does not become an offshore science. As a result, this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u290	Thank you. Please vote on Amendment 2034, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:49]] For the The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2035, the national deputies Shufrich and Germany. Please turn on Mr. German.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u291	This is about science and science and technology. Let's move it now. What is this — humanitarian science in the sphere or what sphere? Tell me, please, these authors understand what this is about, science and science and technology. Take the terminology and read what is, these are international standards, and the specifics are there, including names. Read the Mendeleiev table, and then translate it and apply it. That's what this is about. And writing out what you write is so easy, it's impossible. But you have to see how it works, this norm, in life, what people do, how they work in science. If you think this law is going to be a progressive norm for science and technology, you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u292	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u293	Thank you. Dear colleagues, article 1 of the Law on Scientific Activities says that: "Science is an intellectual creative activity aimed at acquiring new knowledge and (or) finding ways of applying it, the main types of which are fundamental and applied scientific research; Scientific (scientific and technical) work is scientific research, scientific and experimental development, which has been carried out for the purpose of achieving scientific and technical (applicable) results. The main types of scientific activity (scientific and technological) are research, research and development, engineering and engineering, research and engineering, research and engineering, research and engineering, research and engineering, as well as other work related to proving new scientific, scientific and technical knowledge to the stage of practical use." I hope I answered your question by quoting the law. This is your correction overruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u294	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 2035. [[13:32:16]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 2036. Please turn on the microphone. It's his amendment along with his colleague Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u295	The very term "speaking in the field of scientific activity" is essentially. Ladies and gentlemen, look at this: "The language in the field of science and science and technology is the language of the state." Well, you can actually imagine the field of scientific activity today in our country of 35 million or 40 million, we don't know that? But what I'm pointing out is that the use of term or terminology in the sphere determines the circle of communication where the needs of society in scientific and technological development are being met. And spreading it by saying "in the sphere" is wrong and it's unpredictable, and we can't expect any progress from that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u296	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u297	Thank you, colleague. This area is covered in article 22 of the Law on Language. I've read what science is, it's where all the fields of science are. And when we talk about official science. Obviously, astrology does not go there. And I read you this rule of law. And this amendment of yours is recommended by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u298	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment. [[13:34:16]] For the four of us. This amendment is rejected. The next amendment, 2037, is the German National MP, please. It's counted. Come on, let's move on. Yeah, next amendment 2039. Ah, Germany. Okay. And then you. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u299	Then, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u300	Okay. Please, amendment 2037. I'd like to give the People's Deputy a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u301	Dear colleagues, there is a request that this amendment be made for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u302	Dear Mr. Miroshnichenko, I'll just point out that this is an amendment from your colleague German and Shufric. Are you sure you want to put her on confirmation? You don't want to. We're moving on. Next amendment 2039 of the People's Deputy Kiskar. Please, Mr. Miroshnichenko, I give you my word. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u303	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask Mrs. Irina to confirm this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u304	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u305	Thank you. This amendment is taken into account, is editorial in nature, and is included in the approved editorial committee. Well, I don't mind putting it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u306	I see. I'm putting it on the committee's agenda, as proposed by Mr. Knieżicki. Please be sure. [[13:36:13]] For 20 Mr. Knieżick's proposal is rejected; it remains as it was in the table. 2040. Please, the People's Deputy Miroshnichenko is asking for your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u307	Likewise, please place this amendment on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u308	Please let the committee head comment on amendment 2040.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u309	It's an amendment from a colleague of Bilozer's, I think she might comment better. No, he won't comment. Okay. If the MP insists, we can bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u310	I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support this amendment because it's just an amendment that was counted by the committee. [[13:37:04]] For-36 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2042, German National Deputy Shufrich. Please, Mr. German's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u311	Dear colleagues, we are now working in the legal field of the State Service. Today, with regard to the public service, the whole revolution, beginning on May 1, 2016, you know who was taken out of government officials, whom they didn't bring out, came up with new laws. And I want to tell you that each of the laws, and more than three in the field of public service, all of them provide for the application of exclusively state language. Why did this Public Service Act come out here? It's not clear to me or the people. Why is there a threat in this State Service Act that will not be a threat to public language as an official? Where is the threat? Why is this law raised, please tell me, I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u312	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u313	Thank you. Dear colleague, well, the State Service Act and the language appraisal is now foreseen. We just changed the certification to a unified method of obtaining a certificate. And the language requirements are now in the State Service Act. We just unify these rules in different areas. So your amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u314	I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:01]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 2043, is the same as the national deputies Shufrich and Germany. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u315	Well, you, Mr. Reporter, you're the one who just called the whole chapter a whole chapter! - predicts that they are being tested for the knowledge of the national language. What else is needed? What else is needed? I don't understand how you can write a bill, coming out of your sight, breaking all the canons of legislation! What's not clear here is that we're not going to allow this to be your specialized norm that you're distributing for everything under the kind of unification. This is no unification, your honor! Read the etymology and content of unification. This unification is precisely what it is, not by integrating the language, but by integrating it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u316	Please, 15 by the way, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u317	By way of way. And that's why I'd like you not to touch this law, please. It's working. What's wrong with you? Please do not abuse people! And we ask you to exclude this position from the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u318	Thank you. Please. No! No! Please comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u319	Colleagues, you don't need anything but unification. What is "unification," I'll read from the dictionary: from Latin unus -- one, faceio -- I'm making unification, bringing about uniformity, to a single form or system of rational reduction in the number of types of objects of the same function, the most common method of standardization. So we're actually the only standard rules for everyone. Thank you. As a result, this amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u320	I'd like to make a statement. [[13:41:17]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, 2044, was made by a distinguished colleague, Mrs. Boyko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u321	Dear colleagues, 2044. It's proposed once again, like before, to replace "National Commission of Public Language Standards" with "central executive authority in the field of education and science." Before I mentioned the importance of upholding existing legislation on a number of occasions today, I would like to emphasize and remind all of us of another norm. We have the Law on Central Executive Authorities, and part five, part five, paragraph 1, says that the central executives of the prime minister are formed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We're already talking to you about the perfect fact of creating a National Commission of State Language Standards. A rhetorical question. If the Cabinet of Ministers does not make such a decision in accordance with the current COVEN law, who will perform the functions of administration of this law? However, please put to the vote your order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u322	Thank you so much for explaining. And I would like to make a comment to the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u323	Thank you. Obviously, if the Cabinet of Ministers does not make such a decision in violation of the law, the law will not work. But the Cabinet of Ministers may not make any decision either. The law requires him to make that decision, and it will then be the political responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. We have, as you know, another concept, we thought the commission should do this, so this amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u324	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 2044. [[13:43:07]] For -6 The correction is being rejected. The next 2045 amendment, please, is an amendment by colleagues Schufrich and Germany. I beg your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u325	Dear reporter, I'd like to hear from you the legal justification that you've started to divide into castes: the type of master he has categories "A," "B" know; the bachelor, the junior bachelor -- for the position of category "B." Please tell me what it is. What are the principles laid down by the natural phenomena of conversational citizens who. You share them, you're grading, categories "A" and "B", categories "B". What are we talking about? There and there are questions about examination procedures, I understand. And please tell me exactly what the novelty of this bill is. And tell me where you wrote it. If you can tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u326	Thank you, colleague. It's not nouvelles, it's the standards that are now in force in the State Service Act. Now. They're just transferred to this law, they exist in the State Service Act. Thank you. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u327	Thank you so much for explaining. Colleagues, please identify yourself. [[13:44:47]] For the four of us. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 2046. So is the national deputy of Germany, Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u328	Mr. Reporter, that's exactly what I mean by that is that it's already written in the State Service Act. The State Service Act. And you, when you enter here, you're out of state service. Out of the way. Do you hear, yes, sir? Let's say who's not covered by the State Service Act, but he's working in state institutions, he's definitely going to have to apply the state language, that's for sure. And we stand on this as a matter of principle. But this is about another thing that you're taking from there, you're pulling and carrying, and you're uniting for all relationships, and not just for the state service of a master. Please tell me, Master of Public Service, but what are you talking about? That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u329	Please identify yourself for this amendment, please. [[13:46:09]] For two. The correction is being rejected. Next amendment 2047. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u330	Please bet on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u331	Colleagues, this amendment was taken into account by the committee. I'm putting her to a full vote. Please. [[13:46:40]] For-24 The amendment remains with the committee. Next amendment 2048. Please give the People's Deputies a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u332	Madam Chairman, please place this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u333	Dear colleagues, this was the amendment of the National MP Musia. She was included in the committee's editorials, and I'm putting her to a full vote. Please. [[13:47:16]] For-28 The amendment remains with the committee. Next amendment, 2050. Please, the People's Deputy of the Fisherman's word, this is his amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u334	Eugene Ribczynski, Glossievsky district, the city of Kyiv This amendment is mine for the National Police. Formerly in Soviet times, the police mostly spoke Ukrainian without even having a national language. And we have something now, mostly when you're stopped by the police, they're talking to you in the language of the neighboring aggressor state. So I'd like to add paragraph 2.48 to the text that I put out, not to the committee. I'd like to vote for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u335	Please put the author to the vote. Oh, please, colleagues, please comment to the committee head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u336	He, he, my comment, will be brief. I am grateful to my colleague Ribczynski for his fruitful work on the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language as a State Language. I want to tell you that this amendment is actually included, just in another article, in the edition of article 16 of the Law on State Language. But the committee does not object to putting it on a full scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u337	I'd like to make a statement. I put it to a full vote, as the author suggests, to vote. It's copyrighted. Please. [[13:48:57]] For-21 The amendment remains with the committee. The next amendment, 2052, of the German and Shufric People’s Deputies. Please, your microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u338	This is our joint amendment with Nestor Ivanovich. It refers to the fact that we actually have this bill coming to an end, the era of the construction of the police state is coming to an end. Look at the standards here: Authorized in the matter of the state language involves police officers to form a search and seizure protocol and everything else. Read what is written there to hold people accountable for their improper knowledge of the language, the improper knowledge of the Ukrainian language. These are government officials and others, basically all people, all people, all our nation, that's what we're talking about. And how, then, can we talk about the absence of reprisals? There are reprisals. Maybe it's just that at night he won't be driving until 4:00 in the morning. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u339	15. Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u340	Dude, that's not what this is about. This is an amendment that police should speak the national language. Such a rule exists now in the law. We're just setting a level that basically says that they have to speak the national language at the level of the fifth grade student. I don't see any big problems here, so your amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u341	Thank you for your clarification. Colleagues, please identify yourself. There will be no repression, only a study of the voluntary Ukrainian language. Please identify yourself for amendment 2052. [[13:51:02]] For the four of us. Colleagues, 4 "for", the amendment is rejected. The next amendment, 2053, was made by Mrs. Boyko. Please, Mrs. Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u342	Dear colleagues, continuing the discussion on the authorizations of the newly created National Commission of Public Language Standards. I would like to stress once again that according to part of article 5 of the Law on Central Executive Authorities, the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to form new central executive organs is not their responsibility as such. And as a compromise, it might not be called a "National Commission of Public Language Standards" but, accordingly, "central executive authority authorized to perform functions." Then it would be correct in relation to the Law on Central Executive Authorities, and to those tasks that are very important and that are before a new institution that we still have to create in some way, but without violating the balance of powers with other executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u343	Thank you so much for explaining. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u344	Dear colleague, under the Cabinet of Ministers Act, that is indeed the law. In accordance with this law, it is an obligation that we rely on the Cabinet of Ministers in Transitional Positions, giving a certain term for it. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u345	Thank you so much for explaining. Colleagues, please identify yourself for this amendment. [[13:52:49]] For 1 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2054. Please, Peanut. A word to the national deputy of Germany. Please, Mr. Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u346	Dear colleagues, once again, look, we're interfering with this bill in an exclusively specialized field of activity of the National Police Act. Please tell me where we allowed it. Constitutionally speaking, Mr. Mikola referred to the Constitutional Court's decision, just as the Constitutional Court stated in this case that it is inadmissible, it is illegal for one law to regulate situations that are already defined in another law. We can only decide by making additions or changes on our own, by act specifically under the National Police Act. Please tell us on what basis are we going? Give the legal basis that this is possible. You broke 19 laws. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u347	This amendment was a national MP. This amendment was taken into account by the committee in part, and I put it to the vote. This is the 2054 amendment. She was part of the committee. I'm putting her to a full vote. Please be sure. [[13:54:43]] For-28 The amendment remains with the committee. Next amendment 2057. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u348	Dear colleagues, we've already entered the Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. What else can be said? This is a special law that regulates the independent branch of power, the judicial system. What's not clear? Why will the executive branch thus control the judicial system, the work of the judges? I want to report that all of the codes, starting with Civil, Criminal, Procedural, are clearly stated here today, which is the language of the state language in the judiciary. Why are we introducing this law? To do the judges' exams? It's an influence. You've heard the President's words, you've heard the words of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u349	Please identify yourself for this amendment, please. Dear colleagues, let's be determined, please. [[13:56:18]] For two. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2058, German National Deputy Shufrich. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u350	Again, the National Commission of Ukrainian Standards appears in the judicial system. It's about judges. This, please tell me, if they are given authority, penalties applied, could it affect judges and the courts in general? Read the provisions of the Constitution, which clearly states, under no influence, there can be no action under any sauce that could affect a judge’s decision. And so I would ask, well, notice, read the international conventions on justice, read article 1 about human rights at least in 49, and you'll find everything there. Well, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u351	Thank you for your clarification. I'm asking you to identify yourself for this amendment, colleagues. [[13:57:49]] For the The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 2060, German National Deputy Shufrich. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u352	Dear colleagues, I'd like to talk about citizens, about education of citizens, and here to add "according to the level defined by the National Commission of Ukrainian Standards." What is it? What is involved in this case? Language, language! What is the bill about? What about judges, where there are examinations. That's the judge. He goes there, he gets checked out. We've already seen what we've done today, how we broke up the judicial system. They broke it, this system, it doesn't work. For the information, I'll tell you: of the 9,000 we have only 2,000 400 judges. We understand that we speak the language. They're going to do purgatory again, they're going to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-04-24-m0.u353	Please be determined by this amendment, Your Honor. [[13:59:20]] For 1 The correction is being rejected. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council, we must now put a stop to the discussion of amendments. And that I want to inform you of what I want to inform you more faithfully, colleagues. We have 20 amendments left, and that actually means that tomorrow, on Thursday, we will continue to work on them, and literally at 10:30, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can move on to the final final historic vote under the Law on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language. I want you to know that today we're stopping at Amendment 2065, this is the amendment of the German and Shufric national deputies, and it is from which we will begin our work tomorrow. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, we are on Wednesday. I'm sorry, I'm announcing this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you that today we have a day of committee work, not just the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, but all the committees are meeting today. I ask my colleagues to be actively involved in the work of their committees. And tomorrow we'll continue our work at ten o'clock. And this morning's session, I'm calling it closed. Thank you all.
