ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration! Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, ready to register? Okay. Good morning again, distinguished national MPs, distinguished media representatives, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Please register. The registration takes place by clicking on the pros button, please register. [[10:19:46]] There are 330 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, I wanted to tell you that today is our colleague Michael Novick's birthday. I welcome you, I wish you strength, I welcome you from all the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Health, family well - being, comfort, and success [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, on November 20, the world will celebrate the World Children’s Day and celebrate the thirtieth convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u2	Can I give the kids a speech? I am. Colleagues, come on, come on, we work for the kids! I'll give you motive. [[Noise Nodes]] The 30th United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, ratified by Ukraine in 1991. We have the opportunity to allow our young colleagues to speak today at a meeting of the Ukrainian Parliament. For them, I hope this will be an opportunity to feel involved in important processes of parliamentaryism in the state, as well as to draw attention to protection issues. Please come to the rostrum, Lydia David.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u3	Good afternoon, national deputies of Ukraine! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak in this room today. This year, I attended the UNICEF International Conference for Cities Friendly to Children and Youth, where we discussed the participation of young people and children in cities and communities. Many authorities are willing to consult their children in making important decisions. And our country is also actively involved. We suggest that we create platforms and playgrounds where children can freely express their opinions, develop childish self-government at all levels. First of all, it is the realization of the child’s right to be heard, as set out in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is also a benefit for the country, it is an improvement in the lives of the children themselves, allowing children to participate in the life of the city. We are contributing to the growth of active and caring citizens of our country, thereby increasing the chances of a happy future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u4	Thank you, Ledo. I think you've done a lot better than some Ukrainian national MPs, and essentially. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would like to thank our young colleagues. I think it's a nice change that's growing, and it's probably the same for us. Thank you and your success. [[B in m in s a l in]] Lyda, Lydia David’s. Yes, David's. You see, you have even been able to unify the hall around your performance. Thank you. [[Applause]] My colleagues, I don't think it's primarily a motive. For reasons we can speak every day, and our children, our future, come to this room not always. I give you my word for motive. Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko. One minute, it's motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear schoolchildren, allow me to apologize to you for the speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the Parliament that you have been waiting for twenty - five minutes to speak. And I also want to apologize to the government, who came for an hour of questions to the government, waiting, as did the servants of twenty-five minutes. And I want to remind you that the "servants" have passed a law that needs to be registered at 10 a.m. by pressing the green button. All the "old," as they call us, MPs came in on time. There were children here at 10 a.m., the government, the European Solidarity, the Voice, the Fatherland, the non-fractional, the Future, and the Opposition Platform for Life. We've been waiting 25 minutes for the servants, all of you, to begin the work of Parliament. We're asking you to calculate today's salary for all the servants and convert it into UNICEF for children's needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u6	Thank you, Irina Volodymyr. I think, yes, we should start going to work on time, and I'm glad that some national MPs are already doing it. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that, despite the traffic jams, problems in Kiev, respected colleagues need to come to work early. That's true, too. That's why. [[Applause]] Therefore, dear colleagues, let us move on to the issue of the day’s order. Honorary colleagues, pursuant to article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, are held on Friday “hours of questions to the Government. ” A meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is attended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Alexei Valeriyovich Honcharuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Conciliation Council defined the theme "hours of questions to the government." Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will answer questions about the reform of the health system and the current state of financial security for health care in Ukraine. According to article 129 of the Rules of Procedure, it is suggested that 30 minutes of interventions by the Ukrainian Minister of Health should be taken; to answer written and oral questions from MPs and MPs and groups, to take up to 30 minutes of questions by national deputies; to give one minute for each oral question and two minutes for an answer. and two minutes to answer it according to questions to the government from MP factions and groups. Dear colleagues, I invite you to the rostrum of the Minister of Health of Ukraine, Zoran Stepanovna Skaleck. Minister, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer one written or oral question from each faction and group, or written question, which political power came to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u7	Good afternoon, distinguished speaker, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Health, as part of the government, is fully ready for communication and cooperation, including reporting and answering your questions. I'd like to start with a question that so far is quite a lot in the media, and this question has actually been asked by the MPs of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life", "The All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherhood and others has also been sounded. The question was how the government planned to solve the problem of paying off health workers. I would like to inform you that all the funds in the State budget this year for a medical subsidy, which included payment to medical workers, have been fully paid, credited to local government budgets. According to Ukraine’s legislation and the Code of Budgets, the Local Self - Government Act also requires local authorities to balance the budget and thus to further fund health institutions. The state of affairs today, due to the limited responsibility of the local authorities for the organization of health care facilities, for the filling of personnel, for the organization and optimisation of all resources belonging to municipal property, has, unfortunately, not all of Ukraine’s individual health care facilities. And today's government. And today the government is in session. An additional 700 million dollars will be voted on to grant a medical subsidy to the regions to finance the debt of coverage, the debt of salaries. However, I emphasize and ask all the deputies, especially the majority, in the regions also to work with the local authorities so that it can also finance what it should actually do as the owner of health facilities in the regions. I would also like to emphasize and inform the people's deputies that this issue will be the last one this year. In fact, it was every year. And every year, we had a payroll debt, and every year, the ministry was looking for extra funds. The following year, due to a change in funding for medical care in Ukraine from April 1st to April, health facilities will carry out their economic activities on other legislative grounds, and debt will in fact be completely eliminated and will depend solely on the management skills of the director of the health care facility. And in fact, it's going to be the decision of the government today to vote for 700 million dollars, and I also think that by the end of the year, we're going to find funding from our economies for money and other budget articles in order to fund another 300 million dollars in local budgets, to add to the needs that have arisen in the regions today. The question also came. Also from the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" and other parliamentary groups about. How does the government take measures to stabilize the epidemic situation in Ukraine? In fact, everyone is hearing today, and the Ministry of Health is taking all necessary steps to stabilize the situation of measles and diphtheria. Today, the situation of providing vaccines to the population according to the vaccination calendar, that is, the child population, is purchased and sufficient, plus what is needed there in three months, where it will be sufficient. More will be needed, progress is being made with suppliers, including UNICEF. And today, the work on the supply of vaccines is being done. One of the key problems related to the epidemic is the insufficient percentage coverage of the population of vaccinated children, particularly the most frequently. In the last month, however, we have had a good increase in our work with regions, district health departments, doctors, and a conscious medical community. And so today we have a one-and-a-half increase in vaccinations compared to last year, the same period, covering vaccination for children up to a year and a half. This is a good indicator of what parents really understand, and health workers are helping to understand the need to increase vaccinations for today’s population in Ukraine. About diphtheria. I would like to clarify the situation of orphans, who are also very concerned, and many ask if they are enough. Today, they were purchased, placed in Ukraine, more loyally, 200, and dispersed in all regions by 8 ampoules. But it's not a vaccine, it's a drug that's only introduced in confirmed cases where the diagnostic, laboratory evidence of diphtheria. In fact, we still have 100 in Ukraine today and 150 other arrangements to be made. That's actually enough, because the facts we have today in Ukraine are only two dozen. Last year, 140 were used for unconfirmed cases just in case, and the actual confirmed cases were within 10. It's the same story this year. So we understand that they don't need them like vaccines, thousands, they really need a small amount. Today, we have good support from international organizations that will provide more. So the serum and I keep our hand on the pulse. Now I'm going to say that there are regions that start to panic where they don't need cheese and where they've already used it. We do. We set up a relationship between the regions so that they can pass on to each other, so that there is no one who is lying and not necessary, and in others there is actually a need. The next question. The political party "European Solidarity" was asked, "When will appropriate changes be made to the legislation regarding the introduction of insurance medicine?" Ukraine's Law on State Financial Guarantees for Public Health Services stipulates that there will be a 72 billion package of medical services in Ukraine from the following, April 1, the following year, which will be funded by an approved budget, 72 billion package of medical services, medical care that will be guaranteed to all Ukrainian citizens under article 49 of the Constitution. This means that the citizens are still alive. will be funded by the state budget of that medical kit that everyone is actually expecting to be funded today. Priority will be given to higher tariffs, completely effectively closing the need for health facilities, it's cardiovascular, it's acute heart attacks, strokes, births and neonatal care. These are the types of medical care that today are most likely to lead to either death, such as strokes, disability, or health risks. And so far we're starting to transfer health care funding just from a medical subsidy to what they're actually doing to what they're actually giving to patients who are seeking medical attention. In fact, the introduction of a health insurance model, i.e. the collection of certain insurance payments and then the payment of the insurance fund. I think that the following year will actually be offered, for discussion, including with parliamentarians, for the government, with the medical community, with the public in Ukraine as a whole, a model and which may be additional to the health guarantees programme, in order to meet all the needs of citizens today, to raise, perhaps their expectations, to meet their expectations. In the following year, I think this bill can be both accepted and considered so that we can launch, even though in pilot mode, the insurance system is additional to the health insurance program. And the health insurance program is actually going to be by direct funding us from the budget so that citizens don't worry about losing insurance or any of the risks associated with the insurance system. In what way is the Ministry planning to encourage graduates of medical schools and health - care workers to work in rural areas in small cities? Actually, I'd like to focus on a more important aspect. That health care facilities in Ukraine now provide medical care in most cases for the population of Ukraine are municipal property, and therefore the owner is local authorities, city councils, district councils. So the question of human resources is also part of their responsibility. For example, there are good examples in the regions when local authorities buy several apartments and say, "We give these apartments to those who come to work in our hospital." This is an incentive that can be much more effective in providing staff capacity in hospitals. From the point of view of the Ministry of Health, we can only work on development today, and, I think, we will consider such possibilities by developing some programs that may be offered in support of young professionals. But today it is a matter of interaction, including the budget, the budget, the ability of parliamentarians to support these initiatives. But this is already, let's say, an auxiliary role, a more important role -- it's a question of how the owner, the local authorities are willing to work on the staffing of their health measures. Decentralization in Ukraine today, especially in the field of health care, is an important factor that affects how citizens in health care establishments today receive medical care as to whether they have a schedule. And from the Ministry of Health, from parliamentarians and from the government, it is more important to determine the rules of play, the rules of aid, quality control, accessibility control, but this is a command game of local authority and central authority. The Cabinet of Ministers programme aims to reduce the number of cardiovascular cases in patients of working age by 10 percent, and among the measures in this direction is the fight against tobacco. What concrete steps are being taken to reduce smoking among the population in Ukraine? On this issue, I would like to point out that we already have an Association Agreement which provides for the implementation of the European Union Directives, and a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain laws on the adaptation of legislation to the requirements of Directive 40 of the European Parliament, namely, the protection of the population of Ukraine, the population against the harmful effects of tobacco. In fact, this document has already been agreed upon by the central executive authorities and will soon be submitted to Parliament. Specific steps proposed by the bill include regulation of electronic cigarettes and new tobacco products, banning their use in public places and selling them to minors, increasing the percentage of health warnings on tobacco packaging, banning the production and sale of tobacco products with flavoured flavouring additives, public reporting by tobacco corporations on tobacco composition, and banning tobacco advertising on the Internet. These are commitments that Ukraine made five years ago, and they are still in the process of preparation and reconciliation, but they are not accepted. Will the work of the health-epidemic service be restored in accordance with the real social need? Actually, what I'd like to say is that in the 14th year, the Cabinet of Ministers created the State Food Safety and Consumer Protection Service, which was placed on, among other things, the health-epidemic control function. Actually, this year, the sanitation service was canceled. After the eradication of the health-epidemic service in Ukraine, the function of carrying out laboratory and instrumental research and testing was placed on the Ministry of Health. But there was no change in the approach to funding these institutions that were doing these lab studies and involved in sanitary epidemic investigations. Despite the fact that the laboratory network and laboratory equipment are mostly outdated, the quality control system is also imperfect, and what is happening today is that it does not meet all the current requirements. In fact, all the problems that have accumulated, especially since the 14th year, have led us to have to change the system of financing for epidemic control and surveillance and public health institutions. In fact, there was a concept of the development of the public health system, as well as a bill to be submitted to you regarding the Public Health System Act, the need to create a new network of institutions that will carry out epidemic control, epidemic surveillance. This is actually a review of the entire system of institutions that exist today. Let me just say that there's a fairly routine work with regions about laboratory centers, how to reorganize them, how to optimize them, because they're not doing their job right now for the state, on the other hand, there are people working there, and there are these institutions. This work is being systematized today in order for regions to know how to act in the matter of optimisation of networks and laboratories, and they will be transferred to local self - government authorities. And the change in funding is that we're not going to fund the labs, and we're going to buy them a service to carry out laboratory research, and then there's going to be a question of local government how it organizes the work of these labs. Another question asked by both parties and factions was how much medical guarantees were applied. How it's going to be organized and funded. I would like to say that the health guarantees programme, voted in the budget of 72 billion dollars, includes 19 billion to finance the primary. It's actually the "prime," which still needs to be completed in the form of adding maybe mobile outpatients to cover the population, those areas that are not covered today by hospitalizations or primary care centres, where it's hard, where the population lives 400 people in the community, and where it's hard to find a doctor who's going to work there, to complement other ways of contacting the primary health care doctor, to complement the quality criteria and quality indicators for primary health care. To date, the average wager, which was 370, has been raised to 600. That's actually what so much was said and cared about by the primary physicians -- about funding. On Tuesday. On Tuesday, today, according to the State Budget, adopted yesterday, the health guarantees programme, and so the details of the types of medical services that will be financed and included in the health guarantees programme, will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In the coming month, we plan to adopt 20 different decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers for actually setting up the entire year. the provision of medical care and medical guarantees. I will tell you right now that there will be rehabilitation and palliative care (mobile and stationary) and stationary outpatient care (therapist, surgical). It's actually everything today. The following year, funding for specialized secondary assistance will be carried out under a contract that will be made up of health facilities and the National Health Service. And these contracts will provide for the types of medical care that the facility will be willing to provide. And actually, according to the reports that, how many patients have been served, which have been provided, so much money, and will be counted by the National Health Service. The only thing I want to stress for those particularly major MPs who have already worked in the regions is communication with doctors, chief doctors, next year, and the cost of medical services, which is set up in the health guarantees program, is not a tariff in terms of cost-effectiveness, it is a tariff in how we can distribute our funds so effectively that those institutions that are actually doing medical work can actually be funded for their activities by the National Health Service. This and the following year is more transient in the formation of, in fact, more accurate tariffs for the provision of medical services. I'm going to say that in order to normally count tariffs, one of the key data we need is a reliable number of needs for some kind of medical service in Ukraine. In fact, the following year it will give us the opportunity to obtain reliable data through contacts with the National Health Service, through electronic health, electronic reporting systems, which are, in fact, the outcomes that are already expected by medical workers, the cost of medical services that they would like to receive for their own. For the services provided. The following year is a transitional, complex one, but today, most regions of Ukraine have either completed or complete the phase of autonomous health care institutions, that is, the transition from a budget institution to a nonprofit utility, and thus become, they are given the opportunity to contract with the National Health Service. The second condition for hospitals to be able to contract and obtain funds is computerization, that is, the presence of at least one computer in the department. Computerization is also quite significant today, and it is intensifying. This dynamic is so positive that I think even on January 1st we're going to have a picture. Another medical guarantee program. Local authorities, according to legislation, really need to fund health institutions and fund certain local programs in general. As early as December, health institutions will be able to set up a certain preliminary estimate of how much money they receive from the National Health Service, taking into account this previous statistics of the services provided. This means that as early as December, they will see how much money will come to them. And according to our calculations, those institutions that actually did the activity where citizens actually came, whether women gave birth to children, the cost would go even more often than it did before. And in this situation, local authorities will be able to show their potential income in December. If they realize that they are incapacitated, local authorities will be able to retrain, profile, and supplement doctors by April 1. For example, we lack rehabilitation facilities, and we have a lot of places in the regions that lack one or the other. And the local authorities are coordinating, and we now have a good relationship with the Department of Health, with the governors, with you as much as we need to work so that we can all work together to help the chief physicians see our health care institutions as much as possible on resource efficiency, on the use of the opportunities and doctors they have today. There were also questions about the construction of ambulances. These funds have actually been allocated, and there's over one billion dollars in Minregionbuds, and these fund balances from the past few years can still be used to build out ambulances. But the regions have to actually figure out where they need these outpatients, how much they actually want to apply for it. About telemedicine. Telemedicine in certain regions is now developing much more intensively. We have good, already exemplary areas, there are, in which very little attention has been given. So today in the MoH, we're developing the only rules in decentralization, which is what regions can do today, some algorithms of action, some methodological recommendations, how best to organize this help on the ground. I can go on, I can't go on. Nobody cares. Come on, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u8	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues. I'm sorry. Consideration of issues before the government from MP factions and groups has been completed. Let us turn to questions to the government from the national deputies of Ukraine on a specific subject. If you would like to sign up for a question. Dmitri's Oksana Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u9	Good afternoon. Mrs. Zoriana, how is a transplant made in Ukraine today, so that our citizens who need transplants do it in Ukraine and they don't have to use huge amounts of money abroad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u10	That's a long time, and two minutes is not enough. In fact, in 28 years there have been isolated cases where good doctors in the hospital have initiated certain or other actions. Today we are talking about the need to systematize this work. We've got it. Systematization of this work is, in particular, in drafting the bill and I, we've been helping as many people as we can in preparing it. But right now I'm saying we have two blocks of transplantation. One is organ and tissue transplants: professionals, equipment, the system of withdrawal, talking to the population about the need to give organs, to be donors. This is a serious lot that we already understand how we can organize it, and for the next year 120 million dollars have been allocated, and we can launch this system, first of all, the creation of a logistics and coordination center for the distribution of information, these are donors where there are recipients, and how we should organize it. But there's a second, no less important, and for Ukraine it's more expensive today -- it's a bone marrow transplant for which we send a significant number of our children and adults abroad. This part of the transplant in Ukraine is also, in fact, likely to be even faster than even organ transplantation. We are currently negotiating with international organizations that can help us today to obtain the necessary materials and to set up internal regulations today, including the identification of facilities where we can conduct such a transplant. For today, I will be very grateful to Parliament if Parliament supports changes and, in fact, support for this process of transplantation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u11	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u12	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Please say, literally, your predecessor had a lot of questions before the crust bursts, today the diphtheria broke out in the country. Why is there no hospital vaccination today? The second question. 80 million dollars coming from our foreign partners, how will they be and when will they be sent? And the third question. Why is the MOH today buying drugs for Ukrainian money and for laying? Next. There are many stories when today’s speedboat does not go on the challenge to people at all! When will this end? Next. Explain what people will get when a program of medical guarantees is in place. The following year or when will it even work? Thank you. Sergei Shahov, Luganshina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u13	Thank you. I have two minutes for everything or for every five questions? Two for everything? Then yes. The World Bank's money. We plan to negotiate and release insulins. create a system to fight strokes, because we don't have a normal network today. By diphtheria. The vaccines are enough, you probably meant raw materials, but I already said today that serums are only needed when there is a confirmed laboratory case of diphtheria, and in fact there are not many in Ukraine. About international purchasing organizations. The following year, from January 1st, we will actually make the necessary changes to the laws in order for the Ukrainian purchasing organization and medicines to work directly in Ukraine and help do so for both hospitals and the Ministry and the government. Fast for today, actually. One of the questions of the organization. One of the government’s goals is to save lives. And saving lives isn't just a transplant, it's also a way of managing emergency medical care. Emergency medical care is a number of components, it's not just machines purchased, but we also put them in the budget next year, and thank you very much for saving that amount, but it's also a matter of dispatching, setting up the work of the dispatcher. Today we have a stage. Since the 12th year of the reform of emergency medical care, the construction of a normal dispatch service has not been completed. Today we have some decisions and we hope to make them by the end of the year. And the cars again. One more. Next, 20 seconds. We've got it. When emergency medical care comes out, these are exceptional cases, such as accidents and acute conditions. In all other cases, we need to adjust our work today so that people can receive medical attention, perhaps at least as a family doctor’s support. And we're going to work on that, too, and we're going to work on this order. Well, the program of medical guarantees will be approved by the Kabminu decree, which will describe this entire list, as I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u14	Rušin Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Olga Stefanishini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u16	Olga Stefanisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u17	Good afternoon, Mrs. Star! I have a question for you that concerns a very large number of sick Ukrainians. On November 15, the Ministry of Health did not sign a series of contracts for the purchase of medicines for children with hemophilia, hepatitis, adult haemophilia, pulmonary hypertension, and other serious diseases. As of November 15, no purchases were started for 2019. We stayed for a month and a half until the end of the year, when this money just burned down, the cost was over a billion dollars. And I very much ask you from this rostrum to promise all patients that these costs will be used and they will not be left without medication next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u18	Actually, I'm going to say that, and I'm going to share my, let's say, with my deputies, my concerns. When I came to the Ministry, I thought that in three years of international procurement, we had a well-established job, an algorithm, and a systematic ministry on this issue. Unfortunately, it turns out that this is completely in manual mode, which has a very chaotic and unsystematized character. Today, in less than three months, after conducting a series of talks, a series of working groups, a series of information gatherings, we are now at the final stage of identifying all the necessary information in order for all the necessary agreements to be signed. Every week, meetings are held with the international organizations of Ministry employees to adjust all of this work related to the purchase. To date, when the money was withdrawn from, and at the previous payment for 2017-2018, and not only 2019, but also for today, normal purchases have not been made, and we also do them, because we cannot afford that money to not be used properly for Ukrainian citizens. So to this day, we are doing all the money that has been allocated for the purchase of drugs over the years, and we are working with international organizations. On the other hand, of course, all necessary steps will be taken. And I hope that the partners and all the others involved in this process will also help us to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u19	Jacenko Anton Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u20	Madam Minister, I have a few questions for you. The first question is transplantology, 133 people are currently awaiting funding. Will it be in the 19th year, or will people just wait again and be between life and death? The other one. Today we greeted the children here and it will be Children’s Day. We now have Ukraine the only country in Europe that unfortunately does not meet the standards and does not fully finance childhood diseases. So what I'm asking is, first, hearing aids are normal, are they going to be, or are they going to be for kids? The second is a cohlear implant that's with her today? The third is the Occurrences. And the fourth is the general question of orthodontic diseases. Please give a clear answer to each question because people are waiting. And let's say there's no greater wealth in the country than our children. So we would very much like to move on from the budget that today increases the salaries of judges, lawyers, and others rather than fund children. We have to do it the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u21	I fully support your opinion on the concern for future Ukrainian generations. The role of the Ministry of Health in the context of motherhood and childhood In today’s world, all activities involving children and financing, including orphan diseases, and the ability of the government and parliament, including, in the budget, increasing the number of purchases, central drug purchases, including children’s orphanages, to cover this need. The same is true of the occluders, too. Next year we have to do two things. On the one hand, by increasing funding; on the other hand, by changing the cost mechanisms so that they are as efficient as possible for us and we can even save and provide everyone who needs them. Unfortunately, today, I'm also going to say that it's very questionable and unworked, and not completely accurate, the distribution system of what we're buying at the central level, because we just need regions, we miss it, we buy it and we distribute it. We have no clear contact, or really the person we needed. I didn't hear. What transplant?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u22	Don't scream, please. Yatzenka's microphone, turn it on. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Head, one more question. Cohlear implantation and hearing aids Please give me a clear answer as to what is going on there. So these are two questions: there are cheap hearing aids and there's a cohlear implantation, which if the child doesn't have surgery before.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u24	Yeah, I know this story about what we should do best in the perinatal centers right once. And then the necessary intervention is two. Today, one of the four priorities of NHRIs for increased funding is perinatal assistance. As far as hearing aids are concerned, it's a question before, as far as I know, the Ministry of Social Policy. But let's see, I'm going to take this question apart in order to get it under control. As far as the transplant is concerned, we still found 200 million dollars from a certain economy to finance treatment abroad for hundreds more of our patients in line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u25	Bardina Marina Olegnowna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u27	Again, who?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u28	Lady Bullach.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u29	Lady Bullach, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u30	Star Stephen, I want to say that we believe in you and we support you very much. And my question is, it's not easy, because of course we're worried about emergency care, the first medical care to save lives, and that's the first goal of your team and your new ministry. I have a question about palliative aid because a person with a limited life forecast also has a right to its dignity and quality. How are you doing in the mode of reforming the Tuesdays, still giving birth, to building political aid in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u31	On the subject of palliative aid, I will say that this year, next year, two separate types of health care are funded in the budget: palliative aid stationary and palliative assistance -- mobile brigade home. Mobile brigades are more needed today in Ukraine, since most citizens want to be at home or their parents want to take care of their relatives at home. And today it's one of those fundamental changes, because they used to be funded only by wages or local programs. This is a significant step forward in providing political assistance to Ukrainian citizens. Another thing that we're going to do next year is study and review is actually get painkillers from individual programs: either reimbursation, or electronic recipe. That's what's going to work out, because we understand that one of the biggest problems is access to annihilation, and the maximum structural answer to that question has to be done, and it's going to be done. It is now being prepared to make changes to the regulation on the granting of palliative aid, namely, the correction of the things that today have shown in practice that they need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u32	Kovalov Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u33	Kovalev Alexander. I give the floor to Sergei Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u34	Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u35	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. You're sorry, you'll think I'm attacking you, you're only working for two months. I just want to warn you not to make mistakes like those of your predecessors. Tell me, please, and you know that there is no cancer center in Luhansk today, it's been put up for repair, and 18 doctors working today don't work. And people from Great Luhansk go to Lugansk to be treated. 18,000 oncologists today do not receive help. In my foster home, 40 people are added each month who have cancer. This is a terrible disease that has taken over our nation in general today. There are problems in every area. Oncological diseases are, in principle, the ecology of our state. And secondly, please tell me, do you control the problem of today's drug trade with chalk, and when will it end? And you didn't answer the question when the purchase ends today because of the bookies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u36	Let's do it again, about buying drugs. The purchase of drugs, as of January 1, we are now making all necessary legislative changes and regulations, too, to make purchases happen. (you'll then question again, well), the purchase was done through the Centralised Ukrainian Procurement Organization, and so most of the drugs went through the Ukrainian budget system. The only thing that is possible, and we must also determine by the government what kinds of medicines or vaccines we will be carrying out through international organizations next year, because it is not yet registered in Ukraine and can be purchased. But this is a question of how the Central Procurement Organization works now. Oncology. In fact, according to the oncology, the change from April 1st to the financing of health - care facilities will mean that we will not have to finance a facility where no one comes from or finance a facility where people from another institution come from. The following year, if more patients came to the facility than was planned for medical subsidies in the 19th year, 20 percent or 100 percent more, there would be money coming in, and this facility would be able to develop and raise wages, encourage workers, hire more workers, and actually become that center, more strengthened, and qualified oncology assistance, including. As far as the quality of the medicine is concerned. As for the quality of the drugs, one of the tools that is being developed today, and we're going to rebuild it further, it's actually an evaluation of the quality of the drugs, the introduction of certain tools that will enable us to control the registration stage and use them in the system to make us have. And this is one of our tasks: to control the quality of medical care, medical care, and to control the quality of medicines. Today we know that such instruments can be implemented in Ukraine, and we are actually working on them right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u37	Makarenko Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u38	Macarenko. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me from 2015, out of the 2,000 200 hospitals, there are 1,000 700 hospitals left, of the 217 thousand doctors currently 186,000. And the third question is this. How will you answer me, what is your view of insurance medicine? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u39	Two minutes? Okay. Thus, the decline in the number of health - care workers in Ukraine today is taking place with several aspects. The first is that, in fact, we have quite a lot of health workers who are pre-retirement and retirement workers, and they're being released, and the facilities aren't being properly filled. But the second, and more systematic, answer to this problem: In 28 years in Ukraine, there has never been a government strategy, either a policy, or a health - care program. And the absence of this human resources policy has led to the fact that things have been chaotic, who has defined the specialties, who has determined the number and so on. I've been here for the past two months. For three months, she's had quite a negotiation with experts who are ready to develop such a policy, and then we'll see a three-, five-, fifteen-year program of how we'll provide our facilities with doctors. In this situation, the Ministry of Health only has questions about the determination of government orders to study in hospitals, in medical universities. At present, this is a question of the area of responsibility of the local authorities, who are the owners of health institutions, who can, as a matter of fact, motivate medical personnel from the point of view. From April 1, the following year, the tariff network will not work for health facilities. Since the following year, we will not be able to tell how and what is to happen, all of this will be the responsibility of the local authorities and the head of the health care facility and, in fact, the responsibility of the local authorities. I forgot, I forgot the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u40	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u41	Oh, insurance. So insurance, today we can talk about what it might be a combined model, when we have a program of health guarantees that we've funded, guaranteed everyone, the population knows exactly what it's going to get is a set of diagnostics, medical services, medical care. And in addition, I think we can create an insurance system, a health insurance that can be funded by the state for certain categories of citizens or citizens. All of this we're going to design and actually introduce to you, and we're going to make this decision with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u42	Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u43	Mrs. Zoriana, please tell me that there is now a huge problem with the involvement of young doctors in rural areas. In your report, you have stopped there and you see the solution to this problem through the help of local communities. So I'll tell you, as a major deputy, I represent Poltavščina, the local communities are willing to finance housing, but who's going to go to the countryside when there's a massive reduction in the district hospitals based on the fact that funding, which was through the National Health Service, including in Poltavščina, through the pilot project, is almost enough for wages and energy? Who's going to work at the FAP when there's absolutely no funding? So how do we get out of this situation? How are we going to get young specialists involved, and is there any program at all, and you have a vision as a minister, how do you decide that? Because if we don't get the funding back now, we're going to lose the district hospitals, lose the FAPs, and lose our young specialists in the countryside. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u44	Thank you. Actually, let's just look at how people who make government decisions for all citizens. We want money to be spent on medical care, so that people really get treatment, or just to finance institutions? Today, we are changing the model: when money is given where medical care is provided. That's why we don't hit the funding of the facilities. If a local authority considers it necessary for a facility to exist where medical care is not available, this is a decision of the local authorities. Central authorities, the Ministry of Health, are funding medical care. Where there is medical care in the district hospital, where people receive medical care, where they visit doctors, there will be money, and no funding will be cut. But if the hospital doesn't want to provide medical care, it doesn't do treatment, it just comes to work for tea, and unfortunately, we have these hospitals, and everyone has come and seen them in their lifetime, so let's not tell them that we're going to keep them. We're funding our citizens to receive medical care. And this is a key change to allow us to spend our resources in the budget effectively next year starting. And let's think about the citizens, not just the maintenance of the institutions themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u45	Pavlenko Rostislav Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Mary Ionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u47	One more time, if you don't mind. Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u48	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, this year you, in September months, together with the Prime Minister, visited OHMATDIT and saw with your own eyes that out of 7 blocks 2 blocks have already been put into operation, more faithfully, 3 blocks have been put into operation, 2 blocks have been completed by 95 percent. And for the 2 blocks that are planned to open up by the end of the third quarter, four oncohematic compartments and a bone marrow transplant center need 660 million dollars, which is what was budgeted for. Unfortunately, only 500 were allocated. We ask you very much to find these 160 million by the end of the year to open these 4 compartments and the center of the bone marrow transplant so that the maximum number of children can receive maximum assistance. It's too bad it wasn't all set up right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u49	So today, I have twice this week at half past six a construction organization and everything about Ohmatdit with documents to understand a more detailed, detailed plan of all stages of construction, so that we can understand at what stage each month how much money we need and to understand how and where and when we find additional funding. But it's definitely going to be, I hope it's going to be faster than even the third quarter of the 20th year. Since we still need to take the necessary steps after the construction is done to do so at least next year, it's not the third quarter, it needs to be done sooner. Today we have, I'm taking personal control and every week we're definitely going to have a meeting with them after the construction moves and it's definitely not going to be the third quarter, it's going to be much earlier. Maybe soon we'll show a new graph and we'll show you how we'll fund it and where we'll find the extra costs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u50	Ichchenko Vadim. Ivan Grigorovich Krulko. Kirilenko, I'm sorry. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u51	Madam Minister, I want you to respond very clearly to Ukrainian society for two minutes. How do you organize, under the conditions of reform and administrative and medical reform, quality and operational health care for rural people, who are now 40 percent in Ukraine? This time. 70 percent of them are pensionable, two of them. And 80 percent live in separate locations. Why are they far away? Because the territorial communities are united. Two minutes -- clearly, clearly, clearly, clearly, how this is going to be done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u52	Similarly, they had the same task ahead of them, and only from September did they start work. Today, all the necessary work has been done with the regions to find out how many of us have these separate regions and that each region sees how it can do so, since the provision of assistance is being carried out by public health institutions. From the point of view of the Ministry, we are discussing with them today several ways that they can apply to cover the rural population by providing primary health care. One of the options we're looking at today is the possibility of mobile outpatients. The second option today is actually to make certain trips by doctors themselves, or to ambulances, or to primary health care centers. For me, it is important to cover the entire population of Ukraine with primary medical care primarily in rural areas. We have several different ways that can be used in different regions, depending on how the local authorities solve it for themselves in a more acceptable way. In our view today, from our point of view, there will be a question of finding funds for, for example, the same mobile outpatients that could serve a few population locations. They're technologically today, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, It's about funding. In terms of funding, the National Health Service, in determining the rates of primary health care, has different calculations to date as to how these coefficients should be applied. But clearly the only program. Actually, we're working and working today. And I think there's going to be changes to the legislation that regulate primary health care. To maximize primary health care for health - care workers, including in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u53	Again? Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u54	Mikhailo Cimbaluk, Fatherland. Dear Madam Minister! First of all, I want to view this government as a great victory, which, finally, over the years, we have a minister of health, not c.o. It's very important. Questions essentially. Please take control of the compound in Lviv "Ohmatdit" and the Children's District Center. Local authorities want to unite them, and in fact they want to eliminate them. These centers, one of which is helping children not only in Lviv, but also in neighboring areas. And it is very sad that the Department of Health of Lviv ODA says on the basis that it will help to provide qualified medical care to children in one center alone, while others will eliminate where there are thousands of experts. The question seems to be only in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u55	Thank you. I know this situation in Lviv, I know I know, we talked to the governor, we talked to the health department. And to date, I know that the Governor himself is in control of the situation in order to ensure that medical care is provided to the children’s population of the Lviv region properly and that there is no decrease in access to medical care and to doctors working in the Lviv health care facilities. So thank you, but I know and I'm in control. I'd like to take a second and a half to say that you've been given a short presentation on the tables, which is the basis of a strategy that everyone's been waiting for so long, because we only have a strategy for changing health funding, not everything. There are some points that, for example, we are managing today, but it will be the basis of an extended document that we will definitely discuss with you all. And the second. I would like to say that the Ministry of Health is ready to have meetings with either groups or factions or with MPs on how to explain information, because health care is actually a very complex and little informed field for Ukrainian citizens. If such questions arise, please make sure that we are open to communication, clarification, or perhaps work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u57	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. Please give the floor to my colleague, Maxim Bujanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u58	Maxim Arkadyovich Bujansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, I have a question for our Prime Minister, Alexi Honcharuk, who unfortunately despises the MPs and leaves the room. I have a question about why he, in facilitating the passage to the Supreme Council of Mr. Váterović, has conspired with the "ES" faction and has given a member of the EU's list, Natalia Boyko, a consultant. I want to remind Mr. Honcharuk that we made them together in the election. And it is unacceptable to use your service position to facilitate some of the EC faction's actions and former President Peter Prashenko's actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, let's stick to the Rules and move on to questions. Peter Alexiovich was mentioned. Is it? Who. A character, with motives, a minute. Thank you, Minister. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, how does "European Solidarity" differ from other factions, especially the majority? Our deputies are personalities, they're self-sufficient people, and so are the candidates for the MPs, and our entire list is not slaves, they're not fortifiers, they're professionals, and they have the right to choose their own place of work. We are proud of our list and those who work as deputies and those who go on the list, and we want to advise all of our fellow Members of Parliament to treat their ideological opponents with respect. And to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we want to make a request. Documents have already been received for Mr. Vátrović, a national deputy of Ukraine. We demand that today. (Head of the Supreme Council, please pull away from your colleague and listen to "European Solidarity"). We ask you today to have Mr. Vitatrović take the oath of the Ukrainian national deputy. Mr. Razumkov, today!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next one. I would like to thank the government because the "hour of questions to the government" is over. And I thank the Minister for the answers to the questions, and I look forward to further fruitful work between the government and parliament. Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished colleagues. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have up to 30 minutes to make inquiries. The word is given to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Condratiuk Oleni Konstantinovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! So two questions came to us in the name of the President of Ukraine. We must vote in favour of the request at least one third of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I am putting to the vote Solomonia Bobrowski’s request to the President of Ukraine for release from prison from Nigeria of Ukrainian sailors. Please identify yourself and vote. [[11:24:46]] For 178. Thank you. To - 178. Thus, the request was made by 150 votes. There is now a vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Please identify yourself and vote. [[11:25:16]] For 204 Sadly, the request did not receive the required 226 votes. I would like to make the following request for a vote: from a group of national deputies (Krivosheeva, Dundee, and others). A total of 40 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the creation of a regional landscape park called Polona Bovra. Please identify and vote. [[11:25:56]] For-189 Now please, colleagues, vote on the decision to send a pre-supported parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. We need 226 votes to support the request. Please identify and vote. [[11:26:25]] For 213 Sadly, I did not request the required 226 votes. The factions, please show me. Servant of the People – 121, Opposition Platform – For Life – 19, European Solidarity – 19, Fatherhood – 15, For the Future – 11, Voice – 14, non-fractional – 14. All right, people's deputies, it's me. We've now received 224 parliamentary requests. From Solomia Bobrovsky to the President of Ukraine regarding the release from prison in Nigeria of Ukrainian sailors. Groups of National Deputies (Krivosheeva, Dundi and others, only 40 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the creation of the regional landscape park "Polona Božava". July Grishina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on how to secure the area of education services. Alexander Salichuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for the prosecution of the decision of the Equality District Council to grant fishing opportunities for 25 years to the Equal garrison organization of the Association of Military Hunters and Fishermen of the Western region of Ukraine. Larissa Bilozer to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to ensure that citizens are entitled to available administrative services. Anna Speedhod to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service for the execution of the verdict. Dmitri Lubinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the educational subsidy. The aunts of Cyprus are under the responsibility of the head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine to discover the facts of the violation of the current legislation of Ukraine related to the construction of the "Health and Recreational complex with a well-designed territory: the city of Kiev, the street of Flower of Cisik, 34, 36" and to appeal to the control bodies. Alexander Tkachenka and John Shinkarenk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Community Development and the territories of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration on the use of effective measures to address socio-economic issues of the development of individual territorial communities in the Odessa region. Eugenia Shevchenka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the verification of the criminal offence envisaged in part three of article 161 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Eugenia Shevchenka to the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio talk about the appointment of a 5 channel check in connection with the dissemination of calls for direct restrictions on citizens' rights based on their political and other beliefs, places of residence, language and other signs. Olga Vasilevsky-Smagluk to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District Administration on the use of response measures to restore the original documentation of the Kyiv District Administration and to hold the guilty persons accountable. Bogdan Kitsak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the payment of salaries to employees of the Central District Hospital of the Berdichov Region. Bogdan Kitsak to the Berdichov City Head for the pedestrian crossing at the No. 14 College of Education in Berdichiv. Alexander Tkachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health Care and Health Insurance, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration on the use of effective measures to prevent the closure of the Killia District Centre of Primary Health and to ensure that citizens enjoy constitutional rights for timely, free medical care. Valery Davidenk to the Head of the Ukrainian Railway Association Shareholders' Authority to address the problem of rail connections in the town of Bachmachmach in the region of Chernigiv. Michael Bondar to the finance minister of Ukraine for payment for works carried out under the construction "Renovation of Municipal Property of Kamyanka-Buzki United Territorial Society at Shevchenka Street, 1. Michael Bondar to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the premises of the former military unit in the city of Broda Lviv. Constantine Kasaya to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine in support of the domestic machine industry. Alexia Zmerenecki to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible release of employees of the Locomotive Depo of Shepetovka. Antonini Slavicky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the consideration of student requirements regarding the improvement of the new order of boarding. Antonina Slavicka to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring back Ukrainian sailors imprisoned in the State of Libya. Igora Kolyhayeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Railway Association of Shareholders, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the resolution of urgent issues with the provision of a permanent operation of the High-Counchille Railway Station. Ivan Shinkarenko and Alexander Tkachenka to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health Insurance, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration on the use of effective measures to provide adequate medical care to residents of the village of Bilenke Bilgorod-Dnistrov Region of Odessa. Mikoli Skorak to the head of the National Police Department in Odessa, U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine, for the conduct of a pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings No. 12014160500003700 on the basis of the mass killings and other crimes that took place in Odessa on May 2, 2014, and related to the facts of the conduct. Stepa's branch to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the theft of budget funds in the construction of bridge crossings in Zaporozhye. Ladies Bullach to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of the National Council Head of the Cabinet of Ministers for Tuberculosis and HIV-infection/AIDS and for the restoration of its function as an advisory body. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the illegal stay of the Deputy State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Alexia Zhuravlova on 1-2 November 2019 in the temporarily occupied territory of the Lugansk region and in the territory of the distribution of forces and resources. Groups of National Deputies (Grischenko, Yanchenko and others) A total of 8 deputies) are under the temporary responsibilities of the Head of the State Agency of Ukraine to manage the alienation zone to provide information on the current state of radiological pollution removed from the farmland of the National United Territorial Society of the Žitomir Region. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on a policy aimed at destroying small and medium-sized businesses. Victoria Grib to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the violation of the law by Deputy Chief of Investigations of Criminal Investigations of the Financial Investigations of the Office of Large Taxpayers of the State Fiscal Service of the Ukraine, Anton Zamatín, and Deputy Chief of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vasil Jacinin. Victoria Grib to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of the requirements of criminal procedural law by Deputy Chief of Investigations of Criminal Investigations of the Financial Investigations of the Office of Large Taxpayers of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Anton Zamatín, and Deputy Chief of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vasil Jacinin. Maxim Bujanski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the call for a report by the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Renata Kuzmin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for receiving the reply of the Attorney General of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Mikoli Veličković to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine about providing information on the transfer to the concession of road routes. Igory Vasiliwa to the Head of the Department of Holding in the Ternopil area on the need for an inspection visit. Dmitry Black to Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the exit of the state-owned mining and enrichment company from the state-owned nuclear fuel company. Zinovija Andryovich to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services on the critical situation that has arisen in the local self-government authorities with the provision of street lighting to populated areas. Zinovija Andrivovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on the gasification of the villages of Bili Oslava, Black Oslava, Black Stream, the region of Ivano-Frankiv region. Sergia Minka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the debt of housing and utility benefits. Sergey Minka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the problematic aspects of financing measures to improve the quality of medical and pharmaceutical personnel in 2020. People’s Deputies — Dust, Jonah, and Others A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of full funding measures under the State budget subsidy for 2019 to the capital repair of the buildings of the municipal non-commercial enterprise Kurakhiv City Hospital (Courahov City, Donetsk Region). People’s Deputies — Dust, Jonah, and Others A total of 5 deputies) headed by the Luhansk District State Administration, the head of the Regional Military and Civil Administration for the use of urgent measures to accelerate the entry into service of residential buildings in the city of Rubizhny Lugansk district, built to ensure that internally displaced persons reside in them. Olga Saladuha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister for Veterans, Temporaryly Occupied Territories and Internally Moved Persons of Ukraine, President of the National Committee for Disabled People's Sports of Ukraine, Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the provision of rooms for the training of nominal athletes of the Professional Battle Club "Triada" of the city of Slovinsk Donecko Region. Igor Guza to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for the immediate amendment of the Ukrainian Budget Code in order to preserve the rule on the deduction of the share of excise taxes to local budgets. Igor Guza to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Health, Health and Health Insurance, Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of non-reduction for the Volin Region of Subsidy (2019) for the reform of regional health systems for the implementation of joint reconstruction and development with the International Bank of Reconstruction and the development of a project for the reconstruction of general health clinics, family medicine. Groups of National Deputies (Dmitry, Kravchuk and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the activities of the Head of the National Commission’s Office, which regulates the state’s financial services markets of Tetjana Galabudski, which is not in accordance with the principles of public service and ethical conduct and is a violation of the State official’s oath. Mary Ionova to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, on the rapid and impartial response to the serious violations of Ukrainian environmental legislation by agrarian enterprises operating in the village of Zviny Gorokhiv district of Volinsk. Paul Frolov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-admission of restrictions on the right to have available housing for the participants of the anti-terrorist operation, the operation of the United Nations and internally displaced persons in 2020. Paul Frolov to the city head of Kyiv regarding urgent measures taken to complete the reconstruction, the introduction of the Shulavian leadership in Kiev, and the elimination of the abuses and violations found. Alexander Kunicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prohibition of the use of public and municipal roads for large-scale means of transport when a paid road is in the same direction. Igora Murdy to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the MP's appeal. Maxima Guzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of salaries for workers in the budget area of the Suma region. The Party of Steps to the Minister of Culture, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the development of intellectual sports of Ukraine. Solomonia Bobrowski to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Audit Service of Ukraine for the development of the State Regional Development Fund in the construction of a preschool facility in the city of Raven. Vladimir Aresonkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the payment of one-time cash assistance to members of the military service and other groups of military personnel who have lost their health in carrying out their military duties. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on ensuring an effective and systematic organization of work to improve the qualifications of teaching and teaching staff. Alexander Marikowski to the Director of boarding school No.23 "Kadetsky Corps" with the enhanced military and physical training of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev for the misconduct of the boarding-house officer No.23 "Kadetsky Corps" with the enhanced military and physical training of the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Victoria Kinsburg to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the establishment of social justice in relation to citizens who have participated directly in the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster and its consequences. Victoria Kinsburg to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the possible illegal actions of officials of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Kharkiv Region and its structural units on failure to properly enforce the decision of the court, which deprives the Ukrainian citizen of the opportunity to take part in the upbringing of his minor child and the child of the right to contact the father accordingly. Olga Savchenko to the procurator of the Kharkiv District for the unlawful actions of officials of the Balakli District Police Department of the Kharkiv Region and prosecutors of the Lozov Local Prosecutor's Office of the Kharkiv Region. Alexander Ustinov to the head of the National Police of Ukraine regarding the inaction of officials in charge of the National Police Department of Kiev. Alexander Kunicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds to the National Aerodynamics University of M.E., Žukovsky's "Harkovi Aviation Institute" for the acquisition of a supersonic aerodynamic tube T-6 and the renovation of rooms with the modernization of the heating system. Valery Gnatenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development, Trade and Agriculture of Ukraine on the difficult economic and financial situation of society with limited responsibility of KF "Frižkowska". Sophia Fedina to the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, the Lightwater City Council of Kirovograd district, the Kyrovograd District Public Administration for the Breakdown of the Inflammation Season in the city of Svvetlovodsk of Kirovograd district in connection with the inactivity of local authorities and law enforcement authorities. The Sofias of the Federation to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Security Service of Ukraine on the issue of the legal status of a person who is unlawfully deprived of the will of illegal armed formations or of the law enforcement authorities of a foreign state, or who has been unlawfully convicted since 20 February 2014 – during the period of the anti-terrorist operation and during a special period. Victor Medvedchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the investigation by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine in the conduct of a pre-trial investigation into the criminal conduct of the unlawful payment of prizes to the leadership of the NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine". Alexander Zavlnević to the Kyivtorf State Enterprise about the situation surrounding the state-owned company Cherkasitorf. Groups of National Deputies (Tretiaków, Strunevich and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Provincial District Authority, the Chernigian District Administration, the Dnipropetrov Regional State Administration, the Donetsk District Military and Civil Administration, the Zitomir District Administration, the Zacarpathian District State Administration, the Luhansk Regional Civil Administration, the Lviv District State Administration, the Mikolai District State Administration, the Odessa District Administrative Authority, the Provincial Regional Administrative Authority, the Equal District State Administration, the Sumen District State Administration, the Ternopol State Administration, the Provincial Regional Authority, the Odesslovan State Administration, the Provincial State Administration, the Provincial State Administration, the Provincial Authority, the Federal Government Authority, the Federal State Administration and the Federal Government Authority. Groups of National Deputies (Tretiaków, Strunevich and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre regarding applications for land acquisition, permits for the development of land-based documentation for participants in hostilities - ATO and OOS. Irina Konstanovic, under the temporary responsibilities of the head of the Volin District State Administration to carry out repairs in 2020 on the road to the general use of local value in Kamen-Kashirski, Kivertsevsky, Ljubsevsky and Manevicki areas. Irina Konstankevich to the Authorized President of Ukraine from land issues to block the transfer of agricultural land to the communal property of the united territorial communities. Marina Bardinau to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the rehabilitation of the PAT "Radical" and the removal of harmful substances from the city of Kiev. Oleg Volosin of the Ukrainian Security Service for the clarification of plans for political persecution against the leaders and deputies of the opposition. Tetjana Placzkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the expenditure of Ukraine's State budget for the 20th year to unlock the tourist potential of Ukraine. Romana Ivanisov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of Vitali Sukhovich's activities and the elimination of corruption schemes he organized in the area of forest and hunting farming in the region. Romana Ivanisov, under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the National Agency for the Prevention of Corruption of Ukraine, Director of the National Anticorruption Bureau of Ukraine for the organization by Vitali Sukhović of corruption schemes in the area of forest and hunting farming of the Plains region. Sergey Ljowczina to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the need to respond to the threats of citizens of Marina Danilkini. Valeria Davidenka and Boris Izdjerka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the preservation of the functioning of small-scale institutions of general secondary education in the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Guerrega to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on improving administrative and legal responses to the destruction of road painting by large-scale road transport. Larissa Bilozer to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, on the provision in the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for the 20th Year, of a subsidy to the district budget of the Winnitsk Region to pay off debts from differences in tariffs on thermal energy, central water supply and water supply. Alexander Fedienka to the head of Kiev City State Administration on the readiness of the civilian protection system of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Fedienca, Watras, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of Cabinet of Ministers Order No.823 of 21 August 19 which approved "The manner in which State control of compliance with labour law is carried out". Vassila Pétovka to the head of the Zacarpathian District State Administration for proposals for the repair and reconstruction of the Tachivsky and Rakhiv regions of the Zakarpatsk region. Victor Medvedchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to make it impossible to obtain the rewards of state-run executives in the execution of court decisions that are owed to state-owned enterprises. Vladislav Borodin to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine, the Head of the Dnipropetrov District Council, the Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration to address the issue of the creation of the National Natural Park "Orilski" in the Dnipropetrov region. Artema Dubnov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the poor technical condition of the elevator industry in the Righteous District of Kiev. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Energy and Environmental Protection of Ukraine on the need for an immediate solution to the waste management problem and its massive accumulation in Ukraine. Stepan Kuba to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the implementation of the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in part of the construction of concession roads in Ukraine. Victor Myalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine stockholders' board of directors of the National Savings Bank of Ukraine on the issue of the preservation of the savings bank TVBV No.10017/0171 in the village of Kamjane Rokitni district of the Plain region. Tetjana Grishenko to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the obstacle to the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy by village head of the village of Starosilci Korostišov district of Žitomir district of Oleg Kutsakovsky. Jean Belenjuk to Kiev City Head about the funding for heating repairs at the public school No.44 on the street of Žiljanska, 46 in Kiev. Dmitry Solomczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the critical state of the municipal institution "The District Centre for Emergency Medical and Disaster Medicine" of the Regional Council. Andrija Puziyczuk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conduct of an official investigation into officials of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for the legal status of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a legal person and budget manager. Renata Kuzmin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of illegal persecution by the Ukrainian People's Deputies' Security Service of the Ukrainian political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" and obstacles to the legitimate activities of the party. Vadim Novinsky to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the use of immediate measures to return prisoners or unwarranted members of the Ruta, sailors of other civilian vessels and ships belonging to the Ukrainian State. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of central and local executives from the prevention of childlessness and homelessness, the implementation of the National Plan of Action for the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Igora Kolyhayeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the need for insulin for insulin-dependent diabetes in the city of Nova Kahouka in the Hersonian region. Arsenia Pushkarenka to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine on the situation regarding the appointment of the director of the specialized school, I-III, with an in-depth study of English No. 15 of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Pushkarenka, Lichman, Lubinca) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the ignoring by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the legitimate requirement of Ukrainian National Deputies, violated by a parliamentary request for measures to stop the activities of an organized criminal group operating in the territory of the town of Zvenigradka Cerkas region. Alexander Aliksiyczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, deputy head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre, director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the State cadastre registry. Dmitra Nalotova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of conducting an investigation into the illegal possession of a suspect in the commission of a criminal offence against the Head of the Opišnian United Territorial Society of Raznik M.M. Mr. Coucher to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the cessation of illegal activities by officials of the U.S.F.F., the Chief Executive of the DFS in Kiev, in relation to the limited liability association "Mineral Trans Ukraine". Groups of National Deputies (Halushka, Kuzminy, and others) A total of 5 deputies) are acting as Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology and Geology Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal extraction of sand from the river Desna in the territory of the Brovar Region of Kiev. Andrija Stryharski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Cerkas District Public Administration to review the appeal of the resident of the City of Cherkaske District of Kuchmenko Alla Volodymirini to provide material assistance for the continuation of comprehensive treatment and social protection. Paul Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inclusion in the Ukrainian National Budget 2020 draft of the United Territorial Communities of the Zaporozhye Region, which is scheduled to hold the local elections on 22 December 2019, to receive the corresponding transfers from the state budget in 2020. Paul Melnik to the Head of the State Treasury Office of Ukraine on information on the dynamics of income from environmental taxes and other financial contributions for damage caused by violations of environmental legislation as a result of economic and other activities to budgets of all levels. Vladislav Borodin is acting as head of the Dnipropetrovsk Road Service in the Dnipropetrovsk region on the unsatisfactory state of road coverage of the territorial T-0410 in the territory of the Magdalena region through Dnipro-Slobojansk-Pidgorne-Magdalinovka-Katkova Dnipropetrovsk oblast. Valeria Zuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to restore the stable operation of the Gdynic gas refinery in the territory of the region of Chernigiv. Alexander Kachura to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on receiving the award-winning weapons by Tetjana Crnovol Andrija Lopushanski to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of television for the inhabitants of the Old Sambirsky, Turkovsky and Skolov regions of the Lviv region. Andrija Lopushanski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting in order to provide television services to the inhabitants of the Old Sambirian, Turkish and Scolivian regions of the Lviv region. Yulia Ovovnikova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Frankov Regional Administration on the examination of unlawful interference with the activities of the national natural park "Guzulščina" of the public enterprise "Chut Forest Farm" and the Pisten Rural Head", the use of measures to halt illegal activities and to maximize the enforcement of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 14 May 2002. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Ariev and others) A total of 16 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent complex measures to counter the abuse by the Russian Federation of their rights in the Interpol system in political motives, particularly with a view to the political persecution of Ukrainian citizens. Groups of National Deputies (Paulenka, Dustyka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the head of the military-civil administration of the city of Toreck Donetsk, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the financing and proper equipment of the Centre for the Social and Psychological Rehabilitation of Children in the city of Toreck Donetsk. Groups of National Deputies (Herasimova, Heratchenko and others) A total of 17 deputies) to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to respond to public appeals against secession, the recognition of militants, the violation of territorial integrity and the threat of national security by Ukraine's national deputies, members of the MPs Maksim Tkachenka and Eugene Shevchenk. Hennady Watzak to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of care to citizens suffering from rare (orphan) diseases. The Gennady of Watsaka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the protection of Paul Doubush's right to be admitted to any state-owned health care facility that has the capacity to provide appropriate treatment. Tetjana Plačkova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of state funding for work on the repair of the road to the general use of the state value of R-33 "Vinnica-Turbov-Guysin-Balta-Velika Mihaylovka - (M-16)" in Odestina.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Helen Constantine. Request time's up, 12:00. I'll announce a break until 12:30. The great request of the national deputies to return in time for us to begin our work at 12:30 sharp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions asking to announce a recess for 30 minutes. "ES" and "Voice." 30 minutes off. Thank you. We'll start work at 1:00 a.m. [[B in m in s a l in]] One day we got very tired, I understand. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand we have a break, but we have become a good tradition, initiated by Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. We have guests from the Horn of the Curve, so I suggest they take a sip and say hello. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Please invite the national deputies to the hall. We'll be in session in two minutes. And I'd like to point out right now that we're going to vote in favour of the decision on short-term regulations, etc. Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. Take your seats. Dear colleagues, we begin our work, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, there's been an offer from the "Serve of the People" faction, the heads of the "Serve of the People" faction of David Georgiyovich Arahamiya, to continue our work until 3 p.m. That's the first offer. Second offer. Because last Friday, our colleagues asked us to do "Variance," but at the end of this, there are only about 20 people's deputies, there is an offer today to apply the ad hoc procedure and not take the time for "Variance" and continue our work until 3 p.m. John Ivanovich Krulko is motivated. And after that, we can. Do we have to vote or will there be an agreement in the room? After that, Knyazevitch. I see. Cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u67	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, the ad hoc procedure provides for a reduction of the terms twice, but the ad hoc procedure (read the Rules, article 50 of the Rules provides for this) does not allow for the cancellation of any procedures provided for in the Supreme Council's calendar plan of work. So if there is opportunity for national MPs and national deputies only on Fridays, many have the opportunity to speak from the rostrum on important issues related to individual territories or districts, I believe that this right behind the deputies should be strengthened and given the opportunity to do so. After all, we are in Parliament and the debate in Parliament has not been reversed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u68	Thank you. John Ivanovich, this is article 19. Please, if you have a rule, you can pick it up, take a look. Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u69	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Head. It would be very inappropriate to apply in this case only the third part of article 19, which you say is of a general nature, because with regard to the heading "Varisne", there is a special norm – the third part of article 25, which clearly states that Friday, from the sessional week 13 to 14, there is time for speeches by national deputies on various issues. This is an imperative special norm that does not extend to ad hoc, a situation that is foreseen in the third part of article 19. So in this case, ad hoc cannot be applied. We must endure this standard. Thank you. I'd like to begin with "Victory."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u70	Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u71	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I wanted to point out that during the sessional week, there were, in fact, about 20 national deputies left. But, Dmitri Alexanderovich, remember that the same procedure for the Miscellaneous was from 14th to 15th. Maybe it's because we broke the law and did it overtime, and if we go from 13 to 14 today to make the same "Variable" procedure, so that all the people's deputies, especially the majorists, have the opportunity to speak out in the districts, there will be a lot more people. Hence, there is still an offer to act by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u72	You know, to be honest, it's kind of weird to hear us take breaks one by one, and then we don't want to keep working. With all due respect, colleagues. Suffritch Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u73	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I know that an agreement has been reached for the continuation of work today to 15 hours. From the 14th to the 15th, we'll be able to speak to the Ukrainian people's deputies in the "Virgin". It's their right. We already have a precedent: the same thing happened last plenary week on Friday. I think we can do it again if the will of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to do it. The only reason I'm here is so that we don't lose precious minutes at the beginning of the session. I understand, of course, that there was a "trial" between the basement where the "ministers of the people" faction was sitting, and the session hall. But I hope that was the last "problem" in our Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u74	Thank you. Now, Alexandra Yuriovna. There was another suggestion, Nestor Ivanovich. There was an offer until the 15th to work without the "Virgin" today, without the "Virgin." That was the offer. Alexander Yuriyovna Ustinova. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u75	Colleagues, we support the continuation. But we ask that the State Bureau of Investigation Act be put to the vote first. And then, if there's any time left, it's on "Rizz." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's an offer today to move away from the schedule that was approved and continue our work until 3:00, and not spend today, and not spend time on what's called "Virgin." The next week will be the opportunity to work in the regions, and there will be a lot of differences if someone goes to their districts and does their duties qualitatively as a national deputy. Sergei Volodymyrovich Shahov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u77	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dmitri Alexanderovich, with great respect to you. Honestly, not just the majors who passed from Luhansk, from Lviv, it sounds from all the national MPs and parties. There are many questions that need to be discussed. And it doesn't matter if someone runs after a meeting at a buffet or something. Who will remain in Parliament and talk from the rostrum about issues that are in all areas, in all cities, in all villages. They'll talk about oncologicals, they'll talk about roads, they'll talk about hospitals, they'll talk about all the questions that accumulate.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u78	Let's go from 15 to 16. Okay, here's the deal: we continue to work until 16, from 15th to 16th, those who want to take the floor stay on "Rizzle." Okay? It's okay. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to support that proposal that was proposed by the National Deputies: we continue to work until 4:00, 15th to 16th will be "Rizzne," 15th to 16th will be "Rizzle." And I'm asking journalists to determine how many national MPs are going to stay in the room, okay, which are now insisting. Samantha Bobrowski. Samantha Anatolyevna, very briefly, has all spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u79	I would very much ask that the "Serial of the People" colleagues also remain listening to the "Variance," because last time you all voted for the sequel, all those who were in favor of the normal procedure remained, and we listened to each other, our colleagues, except those who were sitting in the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u80	Thank you. Okay. (No, they're speaking.) Vote. I'm betting on the vote for the extension of work today until 4:00, from 15 to 16, it's gonna be "Victory." No committees, okay. Do you accept, no committees? Roger that. I'll bet you a vote on that. I can't hear you, Rachmanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dmitri Alexanderovich, I don't understand the wording "without committees," what does that mean? What committees will be canceled today?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u82	There will be no committee meeting today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u83	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u84	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u85	What if they're planned?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u86	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the proposal to continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 4:00, from 15th to 16th will be "Rizzne" without committees today. Roger that. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. Well, everyone has their own offer, colleagues! Or let us vote in turn. I'm betting on the vote, please support and vote. [[13:11:39]] For 232 Decision taken. Work's resumed. Dear colleagues! Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 221, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 1, "For the Future" – 1, "Voice" – 5, "non-factional" – 4. Other political forces are zero. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call (registration No. 2394). I would like to consider it as a brief procedure, and I would like to conduct it without discussion after the chairman of the committee has spoken. Please sign up. Please support a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[13:12:35]] For 241 241. Decision taken. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenk, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u87	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At the meeting of the Regulatory Committee, a statement was considered by the non-fractional national deputy Trebushkin and the national deputy of the Vossilnica faction. The Deputy Trebushkin is responsible for electing a member of the National Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee. And the National Deputy Vasilka, on discharge from the duties of a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs and the election of a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Since the calculated quota for the factions of the Voice Party in the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use is not used, then it is possible to move this national deputy to another committee. Relevant to the Committee on National Security and Defence and Intelligence, there is a quota available for non-fractional national MPs. The committee therefore decided to support the statements made by the national deputies of Trebushkin, Vasilnik and to recommend to Parliament the amendments to the Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Ninth Call, and to recommend to Parliament that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Does It Need to Be Discussed? Sign up: two in, two in, two in factions. Ustenova Alexander Yuriyevna. Dear colleagues, and no 10, 30, 20 seconds after completion. Let's work and get into the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u89	Please pass the word Vasilko Lesi.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u90	Wasilenko Lesia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u91	Thank you so much for putting this decision in order of the day. I look forward to the voices of the entire room so that we can move on to the Committee on Environmental Policy as soon as possible. As the co-head of the interfractional energy and environment union, I have a lot of initiatives in the field of environmental protection, which I would like to start implementing and working on the environmental committee itself. Thank you very much. And I hope there's room support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Shinkarenko Ivan Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u93	Good afternoon! I support the right of the National Deputies to choose the committees they want to join. That's why I'm asking you to support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u95	Please pass the word to Andrey Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u96	Andrew Parubius, out of the way. Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u97	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! Today, we must fulfill another of our obligations under the law. Today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he is to read the oath of Ukraine's newly elected National Deputy from the European Solidarity Council, Vladimir Vjatrović. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Central Election Commission made a decision and determined that Vladimir Vitatrović was Ukraine’s national deputy. In the morning, all documents were handed over to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Only a formal matter is to take place: The Head is to invite him to the rostrum of Vladimir Vátrović to read the oath. This is a simple, formal thing with which friends have never had any difficulty. Why isn't that today? Why is this political decision now taking place in the hall? Was it because some shouted that we would not let Váterovic into the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Is it because there is a desire to strike again at the opposition party "European Solidarity"? Don't take all this responsibility for part of your team that's openly anti-Ukrainian, who say language is manipulation, that the army is manipulation, that the church is manipulation. That's what your people are saying. [[Noise Nodes]] You are now tormenting the Ukrainians who were protecting the country that protected the language and the faith and the Church. You're washing them today. You'll be running Putin, you don't mention him. You hit the E.S., you beat the V.S., you beat the Patriots. I urge you to stop! Because very soon your brief political cadence will end! I demand that the Head take an oath today and become a national deputy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u98	I don't quite understand how this question is related to Lesei Vasilenko, but it is. Other As for what was said. I have information that I have a decision from the Central Electoral Commission, but I don't have these documents on my hands right now. There will be documents -- we will be in the framework of existing legislation leading to the oath of the people's deputies, but we will not violate them. Larissa Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u100	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, the question is, at first glance, it's technical: head-to-head conversion, there's first intercessors, there's deputies, there's committee members. I'd like to draw attention to something else in this context. Much is said and many analysts are now moving: the quality of committee work, how many legislative acts have been prepared. I want to address the MPs who are present in this room to the MPs of the ruling majority: not to give any indication of the number of bills that the Council is considering. This legislative spam surprises the whole world. If you come to the Parliament of Germany, France, Norway, there are 10-20 drafts in a year, and that counts normally. Then there is stable legislation, then there is a stable situation. I'm surprised that these grant organisations are starting to count the effectiveness of MPs by the number of bills they have registered, by the number of bills they have considered, and by the number of bills they have adopted by the MP. And then we look at the bills, and there goes 10-20-30 authors just to put your last name in there so you can be a great lawmaker by number. And I'm talking about quality. So let's move on to this plane, let's change the rules together and train all these "grantoid" structures that don't matter, not the number of bills that are being considered, not the number of bills that the committee has fertilized, but the quality. Let him be alone for a month, but such that he really changes something in the lives of Ukrainians, that he actually gives a breakthrough: investment, industrial, transportation, energy, health. Not as is being done today. That's why we technically support it, the changes in MPs, committee transitions. But I am addressing you and the House's leadership: let's put this in order. And stop judging MPs by the number of bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote. Sphinx? Turn on Sphinx Dmitri's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u103	Please give Mageri a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u104	Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u105	Magera Sergey Vasilovich, Magera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u106	Magera. Turn on the Maggie microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u107	Dear Chairman, I have a question. How did it happen that my application dated August 19th, where I asked myself to join the Committee on Ecology and Environmental Management, remained out of order on the day-to-day regulatory committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u108	I can't comment on the regulatory committee right now. If we're talking about this change in the job of a national deputy, it was agreed upon by the heads of committees. This time. Two: this was part of the quotas that were foreseen during the preparatory parliamentary group at the beginning of our session. The ninth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote and proceed to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:22:03]] For 337 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Show the factions, please. 228 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – Life – 22, European Solidarity – 21, Fatherhood – 19, Future – 13, Voice – 18, non-fractional – 16. Decree No. 2394 was adopted as a whole. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer either to proceed with the rulings or to now move on to Bill 2300, the so-called alcohol bill. About alcohol? Spirt? [[B in m in s a l in]] Are you ready to go to the liquor now? Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider bill 2300 -- draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Regulation. For a transfer? Okay. I'm voting on a proposal to change the order of the agenda. I now propose to consider the alcohol bill. This is Bill 2300. Then we go back to the regulations, and we still have the decisions that matter. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:23:40]] For 294 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you are invited. Let's see the factions. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages, tobacco and fuel, liberalizing the production of ethyl alcohol (registration No. 2300). It is suggested that this issue requires a vote on inclusion in the agenda. It takes 226 votes. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:24:35]] For 293 Decision taken. It is necessary to apply the ad hoc procedure for consideration and decision-making at this plenary session. It takes 226 votes. Please support and vote, ad hoc. [[13:24:59]] For 278 Decision taken. It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[13:25:18]] For 258. Decision taken. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Aleksiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u109	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Constitution defines economic security as one of the most important functions of the state. Unfortunately, economic security depends on risks due to the still high level of shadow economy, which is caused by illegal production volumes. For example, over the past 15 years, alcohol trafficking has increased from 10 percent to 55 percent, according to experts. In addition, the very existence of a state monopoly on alcohol production because of the lack of competition leads to an increase in the shadow market, thus creating risks of corruption. That is why the Head of State has been introduced to Parliament and is defined as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and spirit drinks, alcohol, tobacco and fuel, on the liberalisation of activities in the field of ethyl alcohol production (registration No. 2300). The bill proposes: first, to abolish the State monopoly on the production of alcohol from 1 January 2020; first, to allow operators of any form of ownership to produce alcohol and to implement it under special licence; to allow operators who are licensed to produce alcohol, to export all types of ethyl, ethyl, refined, grape, ethyl reductible fruit; and to preserve existing restrictions on the import of food alcohol by 1 January 2022. Dear colleagues, the implementation of the bill will allow the State to ensure an adequate level of economic security, minimize the level of shadow circulation of alcohol, which will have a positive effect on Ukraine's state budget. In view of the above, please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and adopt Bill 2300. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u110	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Economic Development Committee, Natalusi Dmitry Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u111	Comrades, good afternoon! There's no secret that, apart from the public policy that we're dealing with here in the hall today, there's another side to the medal -- there's a policy that's deep: it's understandable, non-fractional, often extra-party relations that have a critical impact on state events no less than public policy. And besides dividing into public and deep policies, you can also divide the economy: there's a public economy -- that's the economy that we see every day in reports, in statistics, and there's a deep economy -- these are whole sectors that generate an incredible amount of revenue that goes, unfortunately, beyond the state budget and outside the tax system. Such sectors include the alcohol industry in particular. And that's exactly what's going on in getting alcohol out of the deep, or the shadow economy, into the public domain, and that's the idea of this bill. In fact, the issue is demonopolization and the license to license the production of alcohol to private companies and the cancellation of the state monopoly. In doing so, I would like to caution against distinguishing between dissipation and demonization. That is why the committee supports the first reading of the bill. But between the first and the second readings, we're going to try to do everything we can to make the model of demonopolization effective and go first for the benefit of the state, not to confess some ideology to call us liberal reformers or conservatives. Our task is to be called state reformers. The committee therefore reviewed the draft Law of 2300 and recommended that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. In addition, at a committee meeting, it was noted that the National Deputy of the Committee of the United States of America had a separate opinion on the bill, which was written under the transcript at the committee meeting, that all those who wanted to know about it could get to know it. Regarding everything else, I ask the House to support this draft law in its first reading on the basis of continuing to participate in all those who wish to work on an effective model of reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u112	Thank you, Dmitri Andryovich. Two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two out, two out, two out, two out, two out, two out, two out, Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u113	I'd like to give it to my colleague by the faction of Vadim Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u114	Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u115	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? There were 82 factories in the Soviet Union. We were almost primarily involved in the production of alcohol among the countries of the Soviet Union. But Russia prevented us from actually exporting alcohol, so it went down. Only 40 factories were transferred to the Ukrispirt DP, and 15 of them could actually produce something. So let me tell you, the system of demonopolization of Easter should be systemic. What Is Systemicity? Please tell me, when privatization is announced, should the state receive the best and the greatest price? Where do we draw conclusions today from the Ministry of Finance regarding how we'll sell factories if we demonolysate alcohol and legitimize all spills? We're going to sell them like scrap metal, and no amount of money is going to get the budget. The other one. Eighty-two sites. Eighty-two factories, eighty-two sites that can now be used for the production of bioethanol. Do we not remember how the law was passed? And today it would be seven percent of the bioethanol in our oil products. What happened? This law has been repealed, no bioethanol. This is where we need to make laws on bioethanol production and increase its content in our oil products. Next up, colleagues. What about the introduction of electronic accounting? What about the introduction of electronic excise? I know these thoughts fly. But where are these laws? They too should be considered alongside this law. Next up, colleagues. You're not told about state control. Canada implements vodka products exclusively through state structures. Spain is exclusively in specialized shops. This law will not do anything. This law will not fill the budget. "Paternality" will hold.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u116	Thank you. Katchura Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u117	Alexander Kachura, "Serial of the People" faction. I support this whole bill. I think we need to beat the monopoly. And please pass the word to Eugene Shevchenk, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u118	Eugene Shevchenko. Eugene Volodymyrovich Shevchenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u119	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'm asking you to support this bill. And to inform you that we have agreed on a committee position with the Cabinet of Ministers, we will make changes between the first and the second readings. The bill will be improved. The risks are that factories that will be put on privatisation and new ones will be built, we consider, for 2 years, a moratorium on the construction of new factories will be introduced. And we're going to do demonopolization not only of alcohol production, but also of the oligaric clans that make vodka, because virtually the entire market is occupied by four companies. So there is a proposal for a second reading to make changes and the Cabinet of Ministers will issue licences to farmers, medium and small enterprises for the production of distillate, both grain and fruit. And this will lead to competition and there will be no more monopoly on the market. Thank you for your attention. Support, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u120	Thank you. Germano Vasil Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone. You may not be in your place again. Do you have the microphone on? What about the card? Not on his own, probably Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I would like to begin with the date of the decision by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which took place on 31 March 2004. At that time, the President of Ukraine turned and adopted a decree on the introduction of a monopoly on production and distribution, including vodka products. And when this was challenged in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court made it clear that the existence of a State monopoly, State control over the production of alcohol, alcohol and its implementation kept these elements of a security nature. Therefore, those today who offer to break free from the State monopoly will be freed from state control, all of this will be brought into the fairway of free will and free will, and worse still, the lack of control over such a productive cycle that is related to the health of the nation. And you can't forget the question of economic security. And the Constitutional Court, when it agreed that in the field of bitter elections, alcohol production is part of economic security, and the economic fulfillment of our budgetary allocations that come to the address of the state execution. So tell me, where are we going when we suggest we give up?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u122	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u123	Today, look, with tobacco products, the state wants to take it away, but it can't. And look at the wealth that goes there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u125	Please give the floor to your colleague Victor Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u126	Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u127	Thank you, fellows of honor! There's a lot of talk about how it's been a long time for Ukrispirt to repopulate and make sure there's a liquor market in Ukraine, not this "food" that's been filling the pockets of individual officials for decades. I don't think it's wrong, everyone in the country has long known that out of these dozens of alcohol factories that are in the Ukrispirt area, they were essentially extracting the last living, and they were "food" when they forced manufacturers and shadow shops that work with vodka in Ukraine to buy "left2 alcohol through different schemes." And the point is that now we're trying to get rid of the feds that gave tens of millions of dollars a year to individual areas that worked in this field. I think, of course, every smart person understands that this needs to be supported. I have in my district a factory called the Deraznian Spirit Plant, which also has a bearing on this state structure. It's practically destroyed because they didn't fit in, they couldn't help but wonder how many factories it was, and they were essentially artificially creating a monopoly in those factories where there were comfortable managers and they had the ability to do machining, and this is an example of how this state institution worked. That is why we support the adoption of this bill. We think there should be a healthy competition between vodka producers. In Ukraine, enough world brands are represented, and I am convinced that they will build an alcohol industry near their production, much better and more efficient than the state does. And it's going to be exactly the quality, and it's going to be the struggle, and the competition, and the absence of corruption. That is why we support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u128	Thank you. The word is given to Kubi Stepan Ivanovich. Give me two minutes, because he's speaking instead of Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! First of all, thank you to Voice. Mr. Head, I want to say that on the committee, I have clearly presented the aspect of cancelling the state monopoly. The characteristics of the alcohol industry today are very simple. 81 manufacturing sites, Ukrispirt includes 44 enterprises, Ukrispirt DP, 40 companies are legal entities of the Ukrispirt concert. One state-owned enterprise - in the Office of Affairs, two enterprises - to the Ministry of Health. When we talk about 16 businesses that can't stop the damage of all other businesses, over 700 million. What I'm saying is that one job in the alcohol industry creates 14 jobs in adjacent jobs. Ways to solve problematic issues. The first step is to create a working group; conduct audits, technical, financial, all enterprises. Step two: carrying out a stock market assessment. And step three is to assign businesses to three groups. Non-professional assets of enterprises do not produce over a long period of time. The second is companies with higher investment attractiveness that can produce technical alcohol, they can produce lactic acid, bioethanol, ethylene, synthetic rubber, acetone and other things. And the third step is food-dealing companies. Reorganization of the alcohol industry in two stages. 40 companies that don't work for more than five years sell to ProZorro and pass it on to local self-governance authorities in the form of absence. 28 companies in the manufacturing and technical alcohol industry of the technical sectors of lactic acid to engage -- private investors, privatization of individual enterprises will give a lot of revenue to the budget. And the second step, 16 companies, is to create a private stock company called Ukrispirt, to upgrade at their own expense, a corporate high-end enterprise through the issuance of shares. This is going to have an economic effect. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u130	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u131	The economic effect. The first is the coming of funds into the state's privatisation budget. And the second is a highly cost-effective, technologically-modern, investment-attractive enterprise. That's the concept we presented.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the performance is up. Please prepare for the vote and take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and spirit drinks, alcohol, tobacco and fuel, on the liberalisation of activities in the field of ethyl alcohol production (registration No. 2300). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[13:42:57]] For 293 Decision taken. The bill was adopted as a basis. Thank you. Show me the factions, please. The People's Servant Party - 235, Opposition Platform - For Life - 9, European Solidarity - 0, Fatherhood - 2, Future - 11, Voice - 18, non-fractional - 18. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to shorten the second reading. Is there a denial? None. Then let me put it. There will be a vote -- well, no -- no, no. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for the submission of proposals and rights and to prepare for the second reading of the bill, registration number 2300. Please support and vote. [[13:44:04]] For 251 Decision taken. Strictly halved. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and the whole draft Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine in relation to Disengagement of Natural Gas Transport (registration No. 2239-1-P). It will be considered by a reduced procedure, as provided for by the Rules. The report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenk Aleksija Yuriovich. No, he who, with all due respect, Julia Volodymyrna, reports who is the author. I would like to point out that we then have another decision to resolve disagreements. Dear colleagues, Alexy Yuriovich, if you please. Kucherenko reports – the author. Dear colleagues, here will be quick enough, and important votes. Please don't break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u133	Alexy Kucherenko, the Fatherland faction, a Ukrainian citizen, co-owner of the gas transport system, nadr, air and everything in Ukraine. Dear friends, the magic word "anbandling," which will soon be feared by children. It's actually very simple. It comes from English to unbundle, to untangle, but it doesn't mean "anpiling" at all. Splitting up the gas transport system and burning it down is completely different things. I'm pointing out to you that, of course, in that situation, in that trouble that was brought into today's Supreme Council, there is a credit to the government and to Mr. Orgel. Mr. Orgel, Minister! I explain because it was the government at its meeting on September 18 that decided to draft the law on. The bill on billing and by October 10th he was going to submit this bill to us. He was responsible for the construction of Minister Milovanov, Minister of Economics, but at this time, I think the land was occupied by Minister Orgel and other ministries. If we had seen an objective government bill, set up by all ministers in an appropriate manner, we would have realized that it was the position of the government, for then each of the signatories would have understood that sooner or later he could go into interrogation, as it would have been if the will of the people were to be distorted. Instead, the government failed to fulfill its obligations, and the bill was rushed into consideration by the Supreme Council Committee, drawing your attention to the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u134	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u135	But at that point, it wasn't even passed and it was registered in the Supreme Council. This is the reason that you and I were further involved in this trouble. That's why I let myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u136	Thank you, Alexei Yuriovich. I'm sorry. Thank you. From the committee. If you don't mind, I'll give the committee a minute. Mayor Andrey. That's important, because we're going to have the next question. And then I'll give Calchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, first of all, we are very grateful to the representatives of the Fatherland faction for their active position in this process. You've really helped us work out this bill that we've adopted as a basis and as a whole. So thank you very much. We had a week of legal consultations. And we worked out a bill, we cleaned it up. And today we're putting it in support in the form of a comparative table. Therefore, your request does not support that decision. The next vote will be given exactly the comparative table that was given to you. And there's all the revisions, all the proposals are agreed upon and counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u138	Thank you. A word for the report. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u139	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! The Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt registration number 2239-1 in the second reading and the whole Act and the written statement of the People's Deputies of Kucherenka. The Committee noted that Deputy Kucherenko had not addressed the presiding officer at the plenary session of the Parliament with an application for a violation of the Rules of Procedure when considering and voting this law, as provided for in article 48 of the Rules, but had put forward a draft decision to Parliament by the Supreme Council on the annulment of the relevant decision by Parliament and had made a written application to the Head. During the consideration of this draft regulation -- present at the meeting of the Regulatory Committee of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Kucherenko Aleksyyy Yuriovich, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrna -- it is reported that they have established editorial inaccuracies and inconsistencies between the positions adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the law and the text of the second reading bill, which was approved by the relevant committee of profile. According to National Deputies Timoshenko and Kucherenko, the changes voted by the Committee were not fully reflected in the text of the bill. So there's this terminology mismatch. In accordance with article 48, part 8, of the Rules, the Committee concluded that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be decided by a vote on the adoption or rejection of the draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u140	Did you mention who that was? Did you mention Tyshenko? Did you mention Timoshenko? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please turn on Julia Volodymyrski's microphone. A moment of motive. Dear colleagues, I propose we proceed to the vote. Motives, motives, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u141	My dear friends, I just want to mention how we voted friendlyly for the release of the gas transport system from the Naftogazu NAC. And then we clearly defined what we were voting for. And on the committee, we confirmed the vote that no one can alienate that property, that the state controls that property, and that the state has all the proceeds of that property. In fact, a bill has been tabled that does not fully fit our decisions. And I would certainly like to speak on every paragraph of this bill, which is being submitted for clarification, and I think I will have the opportunity. But all those who want to protect the gas transport system must now vote in favour of repealing the previous law and vote against the clarifications to be made. We're losing our biggest property.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose to proceed to the vote for this order. Come on. Colleagues, let's put it to a vote. Look, we've got another question, there'll be a precise discussion, come on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then there is no discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not supposed to be there. Well, colleagues, let's vote for this decision, let's move on in fact. Ready to vote? Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please identify and vote. Wait! Stop! I'll bet you a vote. I am voting against the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the second reading and the whole bill on the amendment of certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities (2239-1-P). Please identify and vote. [[13:53:39]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, you have been given up for consideration. I'm sorry. On October 31, 2019, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a second reading and, as a whole, as a law of Ukraine, a project entitled “On making changes to certain laws of Ukraine in relation to the separation of natural gas transport activities” (registration No. 2239-1). In accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to eliminate some disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given to you. Dear colleagues, I propose to give the floor to the head of the committee for the speech. After that, I'll give everyone the opportunity to speak to each faction, give the floor to the Prime Minister and give the floor to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Andrey Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u143	Good afternoon. We've actually voted very consistently on this bill on the banning. And everyone in the room was given the corresponding text of the bill, everyone had the opportunity to read it, and they voted accordingly. But we have some differences in Ukrainian legislation as to what the gas transport system is, or the gas transport system includes underground gas shelters. One legislation says what it includes, and another says it does not include. So in this case, under article 131 of the Rules, we propose to harmonize the text in a way that clearly states that 100 percent of government property is guaranteed both in the gas transport system and in underground gas depots. Therefore, it is a request to uphold the proper determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u144	Thank you. From every faction. Who? Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. I see Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u145	Thank you. I am the first to address the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the subject of the proposal for 131 articles should be the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to remind you of part five of article 131, which provides for discussion and voting on each of the proposals made. We have these suggestions on 14 pages. By the number of votes you're going to have to put every one of them into a vote. So please prepare for a large number of votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u146	Thank you. Julia Volodymyrna, with motive, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, one minute to discuss such matters that are of value to the country, it is funny. But I will tell you that this bill provides for the repeal of practically 75 articles of the Natural Gas Transport System, where the government approves the financial plans of the gas transport system, gas depots and transit electricity lines. This means that the state will not have as much as a minimum of $3 billion in revenue earned by the gas transport system. All of this is passed on inside the company, to foreign supervisory boards. In addition, the State’s refusal to invest abroad into this gas transport system and then transfer it to tariffs is unacceptable. Without the owner, they'll decide, as a "new-year duck," to spy on our state-owned property with unnecessary investments, to transfer it to tariffs, and then bankrupt it. It's unacceptable. In addition, the National Commission on Electricity Control resolves disputes in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u148	Ten seconds. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u149	And it lays down rules in the settlement of disputes instead of courts. I think we need to vote against it here and redraft this law. Don't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u150	Thank you. Who else wants it? Please, Irina Volodymyrna Heratschenko, National Deputy. Irina Volodymyrna's character. Turn it on, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. As you know, our political power, our faction voted in favour of the Ending Act, but now there are unacceptable things going on. We are presented with a bill, which has been redrafted 30 times, in the face of a terrible mistrust of what is actually going on in the profile committee when the head of the committee after the bill has been voted on, in haste, from dust of heat, tried to submit to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for signature a forged document, a forged, completely redrafted law. And it's very good that the Head of the Supreme Council didn't go to the crime, in fact, was not signed by a bill that we didn't vote for. In these circumstances, in fact, when our political power, as liberals, for what we're discussing right now, we can't vote for it, because we don't understand what's going to happen next. That's why we're going to hold on, and just because there's a mess going on in the hall first. The other one. These things are serious, they're not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u152	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u153	And the second. We'd like to address the government. Friends, we're discussing extremely important things: Ukraine's gas transport system. You know that, but why do you always bring everything like hot pies?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Who else wants to speak? Please, People's Deputy Ironborn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, we have 15 November today, and we understand that we have very little time left to meet our international obligations and meet these requirements. We voted in favour of this bill in the first reading, we voted in the second. We very much hope that if these changes are voted on, without delay today, this bill will be signed and passed on to the President, and the President will also make it the law of Ukraine. And the last. In order to support this text -- I am talking not only about my faction, but also about the entire room -- we ask that the Prime Minister of Ukraine be given the floor to confirm in this large room that the changes meet the requirements of the European partnership and allow us to carry out the onbanding procedure. After that, we will make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to an unprecedented case where we see that the law is being falsified, it has already been adopted and voted. And we see that the will of the national MPs is being distorted. I would like to bring you back to the Constitution of Ukraine, which foresees that, along with the violation of material rights regarding constitutionality, there are still procedures to be followed. And what you're doing right now, the honourable colleagues who are voting now have a purpose, you're essentially not going to break the Constitution -- you're going into conflict with criminal law. Because we have made this statement, in front of the eyes of all our honest people, we do so! Is that an IMF order? If it's an IMF order, you say so. But imagine what if we see that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u158	Thank you. Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Who else wants to speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u159	Andrew Jupánin, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, we ask you very much to support this comparative table that you now see in front of you. It is quite unprecedented for the Supreme Council that the MPs have admitted their mistakes that we have allowed to vote for the law on the basis. Because there were contradictions and disagreements. And we worked very well with the Legal Department, we worked on these changes for a week to match both the Law on the Gas Market, and the Code of Masters of Ukraine, and other legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine. In order to make clear the arrangements reached between us, both on the committee and here in the sessional Supreme Council Hall. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support and press the green button for a comparison table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u161	Thank you. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. After this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u162	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dear colleagues, our team has repeatedly reminded us that all State monopolies should belong to the state: it's gas, it's water, it's electricity, it's transportation. I agree with the fact that we have just voted on the development of the alcohol industry, that we need to launch an investor and completely rebuild this sector, but the gas belongs to the people. I've registered Decree 9027, which says, "Audience of the gas transport system." Today, for some reason, there is no production of Ukrainian gas and no normal and cheap gas is given to our Ukrainians. Julia Volodymyrna said that we don't need investors today who are going to take all our businesses into debt, then they are going to go bankrupt, and they're going to take them in as they did in 28 years. See what is happening in this area? How many drills do we have? Even if one is on the register today? Even though the audit was conducted in this direction today? How much gas is being produced today, and who is receiving from the population?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. Julia Volodymyr. Replica - Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u164	Dear friends, please note page 8 of the materials that were distributed to you, and paragraph 5, where it is written that "the financial plans of the gas system operator and the transmission system operator, as well as the company that owns corporate rights, are not subject to approval in accordance with article 75 of this Code." I directly quoted a paragraph that clearly tells you that the Cabinet of Ministers is limiting itself to the approval of the financial plans, which means that the next paragraph provides that the approval of the financial plans is granted to the host entity itself, the supervisory council formed by foreign citizens. Dear friends, don't do this, this is contrary to the Constitution, the Code of Masters, and common sense. Do not give away the profits of the gas transport system for looting. Vote "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u165	The watermelon. After this. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich. After that, the Prime Minister of Ukraine. And the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Well, respectable colleagues, well, we all see the effects of "turbage." We often spoke to our colleagues from the rostrum and pointed out that laws could not be adopted, all the more important, in such a regime. No one reads the law. Tell me, please -- I'm now addressing a member of the profile committee -- 13 pages of errors you suddenly found. Who do you think we are? It's a completely new law, in your new edition. In every direction, according to our colleague, we must follow the procedure of the Rules. Just as our colleague Timoshenko says, we need to walk and sort things out. So I'm asking you very much, Dmitri Alexanderovich, you as the speaker of our Parliament stop this mess, stop "turbing," and now let's go through it completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u167	Thank you. There was no negative reply, Julia Volodymyr. The replica is not. The word is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Alexei Valeriovich Honcharuk [[B in m in s a l in]] What's the problem, tell me? No, wait. What's the problem? [[Noise Nodes]] What's the problem? May I give the floor to the Prime Minister? This question goes without discussion. All right, I'll give the floor to the Prime Minister. Please, Alexei Valeriyovich. Alexi Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u168	Look what's going on. The Russians really don't want us to be able to prepare our gas transport system and our operator for the extension of the contract. Look at the interview that Mr. Putin said yesterday. He said, "We're ready. Cheap gas for Ukraine? Of course. Transit? Of course, but the Ukrainians won't be able to prepare the system." You two weeks ago, my friends, voted for the very right laws. After that, the individual national deputies blocked it with their decree and plagued our heads for two weeks with all kinds of cunning laws. Now, along with the Supreme Council's legal office, along with the Supreme Council's leadership, with the committee, with the ministries, with the Europeans with whom we spent the night -- last night, we received the last letter from the Europeans about confirmation -- we tried to find language that would not raise any doubt that the Ukrainian gas transport system remained 100 percent in Ukraine. Property of Ukraine, the Ukrainian company, 100 percent. Don't be manipulative. I have a general suspicion that the FSB works here, my friends, but of course, we need to draw separate conclusions on this. Don't be manipulative, be strong! Thank you. Let's do it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u169	The word is given to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stefanchuk Ruslan Alexiyovich. A replica of what, Julia Volodymyrna? Replica, if the name is in a negative context. There was no negative context. Julia Volodymyrna, no, I'm sorry. Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, during this period we have witnessed the adoption of the law. Then, in the order of 131 articles and meetings with various factions and groups, along with the Chief Legal Authority, a compilation of the rights and suggestions signed by the General Legal Office was carried out as a result of a two - and - a - half - hour study of the transcripts, video recordings of committee meetings, and meetings related to the Supreme Council. So this table under the signature of the Chief Legal Authority corresponds to the things that have been agreed upon at the committee level and at the Supreme Council level. Moreover, it was also agreed with both the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers and with the lawyers of the Supreme Council. So I'm deeply convinced that we have two options today: either to support it and to make some disagreements that were in the law, or that the bill that we passed a week ago will be signed. Today it is only for us to determine whether we will do or send what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u171	Thank you. All those who wish to speak? Dear colleagues. You've been speaking, colleagues. I won't give it ten times. Comrades, you've been performing. What? European integration? Committee of European Integration, Klimpush-Cincadze with motive. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u172	That's interesting about 30 seconds. Well, first of all, we've heard the Prime Minister's speech, and we understand how important a state decision is. But I would like to remind the Prime Minister that it is not his function and not his right to accuse the deputies of anything at all, and these deputies can give the Prime Minister a mandate. Secondly, I would like to point out that it was tonight that we received another letter from.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u173	Please turn on the microphone, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u174	from the European community, which has just expressed clear concern over what has been put into this bill. And that's once again the result of the turbine. And, yes, we had to work at night to fix it again. And it's not true that this is about some kind of technical law, and it's about the incompatibility of the previous bill with the European Union's law. Colleagues, just do your job well, and then we as statesmen will support you all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u175	Thank you. The procedure is Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I address the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine first. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please remind the Prime Minister of Ukraine of the article and standard of the Constitution of Ukraine that the Cabinet of Ministers is under control and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it's not the prime minister's job to tell or evaluate the Ukrainian National Deputies, but the Ukrainian National Deputies have the right to give an assessment to the Prime Minister. If the Cabinet of Ministers were consistent, I would call upon the Cabinet of Ministers to submit their bill at all, because we now see the government's bed, and they have nothing to do with this bill. They came here to take a picture. Instead, they would have, as the Cabinet of Ministers, as the subject of the legislative initiative to submit their law and vote here, then they would tell how hard they work. We will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u177	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, however, to address the people's deputies more correctly. If there are any facts, let us not talk about this in the Council but refer to law enforcement agencies. I understand the level of addiction, so let's do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet, please! I ask everyone to remain within the framework of legal norms, ethical norms and a normal attitude towards one another. As far as the bill is concerned. We talked about how we might have made mistakes. Yes, these mistakes are. By these regulations, we settle the issue that Ruslan Alexiyovich has just talked about, that gas shelters, like other parts of the gas transport system, remain in the full percent, that we are with you at the time. No, I'm sorry, what we said to you was state property, not rent, not alienation, not concession, not transfer to government. So, respectable colleagues, there are two choices. If we support this right now, 131th is what you're given. Listen, please, this is important. You're a priest, aren't you curious? Once again, I would like to point out that we can either vote and support the reformed. Yeah, that's also a side effect. That's the side effect of our work and our circulation, and that's the truth. To correct those mistakes that were made during the adoption of the bill and to fulfill those promises that we made to each other and to Ukrainian society about 100 percent of Ukraine's gas transport system. Or fail, show a political position, get the law that it is. It will be signed and will become the law of Ukraine. And then we're going to be introducing a new bill, correcting these mistakes, making them, and wasting our time. Unfortunately, there is no time in the state. So I propose to put to the vote the vote that I have put to. Minister? Do you mind if I give the minister a minute? They're asking your colleagues to speak. One minute, Minister. And let's go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u178	Dear National Deputies! It is very important to vote today in favour of that project that has been worked out today, a project that we have previously agreed with our European partners. Which allows us to do certification and negotiate. Any delay, any interruption in this process is contrary to the interests of Ukraine. Please support today's committee project.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I am voting on proposals that have been tabled for the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws in relation to the Separation of Natural Gas Transport Activities (Registration No. 2239-1). The table is given to you. Please prepare for the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:18:23]] For 292 Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues. On the one hand, I would like to apologize for making such mistakes, and I hope that there will be fewer in the next. Thank you all. Show the factions, please. People's Servant - 235, Opposition Platform - For Life - 0, European Solidarity - 18, Fatherhood - 0, Future - 3, Voice - 19, non-fractional - 17. Thank you again. Decision taken. A statement came from two factions. I'm gonna take a break. Who's speaking? Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, you have now voted against a law that actually directly contradicts the national interests of Ukraine. Of course, after this vote and the signing of this law, our team will go to the Constitutional Court, and for the next authority, we will form a detailed submission to the Ukrainian Security Service on the crime that has, unfortunately, become a reality. At first, they wanted to falsify the first version of the law, to fake it harshly, and now they were falsifying the decisions of Parliament and the committee, a little bit more filigreal and intellectually, but that wouldn't help. I quoted one article of this bill, so-called bill, and I quote another: "When operators are banned from investing and the National Commission from including the entire amount of investment in tariffs." This is the path to bankruptcy and this "black" privatization of our main property. I also want to say two words about the disgraceful statements made by the Prime Minister from this rostrum. He blames someone for lobbying Russian interests and working for the FSB. I want to remind you that it is he who has dedicated the introduction to Ukraine of Russian electricity in huge quantities that the country does not really need. It's not just necessary, it's harmful. Because we're provided with our Ukrainian electricity twice as much as we consume. It's a job-free country. Not us, but this government and this government signed Steinmayer's formula, which is capitalization. We are definitely against it. And today, they're practically giving up Ukrainian interests in every direction. Not us, and they canceled the ban on privatizing 124 military-industrial facilities and assigned a man there who worked for a large part of his life and is now essentially in charge of our defense. And we don't see what's going on there. I can say that all of this says that Ukraine today has no one to protect but this room. And that's why I'm addressing all the deputies today. Whatever factions you're working in, read the bill more carefully than you would read any documents in your life. Because many of the bills, such as that of Ukraine’s gas transport system, contain specific points that turn Ukraine into a third world country and a colony of enough powerful world corporations. Either we read and we will be a parliament, or we will be used as a flock of sheep to betray Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u181	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u182	I ask you to be strong and intellectual. And don't worry about all these manipulations and emotions. The future of the country is in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, I am grateful to all of you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You will have before you the proposed draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible violations of Ukrainian legislation and abuse of office by the President of the Ukrainian Football Association, the head of the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Appeal by Pavelek in deciding on the financing and implementation of the budget programme on the construction of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine's regions in 2017-2018. This question does not require a vote in favour of its inclusion in the agenda. However, honourable colleagues are invited to consider it in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote, please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote in favour of the simplified procedure. [[14:24:16]] For the 250. Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Anatolia Vejacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u184	Dear National MPs, none of you are a mystery that the Ukrainian media were to raise the issue of possible corruption in the Ukrainian Football Federation or its updated version of the Ukrainian Football Association. Nor is it a mystery that the materials published in these journalistic investigations formed the basis of a series of criminal conducts initiated in 2018 by various law enforcement structures of our country, beginning with the NABU and ending with the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Until now, however, it remains a mystery why the investigation has not been completed and why no guilty person has been brought to criminal responsibility or, otherwise, justified by the leadership of one of the most massive and most popular sports associations in Ukraine. These are, without exaggeration, resonant questions that have recently been addressed to us as Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the Ukrainian journalistic community, and so far they remain unanswered. In this regard, we have decided on the need for the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of Ukrainian legislation and the abuse of office by the President of the Ukrainian Football Association (formerly the Ukrainian Football Federation), the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the eighth call by Pavel Andriy Vasilovic in the decision-making of the financing and implementation of the budget programme "Building of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine". We believe that the work of such a TSC will contribute to investigating the possible facts of corruption in Ukrainian football and will help to remove any doubts as to how the principle of objectivity can be levelled while it is being carried out, which can arise in society, taking into account the high social status and influence of Mr. Andrija Pavelek. Then I stress once again the resonance of the raised question and the extremely high public interest in it. I propose to support the Order on the Establishment of a Temporary Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u185	Thank you. The word is given to the Head of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Calchenko, Sergio Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u186	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting, the Regulatory Committee reviewed the draft Ordinance on the creation of the Temporary Investigation Commission, registration number 2423, which proposes to form a commission to ensure full and comprehensive investigation of possible corruption in the Ukrainian Football Association (formerly called the Ukrainian Football Federation). The Committee noted that in paragraph 9 of the Supreme Council’s draft regulation, the General Prosecutor’s Office, the Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is obliged to facilitate the work of the Commission and to provide members with access to material, documents. According to the Regulatory Committee, in this part, the draft ruling does not take into account the position of the Constitutional Court in its decisions of 11 April 2000 and 10 June 2000 on the exercise of control over the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The staff and the number proposed are made up of 10 deputies. From the faction of the political party "European Solidarity", the Voice party, the MP group "For the Future" no proposals for quantity and personal stock. And then the commission is formed in this composition, with the participation of factions and MPs who made their proposals. On this basis, the committee decided to recommend to Parliament a draft regulation and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u187	Thank you. Two-for-two-against, on the factions, please. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u188	Please pass it on to Jaroslav Jurczyn.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u189	Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u190	In fact, it is important to consider issues of concern, such as those related to corruption in various areas. The only thing we need to expect from the modern possibilities of a temporary commission of inquiry is the politicization of this process. Therefore, to all initiators of the creation of temporary commissions of inquiry, make a big request6 to adopt an adequate law on temporary commissions of inquiry that will provide mechanisms for correcting errors rather than establishing political positions. And then it makes sense. Now, of course, we support it because we need to figure it out, but don't actually politicize this mechanism. Control mechanisms should be effective, not political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u191	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! So I'd like to tell you what's going on in this session room right now. For a long time, the Ukrainian football team took first place in its group at the European Championships. This is the Ukrainian Football Association led by Andrija Pavelek. The youthful assembly became the world’s champion, and no one believed it at all, an association led by Andrija Pavelek. There are children's fields all over the country to play. You see, they're all playing, come in at any time: with the lights on the field, the kids are playing. What a development children’s soccer has been! What a development the youth team has experienced! And, you know, now that you're not handing out documents without talking about it, and it's not even in order right now, which is handed out to the people's deputies in the room, they're handing out what they're talking about. You know, there's only one comparison I can think of that makes you very successful in Ukrainian football, someone else, yes, as it makes the Russians hit Shewchenk at the gate of Philimonov. So, honourable colleagues, the faction of the political party "European Solidarity" will not support this disgraceful, in our view, determination, and this decision, and we simply offer all the colleagues in this session room one simple thing: think. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u193	The city’s Yuri Ivanovich. And then we go to the vote. All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote, two minutes, and we will proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u194	Today, every conscious, patriotic politician tries to find a way to unite the Ukrainian people, to give a reason to be proud of our country. As a sporter, I have long experienced that one of the best factors in such a union is football. It is he who allows all of us 90 minutes to forget about the various political preferences or. And at the stadium or near the television screens, fold into the national flag, sing the Hymn of Ukraine, hurt for defeating all our collective and Ukrainian clubs. But today, Ukrainian football is sick, cancerous tumor corruption is growing on his body, and it sucks out all the good out of it. And if we don't stop this destructive process immediately, the football will be destroyed. The cause of the crisis, I think, was the total politicization of the country’s main football headquarters. Gradually, most of the management positions in Ukrainian football were occupied by national deputies, district governors, and other officials who had no relation to football and perceived it as a source of wealth and satisfaction for their own ambitions. And as a result, a sense of impunity by the leadership of the Ukrainian Football Federation, belonging to the past government. This has led to the creation of the largest corrupt scheme of budget dissipation. Because the allocation for the construction of a billion-dollar football fields, distribution and control were the same people as the leaders of the Football Federation. The long-standing corruption of the Football Federation remains a topic for investigative journalists in and outside Ukraine. Ukrainian football is increasingly associated with corruption, not with effective performances and victories. And the creation and work of the interim commission of inquiry has an objective objectively telling us the truth and order us in Ukrainian football. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u195	Mokan Vasil Ivanovich, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u196	Thank you. As one of the initiators of this decision, we sent letters to all wanted factions. The three MP factions wanted to join this temporary commission of inquiry. And I want to assure you that this is about an impartial investigation into possible facts of corruption. No politics is foreseen. The Football Federation, as Ukraine's largest federation, is the most funded, accordingly resonant theme. I think it's worth taking a look at, and it's open-minded to figure out whether or not the abuses were there. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u197	Turn on Calchenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u198	Taking into account the wishes of some factions of some political parties, the draft decree proposes: to elect the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission of the People's Deputies of Kostuch Anatolia Vejaceslavovic (Deputy faction of the Servant of the People), Deputy of the People's Deputy Mama Grigori Mikolaiovich (Member of the Opposition Platform for Life faction). Select also the temporary commission of the following national deputies: Mokan Vasil Ivanovich (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Kasaya Gennadija Alexandrovich (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Zakharchenka Vladimir Vasilovich (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Boblaha Andrija Rostislavovic (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Kitzak Bogdan Viktorovich (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Krivosheviv Igor Sergiyovič (Faction of the "Slug of the People"), Jurija Ivanovovich (Faction of the "Optional Platform for Life"), Cimbaluk Mikhail Mikhailovich (Faction of the "Univer of the "Paternity"). Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who have spoken, let us go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I would like to vote on the proposal for adoption in the whole of the draft Decision "On the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate possible facts of violations of Ukrainian legislation and abuse of office by the President of the Ukrainian Football Association, Head of the Committee on the Budget of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Eighth Appeal by Pavelek in deciding on the financing and implementation of the budget programme "Building of football fields with artificial coverage in Ukraine" in 2017-2018." Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:36:53]] For 260 Orders adopted in general. Thank you. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 214, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 26, "European Solidarity" – 0, "Fatherhood" – 2, "For the Future" – 5, "Voice" – 11, "non-fractional" – 2. Jaroslav Železniak. Jaroslav Ivanovich with motive. Out of procedure, huh? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u200	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to go to Bill 2116 - on the DBR so that we can look at it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u201	It goes, as far as I can tell, to the State Bureau of Investigation, right? Yeah. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion to move on to this issue. Can we cross over or should we vote? Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote a proposal to change the order of the day, namely, to consider the issue of Bill 2116. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[14:38:16]] For 246 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the word for the report is given to the Head of the Committee on Law Protection of the Monastery Denis Anatoliyevich on the draft Law on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the State Bureau of Investigation on Improving the Activities of the State Bureau of Investigation (Registration No. 2116).
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u202	Good day, dear fellows, the honourable presiding officer! Your opinion is proposed by the Committee on Law Protection for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation on improving the activities of the DBR. The bill received 328 amendments, of which 123 were partially or editorially rejected, 205 amendments were rejected. As a result of the committee's work, we have the following positions. First. The State Bureau of Investigation changes its status from the central executive branch of law enforcement to the state law enforcement authority. The other one. State Bureau of Investigation. The Director of the D.B.I. is given the authority to make decisions and to take full responsibility for the results of the D.B.I. Third. The control function of Parliament is increasing. In particular, the Supreme Council, on the basis of a review of the DBD Director’s report on the results of his body’s activities during the calendar year, may find the work of the DBD unsatisfactory, which in turn may be the basis for his dismissal. Four. With a view to ensuring the continuity of investigations into the Maydan case, it is envisaged that the prosecution authorities and prosecutors investigating the Maydan case may be transferred to the D.B.I. without having to conduct a competition. Thus, in view of the substantial change in the scope of the Director’s powers and the change in the status of this body since the Act became effective, the mandate of the Director of the DBR and its deputies has been suspended in time and the process of relaunching the State Bureau of Investigation has begun. The Committee on Law Protection at its meeting approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt Bill 2116 as a second reading and as a whole as a law with further technical legal work. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u203	Thank you, Dennis Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that we do not go in an articleistic manner. [[B in m in s a l in]] Me, look. On what right do you insist, Arthur Volodymyrovich? Which course of action do you insist on? What's not included in your application? 2nd? It's not yours. If you are Frolov, yes, then please move to the "Serve of the People". Honorable colleagues whose rights were not taken into account by you. Taras Ivanovich Batenko, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u204	Well, in principle, dear friends, almost all our adjustments are off-limits. So let's work on the procedure, the more time we took, the longer we went to the third hour of the day. So all the corrections, Dmitri Alexanderovich, starting with 11th, mine, and collectives that were rejected. Can I start?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u206	So this is number 11, which was rejected. The bottom line is that this right here we propose to preserve the collegiate principle of the work of the State Bureau of Investigation, which will avoid the danger of concentrating all powers and weights of management in the hands of the director of the Bureau and will guarantee the independence of the State Bureau of Investigation. Please put her to the vote. The same is true of this point, which is another 15, which I also want to put to the vote. Regulation No. 11 and Amendment No. 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u207	The position of the committee on these two rights. We'll put the vote on a stand-alone basis. 11 and 15 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u208	It is this bill that clears the principle of collegiate law enforcement. This experiment did not justify itself at all. And I hope that more of these experiments with the law enforcement system aren't going to happen. The unity of governance means the sole responsibility for the activities of the organs. The committee therefore supported the sole responsibility and authority of the Director of the DBR and its deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u209	Thank you. Dear colleagues. You insist, yes, Taras Ivanovich? I'm betting on the vote number 11 of the Batenka People's Deputies. She's not supported by the committee. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:15]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Amendment number 15, People's Chamber of Batenka. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[14:43:34]] For-75 The decision is not taken. What other changes will you insist on? Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, this is an absolutely principled issue of rights 302 and 303. 302th counted, 303rd rejected, and they apply to the basic mechanism of recruitment of people in the D.B.I. I ask you to concentrate very much. When we passed the law, we agreed, and this Supreme Council voted 40 by 60. 40 employees could be assigned to the D.B.I., they had the right to participate in the competition, those who had the experience of working in law enforcement. 60 percent of the people should be recruited into those who have experience in the field of law. They added "or in law enforcement" to the first reading. That is, so you can take retired and former police officers, prosecutors, whoever you want. It's now confirmed until the second reading of "in law enforcement or in other military formations." So now we're going to form the D.B.I. even from ex-military. It's completely degraded.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u211	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u212	This right here is totally undermining the essence of this law. So 302 rights, I'm going to say no, and I'm going to support 303 that leaves the primary model of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u213	303, yes, do you insist on voting? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting the number 303 of the Osadchuk People's Deputies to the vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u214	The committee's position is to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u215	I'm betting on the vote number 303, People's Deputy Osadchuk. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[14:45:55]] For-84 For 84. The decision is not taken. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u216	I understand the initiators of the law who experimentally want to erase the collegiate principle of forming the State Bureau of Investigation. Okay, we can accept that somewhere, understanding how difficult it is for us to release officials, but not the same level as the head of the D.B.R., but the officials in many ministries and offices. But I insist on 82, which provides, by analogy with the NABA Act, where it is determined that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is initiating the issue of the release of the Director of the DBD in a number of cases of such liberation. Let us preserve the principles and influences of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the initiator of the issue of the release of the head of the DBR. Please put this question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u217	What's the correcting number?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u218	The number is 82nd, right, Taras Ivanovich? 82nd. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u219	The committee determined what it could do. In this regard, a procedure for the liberation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed. The committee, on the other hand, suggested that the director should report, and the Supreme Council may find this report unsatisfactory, which is the basis for the further release of such a director. So the Supreme Council's control function here is definitely reinforced.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u220	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 82 of the Batenka People's Deputies to the vote. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[14:47:54]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Cannot initialise Evolution's mail component. Cimbaluk Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u221	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, I'd like to ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give you three minutes, I'll make every amendment and I won't insist on a vote if I may. Dear Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, I ask you to give me three minutes in all directions, and then I will not insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u222	All right, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u223	Thank you. Mikhailo Tsimbaluk, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, when we saw the draft of this Law on the State Bureau of Investigation proposed by the President, we really thought that by the second reading, this bill would be improved and it would create conditions for this body, then the central executive authority, and now the law enforcement authority, to work effectively. What happened? In the process of reprocessing to second reading, this became a different draft law altogether. I would like, by the way, to give the floor today to the deputy of the Supreme Council, acting head of the D.B.R. Mr. Roman Truby, to express himself in this regard. I'd like to focus on a few things. When the committee head says it's the last time we create a central executive body and then turn it into law enforcement, we have a similar document on the creation of the State Bureau of Financial Investigation, which is proposed as the central executive body. Now essentially. We really throw or exclude the Supreme Council from the state Bureau of Investigation process. At present, it is central, it is, more faithfully, a law enforcement body that is directly subordinated to the President of the State, and it gives the head of the State Bureau of Investigation the right to fully appoint interlocutors, to create, in his own opinion or in the opinion of those who propose to him, the territorial authorities of the State Bureau of Investigation, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, to develop and fully manage a state-of-the-art enquiries. As a result, we believe that General Kožemyakin, who was the head of the Committee of Law - Protection Activities in the previous call, is unacceptable. What's more, we know the position of the European structures and the Venice Human Rights Commission that they've approved the previous editorial. We are in favour of this draft law in the second reading and will not vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u224	Thank you. Who else would like to speak in their own way? Taras Ivanovich Batenko. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u225	Amendment number 106. Dear friends, we are, in fact, calling on parliamentarians to prevent us from overly narrowing the possibilities of the release process -- but we have already narrowed down the release of the head of the DBD -- but also the appointment of the head of the DBD if it is possible for the Supreme Council to influence this process. It is therefore proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be given the opportunity to participate in the appointment of the Director of the DBR within its constitutional powers by adopting the Ukrainian law on the appointment procedure. I ask you to consider this amendment and vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u226	Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u227	The law provides for a procedure of appointment in its contents, so it is rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u228	Thank you. I'm betting on a vote of 106 national MP Batenka, and the committee didn't count it or support it. Please identify and vote. [[14:52:24]] For-81 81. The decision is not taken. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, after how we clean up the collegiate principle and the potential for the influence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u230	What's the readjustment, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u231	Amendment 116. This amendment is called upon not to remove the DBR from the control of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as the higher executive body in the structure of the authorities. Please ensure that the Cabinet of Ministers can influence the DBR. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u232	Dear colleagues! Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u233	The position of the committee that the DBR should be referred to the state law enforcement body, which was in the notes of the administration five years ago when the law was adopted. That's why we're on the move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u234	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote number 116 of the Batenka People's Deputies. The committee didn't support her. Please identify and vote. [[14:53:33]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Next item. Taras Ivanovich Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u235	Dear friends, I understand that we still want to enact laws here, not under a specific majority and not under a specific person, but we want to build a democratic rule of law, but I'm asking for confirmation of the 320. Dmitry Alexanderovich, please set up a 320 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u236	Once again, Taras Ivanovich, what's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u237	Edit 320 for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u238	320? Please prepare for the vote and take your seats. Now let's do 320. And there was a request from Osadchuk, number 302, to put them on the stand. I heard. I repeat, there was an offer by Batenko Taras Ivanovich to place on confirmation the claim 320 and Osadchuk Andri Petrovich asked for confirmation of the application 302. Do I get it right? Yeah? Not anymore? Yeah. Okay. Please prepare for the vote. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u239	This amendment refers to the principle of restarting the DBR management. In view of the significant change in the powers of the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation and the change in the status of the body, we believe that in this case it is necessary for a competitive commission to elect a new Director of the DBD.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Committee position on 320 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u241	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u242	Support me. Dear colleagues, I put 320 to the vote, it was counted by the committee. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please support and vote, Amendment 320. [[14:56:22]] For 259. Edit included. Regulation 302. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" - 209, "European Solidarity" - 20, "Voice" - 18, "non-factional" - 12. Dear colleagues, number 302. [[Noise Nodes]] I'll bet you a vote. the position of the committee. Please prepare for the vote on 302 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u243	It needs to be supported, otherwise. We have no longer supported Mr. Osadczuk's 303, which is why we need to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u244	Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 302. Oddzuk Andri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u245	Once again, colleagues, I explained before. Now we're degrading the whole logic of the DBR model. Instead of law specialists, we want to recruit ex-military, ex-police, liberated police officers, whoever. So if you didn't support my amendment, I would suggest at least not to support an amendment that is now approved, and then, at least, we will remove the former military that we now want to take, and we will leave the former police officers, as it is now written in the first reading. So I think it's absolutely critical right now not to support, not to confirm the 302. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u246	Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 302. The committee supported her and asked for her support. Do I get it right? Dear colleagues, I'll bet you 302. Please support and vote. [[14:58:26]] For 256 The decision is taken, the amendment is taken into account. Dear colleagues, what kind of papers are you going to insist on? Gregory Mamka. What's the readout? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u247	I will insist on all my statutes, and I will ask them to vote. Why? Because, for the time being, there may not be time for national MPs to refer to the documents that the secretariat distributes, and the committee manager does not say. I would like to draw attention to Amendment No. 6, which states that the State’s law enforcement body is tasked with preventing, detecting, stopping, exposing crimes. I want to say that under the law there is a complete conflict of interest with the Constitution of Ukraine. Also, article 116. A remark was made by the Legal Authority that the rule directly conflicted with article 116 of the Constitution, also paragraph 7 and paragraph 9 of the 1. Without any change to the Constitution of Ukraine, this bill will be dead. It's just us.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u248	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u249	I want to point out that we are also doing a law enforcement body that will be directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine. President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u250	Thank you. What other regulations do national MPs insist on? Huh? Again, I didn't hear. Please turn on Mommy's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u251	Place the 6th for confirmation first.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u252	One more number. You.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u253	6 readjustment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u254	6 clearance for confirmation. Please take your seats. Are you the author of the amendment? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u255	Thank you. I don't insist on the right, I don't understand who gave me the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u256	Gorbenko Ruslan. What was Puziyczuk? Turn on Ruslan's hunchback, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u257	Good afternoon, colleagues. I ask you to vote in favour of 93.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u258	Dear colleagues, we have 3 p.m. a question of "The Different." There's something more important to us, well, to me, is the laws than to talk. But there is, yes, we voted. There may be other suggestions. Yes, sir. Let's listen to every faction. Janchenko Galina Igorovna, "Serial of the People" faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u259	Fellows, since we have begun to consider this bill and have already considered half the rights, there is a proposal to continue the consideration of the bill and also to look at "Variance." Please put the chairman to the vote -- to continue the consideration of this bill -- it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u260	Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u261	Colleagues, we have treated with respect all the decisions we have made today. These decisions were final. We have to respect ourselves, first of all. To be honest, I was surprised this morning why we don't support requests to the President of our colleagues. But this is a very clear question: without knowing which bill to consider, we voted in favour of working until 3 p.m. and giving our colleagues the opportunity to speak from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. We are now interfering with the work of our colleagues, denying them the right to speak. And once again, I want to say that the deadlines are set, we're already set. And now we don't have the right to change the mode of work today. The time for making decisions is over. We can't make changes. Please respect yourself and the Supreme Council as a whole and implement your own decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u262	That's the Supreme Council's decision, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u263	And the law isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u264	Irina Volodymyrna Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u265	Dear colleagues, it is obvious that we are now considering an extremely important law. Our faction similarly prepared a series of amendments for him. And we want them bugged. And the practice of the day is that if all the amendments to the law are not considered, its consideration is carried over, these amendments, on the next sessional day. That's why it's going to be like this right now. Now it's "Victory." I want to remind you that it was you, the "servants," who put it out of order on the day-to-day, and that it wasn't, the football Tsk, although it was possible to review the DBR law during that time. Your troublemaker, you know, he's already led you into some kind of chaos and nonsense. We also understood why our colleague, Váterović, was not registered today. The court of cassation has just challenged the decision of the CEC. And you, Mr. Razumkov, really played these games. We express our indignation at the fact that today our colleague Razumkov was not sworn to you and you are now trying to take away the opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u266	First of all, I'd like to remind you that it was your faction that took a 30-minute break, and that's why we're not in time to consider this bill. As for the second one. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two factions, two factions, yes, I agree, but one of them was yours. There's another question. In fact, I'm going to learn from you that there is a court decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u267	No, I didn't mention the faction, I said your faction. I didn't mention it. Voice. Who's with the Voice? Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u268	In fact, we are now in the conflict of the Rules because the Rules do not allow us to move on to another issue when the previous one is not finished. That's why we support the offer of colleagues from the "Serve of the People" to finish this question and move on to another question of "Variance."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u269	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have two suggestions. The first sentence is to continue the consideration of the matter. It's a procedural question, and we can now consider it by voting, or moving on to the Miscellaneous. I think we should put this to a vote in the hall. The decision of the Supreme Council will be -- and let's figure out what we should do next: either do it differently, or adopt laws. Please prepare for the vote. Dmitry Valeriovich Lubinets. And then we vote. It's a motive. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u270	We already have a tradition: I'm speaking and after this vote. But, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u271	And you see how effective that is?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u272	Dmitry Alexanderovich, I would ask you not to call the section "Variance" in such words that it seems that the national MPs here in the consideration of "Variance" are inexplicably engaged in something. All national deputies have the right to take advantage, to go to the rostrum, as laid down in the Law on the Rules. That's the first one. The other one. Don't manipulate the people's deputies into the districts next week. There too, the majors will go and do business. We voted ourselves to start consideration at 15 hours, to move on to the "Variance." Allow us to take advantage of our right to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. At present, you limit our constitutional right to use your authority to the extent that it is absolutely illegal. That's why I'm calling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u273	A recess is not announced during the consideration of the matter. Nestor Ivanovich, you are an experienced national MP. After consideration, we will definitely announce a recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] I understand. I can't hear you. Who? I understand, well, that's your right. This is the right of national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergei Vladislavovich Vlasenko. Sobolen. Sorry, Sergey Vladislavovich Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u274	Dear colleagues, everyone understands why this is happening. There is a decision by the European Commission that gave us the right status as a visa-free country, which allowed us to sign the Association Agreement, which clearly determined that the appointment of the head of the DBR was taking place on competitive grounds. What you're doing in this law, you're modifying the first part where you're proposing to the President that he be appointed. Do you think you're doing? Read the 320 amendment. Do you have a conscience to do that? There are clear commitments made by the State. Throw away this 320 article. Have a contest if you don't like someone. The President has no right. Read the Constitution. It's written in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u275	I give my word to the head of the committee. And after that break. But I look forward very much to the representatives of the distinguished factions who are so in favor of the "Variance" for that time period between, I take it, about fifteen and four. Nestor Ivanovich, I personally invite you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u276	According to a valid article of the DBR Act and a proposal made by the committee, the Director of the DBR selects a competition commission of nine persons: three representatives of the President, three representatives of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and three representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And since that decision, he has been appointed president. Please, let us read the law correctly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess on the request of two factions. I'm waiting for all the people's deputies after a break in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u278	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You see, there are strange things happening in the Council: Nestor Ivanovich Šufrić moved to the "Slut of the People" faction. Not to the sector, it's not a football field. I give the floor to Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk regarding the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u279	Fellow dignitaries, you will not believe us in another joy: according to article 60 pr. I report to the Supreme Council on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the ninth call of the interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine-OAU: Co-operation, Investment, Partnership". The National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kovalova, was elected head of this association.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u280	Thank you, Ruslan Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for the performance. It's on "Rizzle," of course, on "Rizzle." The D.B.I. can't be considered. But please tell me, do we have colleagues who are really well understood in the Rules: can we go to the Difference when we consider the matter essentially in the second reading? Ivan Grigorovitch, please say. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u281	Dear Mr. Head! I'll tell you, there was a little bit of a sacramental phrase here, and I'll say it again, not everybody likes it, it sounds like: The Supreme Council is always right. That's how it sounded, and you've seen that no matter what we do, no matter what we don't want to do, no matter what the rules of the Rules are, there's always going to be pros and cons. So I always remember this phrase: The Supreme Council of Law. It's when most, the real majority, the consolidated majority vote in favour of some other decision. It is desirable that this be voted by all, representatives of all political forces, and then the Supreme Council always has rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u282	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, wait, wait, we didn't sign up, because we don't understand whether we can speak or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, wait, wait. Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev. About the Rules. Please tell me if the Supreme Council of Ukraine today can, in the second reading of the bill, essentially move on to the 'Virgin'. Is there a violation of the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u283	To be honest, he can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u284	He can't. I mean, right now. Now, if I understand correctly, your colleagues who approached the Head of the Supreme Council with an offer to take a break, and then move on to the Miscellaneous, did they deliberately, as you think? Thank you. But, really, we can't go out in the "Virgin," respected colleagues. We can sign up for the performance. [[B in m in s a l in]] The signal vote for what? I'm out of procedure. Nestor Ivanovich Šufrich from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u285	Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich. I don't think "Miss" is a bill. Therefore, the discontinuation of the draft law in view of what we have come out of the due time cannot be a reason for us to move on to other procedural matters that are provided for in the Rules. That's the first one. The other one. Let me quote my colleague, unfortunately, he is no longer with us, it was really an outstanding speaker -- Mr. Ivy, who said, "The Supreme Council can do anything if not everything -- almost everything." And the third. If we are in the process of dealing with the issue of law, ask who is to be amended, and then put this law to the vote as a whole, by 16 hours we have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u286	Look, it's possible because we're in a rather strange situation right now. You rightly mentioned John Stepanovich Plush, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as John Grigorovich mentioned. But now, before you filed this motion for a recess, you approached me as the Head of the Supreme Council, that we could not continue to consider this bill, and took a break to move on to the Miscellaneous after that. However, as noted by colleagues, we cannot move on to the "Variable" because we are in the framework of the draft law in fact. It's impossible to do that, because some factions have come up with an offer that can't be undone. But it's not possible to continue working under the "Variance" either. That's why I'm proposing. By procedure, Maria Mikolayevna. Pavlenko Rostislav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u287	Dmitri Alexanderovich is honorable, friends, the question is simply that there are different kinds of activities in Parliament: both the consideration and adoption of drafts are one type of activity, the speeches of the people's deputies, the queries and everything else are another type of activity. And the "Variance" has a separate time in the Rules, and it's a separate kind of activity from the consideration of issues, that's all. So we took the time to consider the matter, and we had to move it for two weeks. And in "Variance," if there are speakers, we can listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u288	I don't think that's entirely possible, because it's not possible to interrupt the consideration of other issues that are covered by the Rules. "Various" is exactly what the Rules provide, so I'm going to let you disagree. Dear colleagues, I suggest you finish the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Wait, wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u289	Guys, I'm sorry. I found another announcement. Pursuant to article 60, prime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules another interfractional “Invest in Ukraine” MP, the head of this association, have been elected as the national deputy to Vladina Dara Artemovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u290	Shall we close? Ladies and gentlemen. [[Noise Nodes]] We can't perform. No, except in cases of motive, I can give you my word. It's urban for reasons. Urbanski turned to his motives. Please. Lubinet Dmitry Valeriovich, with motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u291	Dear colleagues, first. Dmitri Alexanderovich! Dmitri Alexanderovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u292	Yes, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u293	I've held my hand for ten minutes, you're basically not giving me the right to make a statement. That's the first one. It's different.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u294	We had a break later.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u295	Let's not make jokes. I realize it's very funny for everyone, but it all started with the fact that we started to change the calendar plan as we wanted. Secondly, we began to vote in favour of continuing to break the law. So let's not turn the work of the Supreme Council into that it's been transformed before. If we stick very clearly to the rules of the Rules, which is, first, as soon as we're done with the bill, and you see it's Friday, and it's already 13th or more, you're automatically going to the question of "Different." Next. You could not announce a break during the consideration of the bill. It was necessary to wait for something to be voted on, and only then to announce the break. So if we stick to the law, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u296	It's different here. Look, first of all, we've got as much "Virgin" as we used to have on the Supreme Council on Friday morning. That's the situation. The other one. I'm not sure you're right about breaking the law. If there's a violation of the law, you can turn around and point out where you and I broke the law. Because you are also the national deputy of Ukraine, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made such a decision. Makarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u297	I'm seeing in the hall almost fully a faction of the Voice political party, I see European Solidarity, I see Fatherland and the Unity Group. I wish I could. "For the future," I'm sorry. I would like to let the Chief of the Supreme Council know whether the Supreme Council is now in charge of continuing its meetings. The Head of the Supreme Council shows how many slots are in the slots. Please hold a vote in registration mode, such a signal vote, so that people can understand how many people are in the room right now, and whether we're authorized to even consider whether it's "Crazy" or whether it's a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u298	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich. Different doesn't provide for registration, just like we can't register twice at a meeting. Because we're in the morning. I'm sorry, I can't do second registration, third registration, fifth registration, she's only one. And if we had an evening session with you to start in five minutes, we'd be able to register. If we're talking about whether the Council is competent or not right now, there is no provision for any decision to be taken in the course of the consideration of the various issues, so we can't vote for it either, and that's what the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provide. [[B in m in s a l in]] And we can't look at it not because there's a lot or a lot of people in this room, but because we're in a very unclear place. [[B in m in s a l in]] From the place, please, with a motive. You spoke out of motive when you considered the matter. Maria Mikolayevna, you spoke on this issue. Bakumov Alexander Sergiyovich is a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u299	The honourable presiding, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, such an announcement and request. As far as the media is concerned, artillery depots have begun to explode in Kharkishte, and there is a proposal for the National Security and Defence Committee to take stock of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u300	Dear colleagues, I think joking is a really serious situation. That's why I'm addressing the Ukrainian National Deputies, representatives of the Defence Committee, to meet and hold meetings. Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u301	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we are traveling around the districts. The next week, when we talk about Saturday, it's going to be the memories of Ukraine's Holodomor 1932-33 years, where the brain of the nation was destroyed, as Rafael Lemkin wrote, the author of the concept of genocide. The consequences of this crime are felt today. A large number of cultural media, villages, were destroyed, and they were the original bearers of the national code. I want to stress as the Head of the Memorial of Vasil Stus's name, that we will be able to join the series of actions that will take place this year on the occasion of the 86th anniversary of the Holocaust. And we must carry out the work of remembering, remembering prayer, and remembering those people who were destroyed in Ukraine for more than 7 million years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u302	Maria Mikolayovna Ionova
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u303	Thank you. You have some very selectiveness, Mr. Head, you want to give someone a word, you don't want to give it to anyone. That's the first one. Second, the entire People's Servants campaign was shouted that the previous Supreme Council had not worked on Fridays. I want to point out that even when we were looking at the Electoral Code, the Language Act, we're always here. Anyway, Friday was the "Craze" section. We are approached by voters, they want us to sound their problems and ask the competent authorities to hear, study and respond to them. So please, we are very insistent that there be a "Victane" section where we can give a speech and respond to our citizens and voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u304	Thank you, Maria Mikolayevna. But I think it's my personal opinion that it's important to the voters who are calling you not to talk about it, but to do so. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And we've almost finished the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After that, Urbanski?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u305	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. Dmitry Alexanderovich, two minutes from all the Lugansk national deputies. The situation is very difficult in the city of Severodonetsk. I have been calling on Parliament for three years to consider the question of the re-elections in the city of the Sevjerodonetské gang, which is robbing every day. 700 million dollars were stolen by a Butkov gang, killed by Sergey Samarsky, 76 criminal acts violated, none investigated! Every day, once again, every citizen in the city of Severodonetska is robbed. I was approached by 50,000 residents at all reception facilities. People don't know what to do anymore. They went to the rally. We went out to one governor, to the other, to the third. Do they have to go to the Supreme Council? Please put regulation 2048 to the vote next plenary week and vote. The mayor of the city has already called on you and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u306	My love, Dmitry Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u307	Dmitri Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u308	Valeriovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u309	Hello! Good afternoon! My name is Loveth Dmitry, 177th District, Kharkiv Region. I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Potteruk. Honourable Alexia Valeriyovich, in Kupyansk, Kharkiv district, as a result of the criminal activity of the city’s leaders in the destruction of the centralized heating system and the criminal inaction during the preparation for the heating season, the people of Kupyan and the budgetary organizations are still without heat. Schools and kindergartens are closed. The fundamental constitutional rights of citizens to ensure proper living conditions guaranteed by the State have been violated. In this regard, I ask you to intervene in the immediate application of natural gas to the festering of the city. I also refer to the management of the law enforcement authorities to register criminal conduct against officials of the state administration and local self - government of the Kharkiv region, the city of Kupyansk and the heat -, gas - and - gas companies responsible for the collapse of the heating season in Kupyansk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-11-15-m0.u310	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am sorry to say, but the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the morning meeting, is over. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. I thank everyone, and I hope so. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can't hear you. I can't hear you. Continue? I think next time. Here, I see that there's just an increase in the number of national MPs left over. Another two or three Fridays from the Miscellaneous, and we'll be working here, at least 226 will be in the hall. Thank you.
