ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. So, colleagues, please prepare for registration. You're ready, aren't you? I'd like you to sign up. Please register. [[10:03:53]] 294 deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, at the age of 90, went to the Eternity of Yuri Musketik, the Hero of Ukraine, one of the classics of modern Ukrainian literature. In our memory, Yuri Musketeer will remain a great intellectual, a writer who has become a classic in his life. His works are being studied in Ukrainian schools. From myself, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I express my sincere sympathy to the family, close and friends of Yuri Mikhailovich Musketik. Eternal memory and eternal glory of Yuri Musketik I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] I would like to report that members of the government, headed by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubi, are taking part in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please welcome the government. And I would like to report that today is the birthday of Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Anatoliyovich Kirilenko, the great wrestler for Ukrainian language, for Ukrainian identity. But before we go to "the hour of questions to the government," I want to report that two factions from the People's Front and the Radical Party have come to the fore. And they're ready to replace the break with the stand. And I'd like to invite you to the speech by Oleg Valeriovich Laska, 3 minutes. And then it's an hour of questions to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Yesterday, a representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Stefanchuk, on the air of one of the TV channels, began to invent reasons not to sign, without exaggeration, the historic impeachment law and the provisional commission of inquiry, which was adopted yesterday by the Supreme Council. We fought for five years for this law to be passed. It was registered in 2014. I met with President Dustenk several times and convinced him that his faction and he would personally uphold this law. Because there can be no such thing as when there are people outside the law who are not responsible and who are outside the control of Ukrainian citizens and Ukrainian society. Yesterday Parliament made an archival decision at last. Got it. I believe that the adoption of this law is a celebration of the peoples of power when Parliament receives real instruments of control on behalf of Ukrainian citizens and establishes a mechanism of responsibility for the President if he commits these crimes. And what do we hear from the President's team? Greensky told the election that he would adopt the Law on impeachment, and he wanted everyone to answer. After the election, we hear his assistants say: The law is not like that. And they're looking for reasons not to sign it. It's actually a test for Zelenski. If he commits to this law, it means that he is simply afraid of responsibility, that he continues to create a single clan in a country of government leaders who are not controlled by citizens who are outside the law who want to do so, and are not responsible for anything. So I'm asking Zelensky not to invent a reason to pledge this law, but to gain the courage to sign the Law on impeachment procedure, on the interim commission of inquiry -- and to do what he promised the Ukrainians before the elections, not to do the caseivity: they passed the law, they didn't accept it; the one who accepted the bad, mine is better. And in summary, like the removal of parliamentary immunity: 20 years go to the election with slogans to remove parliamentary immunity, the election ends, and everyone forgets what they promised. I'm asking Zelensky not to turn into a powder. Dusty promised open electoral lists in the 14th year, to plant three of his friends and overcome corruption. Instead of planting three of his friends, 33 of his friends, Dustyenko, planted on corruption streams. Greensky is doing the same thing today: he's planting his friends and business partners on the same corruption streams instead of blocking them and the money to go to the budget; instead of giving open electoral lists and a new quality to parliament, he's making closed electoral lists; instead of signing the impeachment law, he's looking for reasons to make a commitment. Society is tired of lying, allowing Ukrainians to control power. We made our move, step in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a delegation from the Human Rights Committee of the Seima of the Republic of Lithuania headed by the Human Rights Committee in Ukraine. The tall guests are now on the balcony of the sitting room. Let us welcome our honored guests and wish them a fruitful visit to our nation. [[Applause]] Thank you. And, colleagues, we're moving on to an hour of questions to the government. And I invite you to speak to Deputy Prime Minister of Regional Construction Development and HKG of Ukraine, Gennady Grigorovich Zubka. Mr. Hennaday, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is now in the country that we have the opportunity to sum up the key reforms that have been undertaken by this office of the Supreme Council. It was here that difficult decisions were made. It was here that we discussed and discussed how the country would move towards the European Union and how we would implement those European directives that brought us closer, Ukrainians, by quality of life, by standards, by relationship, to European standards and standards, and by quality of life. And I would like to tell you once again about the results of our joint work, the Supreme Council, the government, so that when we reform our energy efficiency, for the first time in 27 years at all, we've drawn attention to the fact that European countries that don't spend, don't waste energy waste, but really invest in energy efficiency, actually reduce consumption, and thus actually reduce our consumers' accounts. I'm not just talking about the housing sector right now. I'm also talking about our jobs in industry, in transport and in energy. Once again, I would like to point out that it is our joint work that has enabled us to adopt key bills. Bills (please include a slide) that primarily allows the housing sector to form a responsible owner, allow him to take responsibility and start to manage his property with accounting. This is the step Ukraine has not taken since 1992. This is the step that any European country has taken to reform energy efficiency. Having passed the Common Property Act, the matter of accounting is a matter of priority for management. And it was together that we worked on the Commercial Accounting Act, which allowed us to account for heat consumption, water supply, and thus see what we can do to reduce the burden on the Ukrainian family by reducing costs. We also moved to adopt a law that would correspond to the 27th, 31st European directive, this is the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act. If we had an energy certificate long ago on washing machines, household appliances, the European family certificate had only appeared in Ukraine over 40 years ago. Thanks to the adoption of the Energy Efficiency of Buildings Act, we have introduced the possibility of certifying it, allowing it to be analyzed, audited and recommending to residents what is needed to reduce its consumption by 40.50 percent, 60 percent. And now we have the results when it's actually going down 3 times in energy consumption in terms of energy efficiency. It is also impossible if we do not talk about the tools that the State provides to carry out such measures. And together with you, we passed the Energy Efficiency Fund Act. Together with you, we have included in Ukraine's budget expenditure from the state budget on "heat" loans, and this has enabled us to have a financial tool to move towards modernizing our housing sector. And I would also like to say that it was the law that was passed by the Supreme Council on Housing and Utilities that finally established the relationship between the consumer and the service providers, without translating the costs that our households do not bear into households at the expense of utilities. And that's why it's one of the other tasks, because it's a contractual campaign that starts today, when every consumer, by making a contract to provide one or another service (either it's heat, or it's water, or it's house management, or it's good) has not only the ability to pay for that service, but it's the ability to ask what kind of community service has given us, the extent to which these services have given us, and the quality of those services. To allow for a recount, if the service was not fully provided, to allow for a recalculation, if it is inconclusive, and in general to establish a normal relationship between the consumer and the service provider. And I'd also like to point out that when we started together in the 14th year (the next slide), we saw that the number of OSBBs, the number of managers working in the houses, was only about 13,000, now we have 33,000 just OSBBs. This is a union of joint owners who have more houses than their own number, OSBB. We already have houses about 27,000 with managers, and this allows us to talk about the formation of a market for the responsible owner who is willing not only to manage his property, but to upgrade it, ready to improve it. And most of all, not only do we increase the possibility of reducing the cost of heat, increasing the life span of such a house, and increasing the quality of life in such a house. The next step, and it's very important, is commercial accounting. You can't manage energy consumption if you fail your standard service. That is why it is a decisive step in the introduction of commercial accounting in order to account for the service that is being served. In order to pay for the service we received, not the bill, we introduced a commercial account. And I'm sorry that since 2014, when the house heat bill was 23 percent, we're now 80 percent in the 18th year, and the job is to get 100 percent of the house bill for the multi-floor sector during 2019-2020. I think this is the step that will enable us to start managing qualityly at the level of the household, at the level of unifying the joint owners. I'd like to point out once again that once we've launched energy efficiency programs, I also want to thank our international partners, because together with us, when we started the hot loan program three years ago, an IQ energy program was launched by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which works next door, and it showed a very good result, but now I'm only going to talk about heat loans. Warm loans, three years working, have shown the possibility to co-finance the construction costs of our Ukrainian families and have enabled almost 605,000 households to obtain such loans. I would like to point out once again that if I looked at 605,000 households, I could compare it to the volume of cities like Raven, Winnitz, Ternopil, Zitomir. Imagine how the program works, but its effectiveness needs to be continued and further improved. I would also like to point out that 3,000 362 joint owners have benefited from such "warm" loans. We have launched, together with the state-owned program of "hot" loans, another 140 municipal programs that finance additionally to the state budget also a pooling of co-owners of thermomodernization measures, and if the state financed and granted 40 percent grants, the municipal programmes are funding 30, 20, 25 percent to support and reduce the burden on landlords. A search engine has also been launched that deals with the more municipal sector, the municipal program, but it's a mechanism that reduces the cost and burden on the municipal sector and reduces the cost of such taxes in order to send them to energy efficiency measures. Once again, this Parliament, along with our government, has taken steps that have not been taken in 27 years. Now, after the Energy Efficiency Act has been passed in Parliament, we have the opportunity to involve 43 higher education institutions in the preparation of our energy auditors. They're working, they're already certification, they're teaching, they're certification, they're issuing certificates in two directions: engineering network certification, and they're modernizing fence structures. And I would like to point out that over 600 already are energy auditors who are certified, who are working and who are willing to provide services in the energy efficiency market. And over 145 certificates have already been issued to our OSBB, which can see how they're actually happening. There may be a modernization in which their houses are located. I want to stress again why certification and auditing are very important. We saw on the first certificates that two twin houses, which were born in 1965, which. One of them did virtually nothing in the years of his existence after his modernization, and the other near the building, which was modernized by the 50th Pinopolistrol, who changed the windows in the driveways, which invested money and wanted to reduce his energy, found that they were completely on the same threshold of energy efficiency, virtually in Class G. And this letter G corresponds to the entire energy efficiency class now in the country. So now we need to move to Class A, Class B, Class C, as we do practically in European countries. And it's the support from state hot loan instruments that the Energy Efficiency Fund should be able to get out of G class to Class A in the coming years. Once again, when we launch the Energy Efficiency Fund, we now have more than 300 applications from OSBB, which are running the first 15 pilot projects. The Supreme Council, after adopting the 2019 budget, has set aside funds for the cofinancing of such projects. Our international European partners, together with the German government, have set up a multidonor fund that is co-financed by such measures. Above all, we have signed the EU-Ukraine Agreement, which will help and maintain energy efficiency in our country for the next five years. What is important, and where would I like to stop? The transparency of the Fund's work enables us to build a system where the owner can practically conduct actions and receive a grant policy of 50, 60, 70 percent of the compensation for such modernization. And that makes it possible to look at what's practically a load, if we say that if an easy pack is being run and an ITP is being installed, and the overall area of use is modernized, then. And when you get 50 percent and you get a municipal program that can be between 20 percent and 40 percent, the direct load on the landlord can be only 10 percent of the money it takes to run it. If we're talking about complex modernization, it's the package that makes it possible to implement full modernization to compensate for 50 percent. And once again, this is a proposal from our European partners, up to 50 percent, to give another 20 percent of the grant from the multidonor fund in order to get an additional 20 percent out of co-financing in homes where our grantors make up more than fifty percent by number. So we're practically giving motivation today to unite, to take energy-efficient measures, to get technical support, to get financial support and to move the country to the energy efficiency that is in any European country. And what I would like to stress is the modernisation of our utility sector. It's not possible to reduce the cost of an account, even if we reduce the cost and the amount of the consumer's account by reducing costs, unless the efficiency of our utilities increases. And now I want to thank all the local governments, the 41 cities that are modernizing their utilities to increase the efficiency of such enterprises, to reduce costs and to reduce the cost of the gigacalorie or of that cubic metre of water that practically relies on our consumer. 41 cities are now implementing from three projects to one. If you look at, for example, such bright projects as Kamianz-Podilski, when the water canals are virtually being renovated, there is the renovation of the water supply systems, there is the renovation of the heat supply, and this city also introduces alternative energy, with 50 percent reduction in gas consumption for the production of thermal energy. In this direction, we are supported by our international financial partners, such as the World Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And what I'm going to say is that for the city of Kiev, where it's very important, the ecology, the clearing houses, today, a powerful ambitious project started -- this is the modernization of the Bortnicka station of the aeration -- which the Japanese government has given 1 billion dollars, and so we have basically a 40-year loan agreement, we have 15 years of vacation, and we have a little effort to pay this money back so that we can make this upgrade. I would like to stress once again, the first time that the Japanese government opened its JICA representation in Ukraine, which will continue to develop projects funded by the Japanese government, this applies to southern infrastructure and port infrastructure. And I would also like to show that not only are we implementing projects, but we have ambitious projects that we can boast about around the world. You see on the screen now, I've already talked about the boarding station.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u5	Please, I'll add another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u6	I would like to highlight the same Kamyanec-Podilski, where Renkin's technology is implemented, which is a powerful 45-megawatt station, and which allows, virtually today, by reducing gas consumption, to be the third in Europe and the fifth in the world in this kind of technology, to this extent. And I'd also like to say that we're gradually moving away from the consumption of hydrocarbons, we're moving towards the most alternative energy, renewable energy sources, and here we're working on working on the municipal sector, introducing block boilers that will give heat without consuming gas. The 10 megawatt project is the largest blockhouse that works in Slavotici today, and you remember the problem that was two years ago with the start of the heating season right in Slavotici, in the observation zone. So once again, honourable national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people, I want to thank you all once again for not standing outside, for taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u7	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u8	passed very hard and very ambitious bills. But once again, I would like to point out that the distinguished Ukrainian people, the respected common owners, without you, cannot implement these laws. I want to look to your leaders and ask them to implement energy efficiency measures, reduce your household accounts and reduce the monetary burden on the whole country. Energy dependency.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u9	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on from the MP factions and groups to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yes, questions. I'm asking you to do the recording. From the Radical Party to the question is asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u10	I ask the government to explain this paradox to me and the Ukrainians. In Europe, gas prices have fallen again and are the lowest in three years. And in Ukraine, from June 1st to June 1, people again raised their price of gas by 400, and in July, they again promised to raise their prices for gas. Please explain to me where is the market price you promised the Ukrainians? Why does price drop in Europe and increase in Ukraine? We also see government statements asking Naftogazu to lower the price of gas. What is this comedy? Naftogaz is a state company. The Cabinet of Ministers appoints, there the statutes change, the management is assigned, and so on. If the head of Naftogazu Kobolev doesn't carry out the command or lower the price of gas, why do you continue the contract with him, why don't you release him? Why don't you put a person who will do what's best for the country, for the Ukrainians and for the development of Naftogazu? So when you stop playing this comedy, when you actually lower the price of gas and when Ukrainians get a fair price for gas?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u11	Nasalek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u12	Thank you for asking. I answer as Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. But I have to say, NAK "Naftogaz Ukraine" is not part of the department's department. What's more, it's a strange enough organization, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, from which we, as the Ministry of Profiles, cannot get information about gas supply and other economic activities. The prime minister of Ukraine has not once said that the prices that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine defines do not correspond to market prices. And the last meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, we made a change to 293 Orders, where we set up appropriate indicators for NAC "Ukrainian Naftogaz" to implement the gas to the population. I have to say when these indicators are implemented, the price of gas will change to a reduction of about 700 to 800 dollars. Moreover, we fully agree with you and literally two weeks ago I submitted to the Prime Minister of Ukraine exactly what you have heard today. When we analyzed all the markets in Europe, we saw that the price on the stock markets is dropping, and it's dropping quite significantly: from 220 dollars to nearly 160 dollars, and in the Ukraine market, they're increasing. I think the problem of NAC Naftogazu is in the very NAC of Naftogazi of Ukraine. And if NAC Naftogaz and Ukraine's liabilities are done in terms of distribution, when Crushing will be a separate structure and will be responsible for extracting when what the government is doing to allocate system operators, then NAC Naftogaz will do what it needs to do -- be one of the many dealers working in the Ukraine market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u13	Thank you. From the Block of Peter Dustenk of Chicken Volodymyr gives the Dove a word for a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u14	Thank you very much. Vladislav Dove, 197th constituency, Cherkashina. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I don't see the Minister of Education, I have a question for the Minister of Education, I'm asking according to the representative of the Ministry of Education and Science. I work in the district all the time, and I attend preschools in particular. Thus, for four years, teachers have consistently complained that they have never received a pay upgrade in the light of the fact that teachers in schools receive an elevated and modern salary. Please tell me, what steps will the government take to modernize and really improve the very hard work of preschool teachers who care for our children? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u15	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First. There's a clear program about motivations and changes on the question you've given. But Karandy Vadim Anatoliyovich, deputy minister, will answer specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u16	Good afternoon! The Ministry of Education knows this problem, we're working on it. And I hope that, together with the Ministry of Finance in preparing proposals for the 2020 budget, appropriate proposals will be made to raise wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u17	Thank you. From Self-Help to Self-Help, Captain Helen is invited to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u18	Thank you. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. I have a question for the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, the first is rhetorical: are you testing the patience of society? Please tell me, how is the IMF going to react to the decision of the Chief of Police? He promised to release the Chief of the Kyiv region of Mr. Czenov, and instead he now appoints him as Chief of Police for the United Nations Operation. So, first of all, he doesn't have any responsibility, and he also gets promoted and indulgence. Do you want the IMF and the National Police here in Kiev now? Please tell me, what is the Minister of Internal Affairs going to do about this? Are you going to react in some way to this abyss?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u19	Please, Vadim Troyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u20	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Internal Affairs will take your application for control, and then I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u21	Thank you. From Fatherland, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u22	Give me your word. Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Odarchenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u24	The Fatherland faction, Odarchenko. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. Honourable Gennady Grigorovich, almost 500 million have been allocated to the Hersonian region of the state budget. And I'm surprised that no one in Kabmin is in control of this money. Two criminal cases have been broken, and the chief of Cookes has been arrested. The work has already been carried out for 300 million, and the object is not visible at all. I'm actually surprised at how was the Kabmin ruling that allowed you to advance 200 million dollars without getting any act of work done? This is the feeding ground and the home of corruption in the Hersonian region. I'm asking you very much for funding, through the organs of the DABI, to conduct a fundamental examination, and the people behind this corruption must be held accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u25	Please, Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a joint effort of ours to test the actual cost of this bridge crossing. If the funds are allocated there, it's just an infrastructure issue, well, it doesn't fall into my responsibilities. But from the point of view of DABI, we're going to put a check on it at the request of the National MP and check on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u27	Thank you. From the Rebirth Party, Shipko Andry Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u28	I have a question for the government and the minister of infrastructure. I want to inform you that there is such a road, Nicopol-Dnipro R73. Well, you can't call it the road, because people go three or four hours to get to the district center. And there's a nice board: "In the government program, capital repairs 2018-2022." There's a table, there's no explanation. All the residents who live in Nikopola, Crotovia, in the Nicosia region, in the Tokmak district are 350,000 people who say that "we live on an island, we can't get to the district center." There's all the tenders. There's a passport. Only funding is needed. And I'm suggesting that when we redistribute the funds, the government will take this question into account, because this is not my question, and this is the question of 350,000 people who can't get to the district center.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the issue of the government, the prime minister of road infrastructure, the capital repairs of the bridge and the construction of new ones, is very relevant. In recent years, for several decades, these questions have neither been asked nor resolved. Through the development of three-year infrastructure programmes, the government has adopted a programme. And this program, together with a committee of national deputies, which we have conducted three times in the past month and a half for monitoring, has been discussed yesterday. I give the word of Lavrenjuk Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u30	Thank you. Mr. People's Deputy, literally yesterday, this expensive thing you're talking about, under the chairmanship of Stephen Ivanovich, was held by a commission to consider state investment projects. And this part of the road yesterday was unanimously approved of the allocation, the approval of the funding. The Ministry of Finance has supported our initiative. As you say, the project is, the tender was conducted, a decision was made yesterday. It will be properly designed, and I am confident that in the near future work will begin on that part of the road.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u31	From the Opposition Block to the word Sažko is invited. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u32	Good afternoon! Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency. Stepan Ivanovich, I have a question about miners. We put the daily bill 10307 into order yesterday, but because there are manipulations in the Supreme Council, we're all going to the elections, we're going to the Electoral Code. Hence, this law may not be adopted by this office of the Supreme Council. I have a question. 295 million, which was allocated by Kabmin on Wednesday, when the miners get them on the bills? But when is the coal development program going to be adopted? Because these point pours, they don't give anything, they have to develop it, and then the miners will still earn their own wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say that coal industry is really one of the main sectors of Ukraine's national economy. What I'm saying is that the price and efficiency and the market depend on modernizing the mines that we have. In Ukraine, coal reserves operate 33 mines with a total production capacity of 11.7 tons in the control area as of 01.01.19. The cashier’s trust fund in the field is very old, and the deposit of the trust funds is at 1 / 1 The 19th year is 61 percent. So what I'm saying is that there's only one mine -- 3 percent -- that works less than 30 years from the start of the carb. The term of operation of six mines is 18.2 percent, ranging from 30 to 50 years. 15 mines is 45.5 percent, the term of operation is 57-70 years. And 11 mines, 30.4, over 70 years old. What I'm saying is that the government sector in the coal sector in Ukraine is in a critical state. The Prime Minister, the Committees of the Supreme Council in the right direction and have repeatedly heard the issue of technical resupply. Since 2013, there has been a lack of funding for technical resupply. More specifically on this issue will be given the floor of Minister Nasalik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. What's more, you and I work in the coal sector all the time. Question one. As early as 2017, the Coal Development Program was adopted, and the program included funds. I want to support Stepan Ivanovich, without upgrading the result, and in five years, no change has been made. So, dear friends, you can't work hard hammers when you have mechanized complexes. What are we doing now? You asked me 295 million questions. Here's the money from the modernization that's supposed to be, and that's what we took the money from Lysicansk, from South London's 3rd, we're going to pay, we're going back to the rakes that have always been. That's why these 295 million are accepted, these costs, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is now agreement at the Ministry of Finance either today or Monday they will be sent to mining teams. I want to say separately by the bill that Mikhailo Leontijovich just sent to the Supreme Council: on modernization and payment of wages. I would very much ask the people's deputies for this bill to be adopted, otherwise a difficult enough situation will be in the mining teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u35	Thank you. From the People's Front, Yelensky. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u36	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. I have a question for the minister of culture. One of the undeniable achievements of the reforms in the humanitarian field is education reform in general and the reform of art education in particular. I think it's an extremely important investment, not just in the future, but in global competition for the world. And that's why I'm being approached by parents, by teaching groups that say that in places in many areas, dozens of areas are hampered by these reforms. In addition, some rogues begin torpedoing them in Kiev itself, and the Ministry of Culture, they feel, does not provide sufficient support to protect this reform. I'd like to know exactly what the Ministry of Culture is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u37	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u38	In order to make this reform irreversible and what communicative strategies the ministry uses to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u39	Mrs. Svetlana Fomenko, the first deputy minister of culture, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u40	Hello! Thank you so much for asking. In fact, we also think that the reform of art education is one of the most successful of these governments. What are we doing now? First of all, we have a focus group, and we've already planned that every week our communicators will drive the regions and have meetings with representatives of the local authorities, particularly the cultural authorities, the responsibility for this reform, and with representatives of art schools, educators, and parents, which is very important. Secondly, 19 numbers in the walls of the Ministry will go through a focus group that will be called on to find a compromise solution and set up a dialogue with those who are not yet ready for this reform. Why is it sometimes poorly implemented in places? First of all, it's a lack of awareness, and we understand that. Secondly, it is very often a lack of, say, human and human potential to implement such a reform. But I think in the next few months we're going to do all the explaining work and work in the focus groups so that this reform doesn't stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u41	Thank you. And the final question is from Shahov's will. And then there will be questions from the national MPs. Please. Turn on the mic. See if there's a card. Because you see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u42	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear Stéphane Ivanovich, please note that May has already ended, summer has begun, rains are coming, roads in the Luhansk region have not been made, nor are there any current repairs or pit repairs. And for that, it's the government that's responsible for the central roads. In this situation, farmers, small and medium - size businesses, are very excited. Second, the safety of trucks is not available today either: no head or no job. Note this. Sixty tons of cargo goes on crushed roads and so on. Today, those who build a transparent wall on the border seem to drive a reed and crush the road in general. This is the Triotic region, this is the Biokurakin region, this is the Milovsky region, this is the Swatovsky region, the Novopskovsky region, the Station's Lugansk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u43	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u44	We're practically in trouble today. Please note this and answer: When will repair roads in the Luhansk region begin? There are no tenders at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this question is very relevant today for both Donetsk and Luhansk, and in general for the east of Ukraine, for infrastructure projects. In the past, they not only had an effect, but they had also destroyed the road’s base when they were working to repair the pits. At your request, which you gave last time and had a conversation, a joint interministerial council was held, including infrastructure and repair issues and overall strategic road development in our eastern Ukraine. And three important decisions were made. The first decision is that the joint meeting we held set out a plan for 3 years and will be included in the strategic funding plan, including the 20th year. The second solution is that there is a need for capital repairs to promote normal driving and movement, and an increase in freight flow. And the third position. Yesterday at a meeting where eight members of the National Budget Committee, along with the ministries, confirmed the priority of investing in the Luhansk region. At the same time, I am informing you that a number of criminal cases have been disrupted by misappropriation of funds and purposeless use. That was your call, too, and you know it. The second block of your question is about transfiguration. We are now addressing this issue to the Ministry of Infrastructure, and indeed to the Head of Trans-Security, who accepts your parliamentary request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u46	Thank you, colleagues. So let us turn to questions from the national deputies of Ukraine. Please prepare yourself for a record of who intends to question the government. And please turn on the recording system. Germano Vasil Ivanovich, please transfer Schuffritch. Oh, Shurmi, I'm sorry, please. He's giving Igor Shurmi the word. And I offer my apologies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u47	Andry Volodymyrovich, we have three weeks left to forgive each other, so I forgive you for that. I have a call to the Cabinet of Ministers. Ukraine’s World Bank allocated $214 million to health reform. If I were to put it in a bracelet, it's 6 billion dollars. The government of Ukraine has paid 100 million fines for the unutilized health reform costs. And today you're asking me to find money and you're saying that there's no money for one thing or another. 100 million fines for early implementation of the health reform program. Questions. Stephen Ivanovich, who specifically bears responsibility for this crime? The Ministry of Economics, which is also relevant to use, or the Ministry of Health? And who, in particular, will be responsible for the inactivity of the staff?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u48	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u49	Mr. People's Deputy, Mr. Igor, I would like to say that the overall state of affairs for June has registered 425 active projects of international technical assistance with a total cost of $5.7 billion in implementation. Traditionally, we have the biggest donors, and these organizations that you call them, including that the United States -- 93 projects, the European Union -- 171 projects, Germany -- 33 projects, Canada -- 12, Switzerland -- 10 and a number of other countries. The Ministry of Health is directly responsible for technical assistance in the direction of health care and for the policy of use. Roman Ilik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u50	Thank you. And please, next. Ah, please add.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u51	Thank you. Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Igoru, I want to say that, in fact, everything about World Bank loans is central in the Ministry of Health, and everything about regional components, regional projects. It's not as difficult as you say from the point of view of opposition politics. Although we as a government understand that criticism by opposition politicians is, of course, useful in stimulating the work of government and especially ministries as central executive authorities. In particular, I want to say that there are, of course, personally responsible people, both in the Ministry and in particular, responsible for specific projects. And if you have specific questions about any of these projects, please contact us in the proper order. We are ready to provide all the information you have asked. With regard to the implementation of the central component and those projects that are being implemented in places, everything is going according to the calendar plan today, and we don't see any deviations in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Please, the next question is Saul's Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u53	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I am addressing you in connection with the critical situation that has taken place in Western Ukraine and in my district as a result of the torrential rains and the flooding of parts of the territory. I want to inform you that in the last week, huge damage, in many cases a critical situation, has occurred as a result of rains and torrential rains in the city of Kosov, in Zabolotov, in Verbovka, in Smudny, in Pistana, in the city and in Babin. I'm afraid I have to say there's no reaction to this moment. I ask you, Stepan Ivanovich, immediately, if possible, to hold an outgoing government or commission meeting on extraordinary matters. And also, I'm asking you to allocate funds from the reserve fund to eliminate these multimillion-dollar losses caused by the flooding in Western Ukraine. And I also want to point out what the result is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u54	Please, 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u55	I just want to draw attention, Stepan Ivanovich, to the fact that the floods have destroyed a number of bridges in the Highlands, which have made it impossible to pick up villages at all. I would like to request an immediate response from the government on the above-mentioned issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u56	I want to thank you for asking. It is, indeed, important. The question of the consequences of the complexity of weather conditions in the territories is also about the Ivano-Frankovsky you were talking about, and the Ternopils and the Lviv districts, and the Carpathians, and the Kirovograd region, and the Winnitsky, and the Hersons. Today the question answers three categories. Category one is a regional emergency service that determines the level and problem of emergency assistance, the identification of complex decisions that are decided on the basis of the conclusion of the DSNS act and are passed on to the relevant ministries. This is also the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Mr. Hennady Zubka, the ministries that deal directly with the rest camps of children and others. So we're studying this situation, and we're doing not just statistics, we're doing reverses. As of today, I want to tell you that all of the areas that I've told you about are defined in three areas of 224 farming, including a few dozen, and actually 41 residential buildings, are also defined as 20 farms and involved in the personal composition of the DSN several hundred men and techniques that work directly in each area. And the third. The submerging of emergency dwellings is immediately provided with immediate assistance. I'd like to thank the Ministry for, in fact, housing and utilities, and the DSNS for actively participating, including the level in the area. Today, more than 3,000 workers are involved in the difficult effects that have made the weather more difficult. They're still down for the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u57	Thank you. And please, next question, sir. [[B in m in s a l in]] One more minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u58	Today, there are still eight settlements that have been demolished. What I'm saying is that the DDSN has got the most technology involved in water pumping, people with a special composition. A reserve of villages has been created in the amount needed in each region. The Prime Minister's personal control is holding a question in the field of information about a ministry that is affecting the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u59	Thank you. And please, Borislav Bereza, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Mr. Stephen, on May 17th, in this session room on "the hour of questions to the government," I went to Mr. Groisman and asked him what was going on with the recall of the letter from Minfin, on which almost all the illegal gambling facilities on the streets of Ukraine were operating. When I turned to him, he said he didn't know anything about it and asked the finance minister of Ukraine. After that, a large number of days passed. Well, look, it's 7 today, but June. Mr. Troyan, who is, confirmed that it is on the basis of this letter that law enforcement agencies cannot close down. Money goes into the pockets of entrepreneurs who do not pay taxes, people break down, and families are destroyed in general. I don't see any action on the side of the cabinet. Let me ask you, in 20 days, what changed? Has anyone found out about this letter? Did you ever call him back? Is everyone waiting for Parliament to be dissolved and the government to be taken over in the first place, and that's when the movement begins? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u62	I would like to say that this is a very important question of the shadow, and not just the economy, but the social problems for our children and young children. The Prime Minister of Ukraine was commissioned, an operational meeting was held, involving the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and individual departments that control this aspect on the ground. Today, there are two plains. Area one is a change in the legislation that we have been introducing for three years, and it has not even been introduced into the session room to date. And the second aspect is the question of the law enforcement system to respond to places, so also the licensing, and the other block. As far as shadow business is concerned, it's hundreds of millions of dollars today working in a shadow business. I will inform the Prime Minister of the continuation of your question. And you get a specific answer by Wednesday, to the government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, the next question is the national MP, Rybchin. Ribchin. Turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u64	Good afternoon. Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland. Question to Hennady Grigorovich. "Paternality" has always supported all laws aimed at energy efficiency, at green for development, at ecology, even in opposition. Here's a question for you. Julia Volodymyrna did not once urge the government to submit the Budget Resolution. And we don't see how much money. I wonder how much money will be spent next year on energy efficiency? Because every year we're spending more money on energy efficiency, and the government is focusing more on subsidies. I'd like to know how much money you've spent on energy efficiency. That's the first question. And the second question is, I don't know, either to Mr. Kubi, or to Mr. Kistion, about Naftogaz. The situation that we're going to learn from the press and the people who work at Naftogaz is just called the fashion word -- "predefult," or "default." Because Naftogazu has no money to settle with a new creditor is a state. Naftogazu doesn't have any money to put gas in the vault. Naftogazu has debts. There's no increase in profit. And I think the question will be solved, either when the government goes, or when the Naftogazu leadership goes. Please tell me, when will the hostages of this shameful situation cease to be humans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say that with you, my team, the National Deputies' team, have been working on the laws and the replenishment of the state budget, and the Energy Efficiency Fund, and the "warm" loans. We continue to insist that energy efficiency reform is the most effective investment of the state in energy conservation and cost reduction. And that's why we've made the same proposal for the Budget Resolution that funding is 2 billion per year for energy efficiency. What's very important is that subsidies that are currently being spent on households, thanks to government decisions, are now monetized and allowing energy-efficient measures, returning to households, to co-finance energy efficiency measures. The first time a country has made it possible to spend annually from. If you remember, there were 79 billion subsidies, this year 55, allowing them to reinvest directly in energy efficiency. So that's the direction we're going to keep going. And I think that this Parliament and the next Parliament will continue to do so as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u66	Thank you. And please, Mr. Kistion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u67	Dear People's Deputies! A few words about NAC Naftogazu. I think you're right, today, more specifically, in recent years, the situation is quite difficult in NAC Naftogaz. I think that thanks primarily to the government's decision, since 2016 Naftogaz has become a profitable company. If you analyze the efficiency of using NAC Naftogazu's financial resources and the issue that is being raised today, about the financial deficit in gas purchase during the lowest price period, I think it's a question, first of all, for the management of the creative NAC Naftogazu, which is headed by a company for more than five years, the company is profitable. Where's the money? If you look at how much money is spent on maintenance, this cost has increased 10 times since 2016. If there were 800 million people, more than 3.5 billion dollars are spent on wage management alone. So the answer is pretty straightforward. I think the answer to that question should be primarily management: where to get the money, what procedures, and so on. I'll tell you more, during the last three years, NAC Naftogaz has not approved the financial plan, i.e. it works without a financial document. I think there are some questions here that need to be addressed both by the national MPs and by the law enforcement authorities and to answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u68	Thank you. Stepan Ivanovich, the MPs are very nervous. The MPs are nervous to be able to ask questions. We'll give you 10 minutes to sum it up later, after questions. Well, as long as you like. Please, the next question is the People's Deputy Gudzenko. And, government, bet in two minutes so there's more questions. Please, Gudzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u69	Guzenko Vitaly, 92 constituency. I have two simple but clear questions, and I want to hear the answer. This is a question of 92 constituencies and questions throughout the country. When will the closure of the post offices stop, especially in rural areas? Do these elderly ones not deserve a pension to be brought to their home? But you want to hear the answer and not translate it back into management or anything else, there's no big cost for that. And I've been in correspondence with the government for four years now, with all the ministries, with the Ministry of Ecology, for four whole years, I have six volumes of correspondence. There is such a city, Uzin, the Uzin united territorial community, there is just an ecological disaster. In the east there is a war, and we have 75 miles [75 km] from Kiev, people are actually killed. But I want to hear the answer, not just the correspondence. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u70	Please, National Deputy Sauka. Oh, I'm sorry, the answer. The answer is now, Your Honor. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u71	Mr. People's Deputy, regarding the closure of the post offices. The Crucifixion Management decides to optimize these offices because it has a mobile post office development programme that can cover one, there, several villages, and no pensioner will be left without the provision of a pension or without the delivery of any postal correspondence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u72	Thank you. Please, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u73	I also want to say that this question is very important. And the first question in the Chernigow region was Valérie Lazko. And we met about the post offices, including the exit meeting. Then, clearly, ask questions about non-closure of post offices and support, but conduct appropriate reorganizations of post offices that allow for maximum retention of non-lethal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Sauka, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u75	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, national deputies, members of the government, people of Ukraine! Mr. Vice Prime Minister of our State of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich! Please note this: assist in solving the issue of power plants for the construction of the sports complex, which will be located at the address of the city of Kiev, the military town of 161, the military section of A3628. I would like to point out that the leadership of the A3628 military has repeatedly asked Kiivoblanergo to assist in joining the power plant for construction, but they only received a negative refusal. I want to emphasize that in 2016, the military part of A3628, which was formed in the military town of 161, was formed in one of the ruins. Not only have military command and special forces been able to rebuild the infrastructure, but they are still carrying out and carrying out fighting tasks to protect our nation from the invaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, the government of Ukraine, like you, honourable national deputies, colleagues, have always supported, supported and supported Ukrainian military heroes, both those on the front and those on the back. Second, the question you asked is the question of how to fulfil the license conditions. This is essentially the competence of the NCREKP. Third. I'm asking for a request from the National MP, we're going to take this request for control, we're going to hand over the NCREKP and we're going to give a clear answer at this military connection point. It should be done immediately if you can hear us, NCREKP. We'll literally inform you Monday through the end of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u79	Next, please, Krivenko, National MP, questions. I heard you, and we'll summarize, we'll give you our word. Don't worry! Please turn on the microphone for the People’s Deputy Krivenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u80	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Stephen Ivanovich, I ask you to give the task to the controlling authorities and to turn to myself for, in my opinion, the purposeless use of 36 million bracelets, which according to the information of the HONEST movement, has been spent on advertising the government of Ukraine, which someone has called "the government of Groysman." And we see that the Prime Minister is going to the election to see if there is a question of the abuse and ill-intention of using the funds that are then actually going to the political advertisement of the current Prime Minister of Ukraine. That's a quote. And the question is simple. Yesterday, Parliament, unfortunately, did not vote on Law 10357 in order to restore solar power plants to small users. I have a request for you to initiate an extraordinary meeting of the Supreme Council. We're going to start gathering the signatures of the National Deputies. And I call on the Head of the Supreme Council to convene next week to be a plenary as well, so that we can consider the amendments to the Electoral Code as quickly as possible, and with this call, we have been able to adopt such important bills as 10357. Whether you support this initiative or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u82	Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich! Dear colleague, dear friend, I would like to tell you that the question of using the funds is what we consider to be a parliamentary request. The question of sessionality or non-session next week is the decision on the surface of the Supreme Council. But we've always supported, we've been very cooperative with the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u83	Thank you. Germany. Germany, your question is now to the government. Mr. Germanko! Your microphone is on. Tell Mr. Igor, the German microphone is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Well, first of all, I have to tell you that probably there wasn't cooperation between the Supreme Council's profile committee and the Fuel Energy Ministry for all 28 years of our state's independence. It must therefore be said that the Ministry supports the decision of the committee, but this decision is on the surface of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I fully agree with you that an emergency session would be handy. The adoption not only of amendments to the law under the individual EUSR, but also of miners, which I have already talked about at the beginning of today’s session.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u85	Thank you. Now, please, Germany. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u86	I'd like to ask again and probably for the last time. This is where the Cabinet of Ministers is meeting, and I want to hear about the criminal investigation of the brigade, or the OMG, Koboleva and members of the government. Today, it has been said that the Cabinet of Ministers owns Ukreft shares. and gas. Please tell me, on what grounds has the private organization already come into existence? What is done in front of people? If you're already a subject of Kobolev, say so, people will help you that Kobolev is in charge of the U.S. Department and the IMF, which have come out of control by Mr. Nasalik. And that's why I'd like to hear the answer as it progresses.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u87	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u88	Have they called for questioning, for questioning, or have they not, on this criminal case, primarily related to the millions of dollars stolen under the premium? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u89	First question. The operation of Naftogazu Ukraine takes place under the legislative framework and the Act on Shareholder Associations. And this is a confirmation of the registration of the Ministry of Justice. As to the question of the investigation, please ask the MP. And the government is not responsible for investigating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u90	And a final question. The gulk passes to the Squirrel. One minute. This is a final question from the national MPs. Please. The crooked one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u91	Good day, dear friends, a respected government. Stepan Ivanovich, I would like to address you as Vice Prime Minister. We had this night in the territory of the Boguslav district in Boguslav during what is said to be a natural disaster burned the roof in the church, near the market in the city of Boguslav. And a very large part of the territory in the villages was flooded and washed away by cities and so forth. A big request, if possible, is to take control of the matter and consider the matter of providing material assistance to the victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u92	We're going to take this issue for control as part of the consequences of the complexity of the weather conditions in Ukraine, which I've been talking about. We're going to include this question with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u93	And the closing word for three minutes is Stepan of Cuba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u94	Dear Andriy Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, first of all, I would like to thank you for the Law on the so-called Industrial Wagon, where yesterday you received 230 votes in your second reading. I want to say that the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to technical regulations and evaluation of European Union legislation is to avoid placing an additional and unnecessary regulatory burden and, above all, to implement this agreement, to open up access to international markets for Ukrainian products. I also want to thank the committee of Andrew Ivanchuk, Victor Halasyuk, for the work we have done together in the past year. The other one. I would also like to thank Mr. Andriy Volodymyrovich for Bill 8370 on the implementation of the objectives of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, where it is determined to ensure the maximum compatibility of the Armed Forces with the armed forces of NATO member states through the implementation of standards. Ukraine's collective security is the safety of every Ukrainian, every citizen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u95	Thank you. Yesterday, Parliament really made 12 decisions: 8 laws -- in general, 2 -- on the basis of 2 decrees. And this is the great success of our work together, our cooperation. So thank you for your work together. I wish the government success and work in this difficult time for the country, and until the meeting. Thank you. "The year of questions before the government" is over.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u96	Thank you, Andrey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u97	My colleagues, I would also like to inform you that today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is launching the X Session of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Fair of the Republic of Lithuania and the Seima and the Senate of the Republic of Poland. This is one of our most important international efforts with the closest neighbors and allies who supported us in the most difficult times. The Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland-Lithuania is that course, that course in our region that gives Ukraine a lot of space. In fact, Poland and Lithuania are most supportive of Ukraine's EU path and Ukraine's NATO path. Today and tomorrow, together with the parliamentary delegations from Lithuania and Poland, we will work together on security, economic cooperation, the development of democracy. And I invite all the people's deputies to participate in the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland-Lithuania. I wish everyone fruitful work for the success and prosperity of our peoples. And now, for the announcement of the questions, I would like to give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u98	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Andrew. Dear colleagues, let me inform you that 165 requests from Ukrainian national deputies have been received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Among them are several directed to the President of Ukraine. So I'm asking you to stay out of the session room right now. Because the questions that MPs are asking to refer to the President require, as you know, our vote. So I'm asking the President of Ukraine to ask Tetjana Crnovol to the President of Ukraine to cancel Presidential Decree No. 304/2019 on the appointment of Andrija Bogdan as Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine as a violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. Colleagues, we have a vote -- support for the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:18:51]] For-25 There's no potential. Next question. Irina Sisoyenko to the President of Ukraine for the announcement of 2020 – Year of State support for patients with rare (orphan) diseases. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this request to the President. [[11:19:25]] For-32
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u99	There's no potential. Colleagues, I'm moving on to the announcement of other questions that have come to the fore. So Tetjana Crnoval to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Cleanse of Power in Presidential Decree No. 304/2019 on the appointment of Andrija Bogdan as Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds to his son, Michael, of the village of Líščín in the Žitomir region, for the transplantation of his bone marrow in 2005. Viktor Razwadowski to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District Administration for the allocation of funds for the operational treatment of the aortic valve of Mikoli Mironcuku, a village of the city type of the Novoguywinsky Žitomir district of the Žitomir region. Savchenko's hopes for the Attorney General to inform society of a matter that has been of concern since the 14th year, most Ukrainians: who killed the Heroes of Heaven and when the culprits will be brought to criminal responsibility. Savchenko's hopes for the Prime Minister for the targeted genocide of the Ukrainian people by setting tariffs on municipal services that cannot be paid by the majority of the population of Ukraine, as well as by the economic policy of the Government of Ukraine over the past five years. Sergey Shahova to the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Kiev City Customs of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the establishment of import dates to the customs territory of Ukraine for commercial means of transport. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the BSB, the Attorney General's Office for the improper conduct of criminal investigations. Michael Bondar to the head of the Kamyanka-Buzka District Council of the Lviv Region, head of the Staroyarichov Rural Council for the resolution of the problem of groundwater submergment of the home of a disabled group II war in the village of Old Jarichov Kamyanka-Buzki district of Lviv Region. Michael Bondar to Kamyanko-Buzko City Head on the extension of the lease for the rehabilitation centre of children with disabilities in DNZNo5 in the town of Kamyanka-Buzka Lviv district. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Prime Minister of Ukraine for preventing the liquidation of the newly created Chernecchin village of the united territorial community of the district of Ohtyr district of Sumi district. Vladislav Buhareva to the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the need to allocate funds from the State Budget for 2019 for the capital repair of the road of the state importance of Lebedin Suma. Sergey Kiwalova to the Prime Minister on the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision of 17 July 18th 2018 No6-r/2018 on the restoration of guarantees, benefits and compensation for the Chernobylites. Andrija Nemirowski to the Attorney General, Head of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for a petition from the citizen of Olga Vedutenko and the construction investors at the address: Kyiv City, Raketna Street, 24. Olga Bogolitz to the Prime Minister on the verification of attractions in Ukraine to ensure the safety of their exploitation. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister for the involvement of officials and for the establishment of public associations that have allowed the purposeless use of partner countries' funds in donor assistance and monitoring Ukraine's commitment to the principles of international health cooperation. Igor Shurma to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation for the Indictment of Officials of the Ministry of Health in connection with the deaths of people due to the disease of measles during 2017 - 2019. Helen Stotnik to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for information on the construction of a pedestrian bridge between the Volodymyr Mountains and the Ark of the Friendship of the Nations. Ljubomir Zubada to the Head of the Court of Auditors for the provision of information on the extent of financial obligations that have been transferred to local budgets for the financing of public expenditure during the years 2016 - 2018. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, acting as minister of agrarian politics, is the food for the need for regulation at the legislative level on the safe conduct and use of pesticides in the agricultural sector. Igor Goose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing on the need to abolish the legislative rule on the payment of pennies to consumers for the non-timely payment of residential services. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget for the implementation of the pilot project in the New Division of the Lviv Region and the establishment of housing funds for the calculation of thermal energy for domestic consumers and the reconstruction/setting of individual heating systems in multiple apartment buildings. Constantine Jarinic, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the use of emergency measures aimed at providing timely and full pay to medical personnel in the second level of medical care in the town of Kropinicky. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister for the provision of medicines for the population of the rural areas of the Odessa region. Olega Lalashka to Minister of Defence, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the illegal assignment of Bakan's military rank as Lieutenant. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Education and Science for the establishment of a pedagogical prestigious allowance of at least 20 per cent of the official salary (wage wage) for all education students, including teachers of schools with minority languages. Sergey Ljowczina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reduction of the social protection of children with families. I'm sorry, the family with the kids. I'm sorry. Jury Miroshnichenko to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the request of Eugene Border to cancel the review and index the amount of pensions for individual categories of pensioners. Jury Miroshnickenka to the National Police of Ukraine regarding the citizen's complaint to Love Danilenko regarding her claim for funds and property threatened with violence by private performer Volodymyr Poplake. Ljubomir Zubak to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of the local government and its employees from unlawful attacks. Romana Macola to the responsibilities of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian Road Service in the Hmelnicke District, on the unsatisfying state of road coverage on the section of the road of state importance T-2309 Shepetovka - Zdravni - Berdičov from the settlement of the village of Novichi and the village of Poljana Hmelnitski district. Romana Macola to the head of the National Commission, which regulates the state in the fields of energy and utilities, the Shepetov City Head to settle the issue of disconnection from central heating networks in accordance with the requirements of current legislation. Jury Bublika to the temporary duty of Minister of Health of Ukraine, Head of the National Food Safety Service of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs for the failure to comply with the legislative requirements for the ban on tobacco smoking in the elderly areas of food establishments in Poltava, ignoring the authorities and law enforcement agencies of these violations, and warning of the health of citizens. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of culprits and overcoming the effects of mass pollution by chemical means on rural areas. Vladimir Litvina to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the payment of a monthly allowance for the prestige of teaching work to teachers and academic and pedagogical workers. Anna Romanov to the Minister of Internal Affairs for the protection of the victims of the unscrupulous actions of Tour Operator Idriska-Tour. Anna Romanov to the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economic Development and Trade for the Adoption of New License Requirements for Tourism Operators. Sergey Rudika to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the harmonization of the area of the Notarial District within the framework of the Ukrainian administrative and territorial system. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures taken by the Ministry of Health to ensure the needs of the regions by medical means and products in full range. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister for the development of a compensation mechanism for the costs of carrying out water- and heat-testing for the population. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister on the critical situation that took place in the Panutin Wagon Renovation Plant of the Losov City United Society of the Kharkiv Region. Julia Yooffe to the Head of the Supreme Council on the need to protect the constitutional rights of citizens, the urgent solution to the question of the appointment and the holding of the first elections in the unified territorial communities of the Lugansk region. Julia Yooffe to the Minister of Internal Affairs on the need to protect the interests of the territorial community of Rubižne Lugansk region. Andrija Lopushanski to the executive duties of the Head of the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, acting as head of the Lviv District State Administration for the repair of the road to the general use of local value in the village of Galovka in the Old Sambir district of Lviv. Michael Dovbenko and Andrija Lopushanski, head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities, head of the Antimonopoly Committee on the need to settle relations with a natural monopoly. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the state of implementation of the state-of-the-art programme for radiation and social protection of the population of the city of Yellow Water for 13-22 years. Mr. Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister on the inefficient use of budgetary resources by the Central Executive Authority. Vasil Guljava to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the redistribution of budgetary allocations for the calculation and consumption of electricity to the Basin Water Administration of the Rivers of the Black Sea and the Lower Danube. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister for the approval of a sub-legislative act - the procedure for granting the status of a participant in hostilities (OBD) to persons who participated in all forms of armed struggle for Ukraine's independence in the 20th century. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the allocation of capital roads and the reconstruction of street lighting in the Skuri district of Kyiv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the proper financing of the needs of the Tarostian Central District Hospital of the Kyiv Region. Alexander Kodoli to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the repair of the Sosnica-Sapovalivka road. Victoria Ptašnik to the head of Shevchenkov District in Kiev State Administration on the state of reconstruction of the sports complex "START" on Scholudenko Street, 26-28/4 in Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Victoria Ptašnik to the first Deputy Director of the Department (Department Director) of the transportation infrastructure of the Kyiv City Public Administration regarding the state of reconstruction of Akademic Tupoljev Street. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister, the head of the National Commission, who regulates the state energy and utility regulations on social tensions that arise among consumers of Poltavatplenergo when setting up the public-house hot water counters because of non-compliance with the requirements of the legislative act governing the relationship. Jaroslava Moscalenka to the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Department of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in the Kyiv Region for the failure to respond to the parliamentary appeal by officials of the State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine and the Department of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in the Kyiv Region and their irregular inaction. Sergei Vlasenka to the Director of the State Bureau of Investigation, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the possible complicity of Ukraine’s national deputy Vladimir Ariev in criminal activities. Sergija Vlasenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the violation of legislation by Uljana Suprun, who is carrying out her discharge from the Ukrainian Minister of Health. Ruslan Solvar to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the capital repair of road cover on Mikolayivska Street in the village of Mikolayevka of the Colonial Village Council of the Makarov region of Kyiv Region. Tetjana Ostrikov to the executive responsibility of the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for not allowing for a baseless definition of the cost of transportation in a manner not provided for by the Customs Code of Ukraine, namely the use of Schwake catalogues. Tetjana Ostrikov to the State Bureau of Investigation, U.K. Attorney General's Office for the Prosecution of Criminal Investigation, filed on appeal by the Gradola Group. Andrija Šinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Head of the Road Service in the Hmelnicki Region, Director of the State Motorways Service for the capital repair of roads in certain areas of the Hmelnicki Region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to ensure uninterrupted and free treatment and rehabilitation of patients with orthopaedic diseases. Irina Konstankevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding from the State Fund for Regional Development of Projects in Kamen-Kashire and Kivertskie District of Volin Region. Irina Konstankovic to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the award of the deceased military officer of the military A0998 of senior soldier Volos Andrija Aleksandrović. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the capital repair of the Brovarsky Prospect along the Bikina Microregion. Andrija Illenka to the director of the Kyivtosłachmist utility company, head of the Kyiv city administration for the capital repair of the pedestrian crossing at the Brovary Avenue near the Military Town, 161. Helen Sotnik to the head of the National Police of Ukraine, director of the State Bureau of Investigation for information on the criminal conduct of the murder of 5-year-old Kiril Tlyavov. Paul Rizanenka to the executive duties of the Head of the State Road Agency of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to repair the crash areas of the road by general use of the state value T-10-18 Borispiel-Bérezan-Yagotine. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations on the use of response measures for Kyivoblanergo's PRAT to address consumer rights violations. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Police, the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Bureau of Investigation, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Anti-Corruption Office, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Business Ombudsman's Council on the verification of possible interference by law enforcement authorities with the business activity. Jurya Bereza to Prime Minister of Ukraine for an improper response to the MP's request for immediate funding for the capital repair of the M 04 international road, in the area of the Dnipropetrov region. Oksana Jurinec to the Lviv City Head for the preservation of cultural heritage in Lviv. Irina Suslowy, until the temporary duty of the Ukrainian Minister of Health to take immediate action to protect the rights of Ukrainian citizens, who have been suspended from performing heart transplant operations in the Republic of India. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Ternopil State Administration for the repair of the bridge in the village of Žerbka Podvolocchi district of Ternopil. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, acting as Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine for the increase of the budget grant for the maintenance of young cattle. Alexander Kirsza to the Kharkiv city head for repairing the road along the Mayakovsky street in Kharkiv. Alexander Kirsza to Kharkiv City Head for the repair of the sidewalk near the residences on Tchaikovsky Street in Kharkiv Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the immediate restoration of passenger elevators in buildings Nos. 44/22 and No. 46 on Złotoustowski Street in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv, whose termination is a threat to the life and health of citizens living in the buildings marked. Jury Lewchenk to the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine for the submission of information to the Single Register of Judicial Investigations into the conduct of the Kiev City Head by Klick. Criminal offence envisaged in part two of article 364 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine concerning the illegal removal of land along the street of Polovatsky 25/27-29 in the Shevchenkov district of Kyiv. Sergio Leschchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the organization of a travel council to address the socially important issues of the inhabitants of the Darnicki district of Kiev. Sergey Lechchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the replacement of the cover over the subway crossing at the street of Natalia Zhvij and the avenue of truth in Kiev. Taras Batenka to the Director-General of the Public Shareholders' Association for the resolution of the deficit problem and the flow of personnel of the employees in the rural area, which was caused by the undue pay and the transfer of workers to work on a part-time basis. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, First Deputy Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Head of the Cerkas District Administration, First Deputy Head of the Cerkas District Council on the award of a grant to set up an education facility. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister, Head of the Court of Auditors, Head of the State Audit Service, Head of the State Financial Monitoring Service to monitor the use of budgetary subsidies. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for an immediate review of the draft Supreme Council Decision on the social status of children and urgent measures to improve the protection of children's rights in Ukraine. Jury Pavlenko to the Head of the President’s Office for the Protection of Children Affected by Military Action and Armed Conflict Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Affairs on the evaluation of the efficiency of the use of housing subsidies in 2019. Irina Souslowa to the Head of the President's Administration, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the use of urgent measures to protect the rights of convicted Ukrainian citizens who are in the penitentiary institutions of the Greek Republic. Mr. Timchuk to the Prime Minister about the increase in wages for museum workers. Yurya Drevijanka to the Ivano-Frankov District State Administration to provide information on the use of disaster management measures that took place during April-June 2019 in the territory of the Ivano-Frankiv region. Igor Alekseieva to the Kiev City Head on improperly retaining the area on Kosenko Street in the Podil district of Kyiv. Igor Aleksiev to the Director General of Kyivtodor Municipal Corporation for maintenance of road cover in the city of Kiev. Jury Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of possible violations committed during the investigation of criminal conduct. Ivan Melniczuk to the Prime Minister on the need to repair the road cover of the state-owned road T-06-10 "Ljubar-Hmilnik-Novo-Ušica" in the Vinnitsky region. John Melniczuk to the head of the Vinnitsky District State Administration, head of the Latin Regional Administration of the Vinnitsk Region in order to ensure the functioning of the Field and Obstetrics post in the village of Ivanopil in the Latin region of the Vinnitsk Region. Yuri Timoshenko to the Yagotin City Head, head of Kharkiv District State Administration for the dismantling of monuments that are symbolic of the Communist regime. Alexander Nechayeva to the head of the General Administration of the Dergeokadastre in Sumska District for information on land status and status of the issue of granting permission to develop projects to land administration in the Grandpissary region of the Suma Region. Paul Djublik to the Prime Minister for the entry into service of the lands of the People's OTH. Valery Pisarenko to the city’s Kiev head on building abuse and on prevention of risks and health. Edward Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Attorney General's Office on the need to verify the facts set out in Andriy Vodańsky's address, to provide appropriate legal assistance and to take appropriate measures to respond. Robert Gorvati is acting as Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture and Food for the implementation of Ukrainian Law No.2360-VIII and for the development of the production of wine. Dear colleagues, we have completed with you the announcements of those questions that have come at this time and have been registered in the Supreme Council's apparatus, and have reached the verdict. Also before the bureau came a statement registered with Mr. Lechchenk about his dissatisfaction with the answer that came to him. The answer to Kyivmislight. I give him three minutes. And I'll also inform you, colleagues, that there's been a statement from two factions for the break. I'm going to announce this break, and the faction statement will be after 12:30. Please, Mr. Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u100	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, honourable dignitaries! I regularly conduct parliamentary receptions in which people come with simple questions. And it doesn't seem that it's difficult, for example, to build an underground transition, to bring it into order at the intersection of the streets of Uzwiy and Truth in the district of Kiev. It's an elemental thing. Of course, as an MP involved in this process, we're starting to work with MPs and requests -- discounts are coming from city authorities. Now I have a second story, which is the same on the part of the MP, and as an MP, I've been directing appeals, asking questions. It is the lighting of the street of Konev in the region of Kiev. It's an area where traffic is constantly taking place because it's not being illuminated in a banal way. And so I got this information during the reception. I'm speaking as an MP, and we're working on this question -- and again, the city government receipts. I mean, what if the city authorities aren't capable of solving the basics? Last week I was talking about asphalting the road on Dragomanov Street in Kiev. Today I'm talking about lighting on the street of Konev. Before that, he spoke of an underground transition to Zhvij. Yeah, maybe we just need to change the city's authority if it can't solve simple things? If it can only build a glass bridge in just half a billion years between the two hills in Kiev, which is basically very much needed by the city in the same way, but not for half a billion dollars, not for the money of our taxes, which then pours into the fact that this town begins to collapse on the second day! It is simply possible that the next Parliament – whether I am in this Parliament or not – should others come, I urge them to do the same: the first decision is to announce the elections in Kiev. Because power, which has not been able to solve basic issues: lighting, underground crossing, asphalt cover, is it possible to talk about this power, that it will solve some more global issues, like the subway to the Vineyard, which we have been promised for decades, like the subway to the Trinity, which has already ceased to promise at all, like the city through Dnipro to build, or the tunnel under Dniprom to build. It's all simple, I'm sorry, hate, if we have to spend our time as an MP to fight basic insolence and inequities in a city where people who are assigned to positions who receive our money as taxes as a salary are able to solve such simple things. So, dignitaries, I don't know whether I'm going to continue to work in Parliament or not, but I'm going to fight the same way to have an elementary order in the city, so that we can use the infrastructure of a decent European capital, and not the Third World countries, so that we have high-quality water, so that we have basic lighting, so that we have transport to work so that we can finally get services to the city not by shutting out hot water for half a year. Of course, the question of Kiev is a political issue. And so to the next Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u101	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u102	Thank you. To the next Parliament, one of the first decisions is to adopt a new Electoral Act. This will, of course, be priority number one for the new Parliament. Remove the immunity from the MPs so that the oligarchs and their personal secretary do not pass here; eventually, the question of the Law on impeachment to keep the President under control; but also the recharge in Kiev. Because we cannot continue to live under such conditions when the European capital is transformed into.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Thank you. You'll be able to take the floor if you want, during the traditional hour of the performance. Dear colleagues, so I now announce a recess: both at the request of two factions, and the break we should have in accordance with the Rules. And we meet at 12 o'clock for 30 minutes. We'll start with a statement from the BPP faction and the People's Front, and then we'll join you. Those national MPs who want to join the show under the heading "Rizzne," you can do that. Thank you. And at 12:30, I ask all my colleagues to return to the sessional.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u104	Fellows, we continue our work. There's a statement from two factions for a break, a request for a replacement. I would like to welcome you to the floor of the People's Deputy Taras Kremen. Then we'll move on to the discussion at the Miscellaneous.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u105	Taras Kremen, People's Front. I've just returned from a meeting with the best pedagogical staff of the global vocational and technical pre-school and extra-school institutions, which today will be given a 15-hour award at the hands of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andria Parubia, for a significant contribution to the development of Ukrainian education. And they've asked different questions about both social protection and housing and pay, and it's clear that things that don't change too much. So, first of all, I want to thank our colleagues for giving so much attention to education reforms, helping those who represent this sector in development, in the main Ukrainian reforms. And third, most importantly, we are taking a systematic step towards updating the Ukrainian legislative framework. What I'm saying is that Parliament has already passed the Act on Professional Higher Education this week. And this is, of course, a huge breakthrough in the development of Ukrainian colleges and technology, which, in the context of Ukrainian education reforms, should lead to a new life. And I honestly believe that, along with the emergence of a chain that came in exchange for the NZI I-II level of accreditation, we can also take care of a decent payday. But what I'd like to stop at. My colleagues and I adopted, in our first reading, the Comprehensive Secondary Education Act, and as the head of the subcommittee, I now lead a working group to prepare this bill for second reading and to adopt it as a whole. And I truly believe that we will reach this cadence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call to support it. I want to stop at the problematic things that I see cross-cutting, at least in the system of interaction between education and local authorities. First of all, it's quite slow, even though we've had parliamentary hearings about the development of human capital, but very slowly local authorities respond to requests for local education. I find the salaries of preschool teachers and extra - school institutions to be very meagre and ridiculous. And even though there's a marginal fork for pedagogical prestige pay from 5 to 30 percent, this standard, you know, is only minimally implemented. Another problem. We don't have a range of regional orders for our universities. And it's a tragedy and a tragedy. And the third. We are not satisfied with the fact that our university graduates, unfortunately too many of them, are shrinking, and the number of new jobs in Ukraine is falling and falling. That's why I sincerely hope that Parliament will support this convening and that it will support the Law on complete general secondary education. We're going to look at the amount of funding for Ukrainian education, and we're going to go through it, and we're going to put the shoulders on all the education people who work for image.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u106	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u107	works for the image of education, who works for its authority, who works for the future of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u108	Thank you. And we're moving on to the discussion at the Miscellaneous. Please hold the recording. Remember, each button only pushes its own button. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u109	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would now like to spend these three minutes and the opportunity, however, to speak out of the rostrum in order to call on our President to take a new form of international action, negotiations and the position of Ukraine at all. We saw that Zelensky was visiting Brussels. I absolutely support this signal of European integration and Euro-Atlantic integration. Important issues were raised, including the meeting directly with both the head and the European Commission, as well as the head of NATO. But I would like to say that today it is still a key issue of peace and the protection of Ukrainian interests. How the President is going to bring peace to the country of Ukraine is still unclear, because the so-called mine format that is now being reanimated, and the map of Ukraine in mine format is hidden, in principle, as was the case with Petra Alexiyovich Prashenka. I urge Mr. Zelensky to change his tactics in this regard and to consult the community as much as possible about possible actions from possible negotiations. I would also like to argue that it is impossible to have direct negotiations with ORDLO representatives for one simple reason. From our international experience, in fact, all of Russia's allies have said in one voice that there is no war in Ukraine, there is no Russian aggressor, and there is a purely internal conflict. So direct negotiations with the ORDLO are just legitimizing that idea. We can't let that happen. And Greensky has to insist on re-loading the norm format, talking to Great Britain, talking to Trump, with the United States of America, talking to Poland about participating at the highest level in the norm format, and transferring all of these talks from a completely illegal to-day Minsk to an official norm format platform. We have the Budapest Memorandum, we have the newly elected President, we have an invitation from President Trump, which is unprecedented in terms of speed. This means that Zelensky has a unique chance to recharge the norm and not give up the interests of Ukraine, but to strengthen it in the outer arena. I very much hope that he will take this opportunity to enable Russia to take advantage of political turbulence now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u110	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u111	re-launching the parliament, and will not allow Ukraine's interests, primarily the sovereignty of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u112	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the people’s representative, Derevyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, dear chairman, dear Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanco, Will Party, 87th District. The disaster continues to prevail in Ukraine in Western Ukraine: in the region of Ivano-Frankiv, in the region of Lviv, in Zakarpatski. Yesterday, in particular, 39 additional housing units and more than 170 households were submerged in 15 locations in Kosovo, Colomia, Schietinski, Gordakowski, Tlumati region. Last Friday, I spoke from this high rostrum, turning to the government, to Groysman, about the fact that a month ago, early in May, the floods and floods destroyed a large number of bridges, roads, and created a huge problem for more than 5,000 households. This is true of the region of Transviran, the region of Bogorodcan. You know, two people died: one person, in the region of Ivano-Franco, the other person, in the area of Zakarpat. And in the Kalu district, the woman also died because the speedboat was unable to get there in time because of the destruction of the road and the destruction of the movement. So today we're talking about more than a month and there's no government response. The village’s biggest damage was the Battles, Gwizd, Mladków, Pniewren, Pasaic region. And the communities are addressing these population points to the government, to Groysman, to Zubk, to the Cuban minister in order to start doing something real. The villages of Solotvino, Monastirkani, Old Bogodians, Markova, Sajova, Zjuraki, Dzvinjac, Deep, Rosilna, Staruna, Babče, Hmelovka Bogoččanski district, Glibivka. In particular, I want to tell you that the operation of an emergency bridge is continuing, where less than one lane remained in the direction of the village of Pnów, the village of Battlek, in the village of Pnów. This means that people are risking their lives moving across an emergency bridge, and fast, including now, and those buses that drive people, and so far there's no response. The entire Ivano-Frankow County reserve fund is 5 million dollars. At the same time, the government says that this is a regional level element, although by all the normative documents and legislative documents, this element is already of the extent it has reached, it has all the signs of a state level. This means that the area needs more than 100 million dollars to start eliminating the effects of the disaster. By this time more than a month had passed, and the government was doing nothing. Once again, I appeal to Mr. Kubov, Mr. Zubko, to Prime Minister Groysman: to join immediately in carrying out my direct duties. The State Administration of the Ivano-Frankow region has provided all the necessary documents. Please withdraw from the reserve fund, the state reserve fund, and start saving people, and completely repair the bridges and restore the drive so that people can live and function normally. And that's the biggest one right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u114	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u115	Valeria Zarztko, the Radical Party of Oleg Lazka. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! On June 5, this year, the World Environment Day was celebrated. Regrettably, there was little emphasis on certain specific actions, more on what was said. But Ukraine today needs concrete action, for the environment is unfortunately deteriorating every day. We see pollution in the environment. We see a complete absence of state environmental policy. That is why the Radical Party faction has proposed changes to the eco-tax (draft 10146, 10147), which will allow for a radical reform of the eco-data and make it an effective mechanism, and with its help it will finally improve the environment in Ukraine. And we're also talking about the global trend that pollution is increasing everywhere. And if we look at the leading survey of European countries, the United States, we see the secondary use of pollutants somewhere in construction, in road construction. Unfortunately, there is no such practice in Ukraine at all. So what we're proposing is a comprehensive approach to solving these problems so it's not just about reforming the eco-tax, but I'm talking about tax incentives for businesses to invest money in eco-derivatives, and transparency of this eco-tax, and purposeful use, because unfortunately, today the eco-data is scattered in the state fund, the state budget and it's not going to work. In general, this money is not going to improve the environment. So the first is reform, the second is to stimulate the eco-manufacturing of enterprises; the third, very important is to support secondary waste use as secondary raw material. There are such practices. We offer to study, we offer to use, because that's the only way we can get some concrete action to be done in Ukraine at state level to improve people's lives, so that there's not a huge amount of disease, so that people can be sure of their children's future, so there's no cancer in this number of cardiovascular diseases, because the state has to take care of every citizen. I would like to remind you that the Constitution of Ukraine has written down, and our team says in general that we should do the first thing that is stated in the Constitution: "The highest value for the state is the health and life of Ukrainian citizens." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u116	Thank you. And I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Halasyuk. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u117	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the new president has received a huge advance of trust from society. For what? To change the failed policy of Dusty and his legacy, to change human resources policies, to change the quality of government. What do we see instead? We see illegal, contrary to the laws of Ukraine, a healthy sense of appointment to the positions of the people of Yanuković, Azarov, and the same Prashenko. Completely old footage, which is now assigned by President Zelensky, contrary to his promises. Moreover, he continues President Dustenk's policy. And this is true of the failed Minsk treaties, which stand by, this is also true of the failed economic policy that has made millions of Ukrainians forced immigrants. This is totally unacceptable. Oleg Lazko and the Radical Party team offer an alternative to this failed policy. The first is the restoration of industry instead of raw exports. You see what's going on: Ukraine sells raw materials around the world, comes out talented people who do not find jobs, instead takes foreign loans, buys foreign goods. This is the path to poverty, this is the way to addiction. What steps do we see from the new President of Greens to change this situation? None! During his first foreign visit to Brussels, did he raise the issue of reviewing the trade part of the deal with the European Union in order for Ukrainian farmers to sell billions of dollars more of their products than raw materials to the European Union? No, he didn't. The second question. It is strategically important for the country, and this is driven by the team of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, to replace those government debts and loans from IMF to sound investment resources, to private investors, because IMF loans cannot go into development, and private investment is to create new productions, create new jobs and raise salaries and pensions for Ukrainians. Is President Greensky doing anything in this direction? He doesn't. He never once raised the issue of reviewing a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, although the President of Ukraine's signature was under this document, and he had such opportunities and powers -- to review a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, to exclude from there a completely artificial formula for gas pricing, a formula for over-communal tariffs that people could no longer pay. The President may also be obliged to do so under the Constitution, since according to article 1 of the Constitution, Ukraine is not only a democratic sovereign country, it is a social state, and therefore the guarantor of the Constitution must be on the protection of the interests of Ukrainian citizens. A review of a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, as Oleg Lazko insists, to remove the barriers to development that have been placed there by artificially predetermined authorities. And what President Zelensky doesn't do is he's continuing President Dustenk's failed policy. So they just switch places, they simulate changes, and they actually continue the same old policy. Ukraine needs a thorough review and review of all international agreements to ensure that they are consistent with the national interests of Ukraine and the economic interests of Ukrainians. All agreements that do not create and destroy jobs in Ukraine should be reviewed or cancelled because the function of power, the function of the President as the guarantor of the Constitution, is to ensure that investments come to Ukraine, that we have jobs here, not abroad, and that people make money, not on emigration, but on production, working honestly in their own country, so that they have the opportunity that is the Constitution. This is the role of the President. He's not doing it right now, we don't see these actions. The fourth priority that the Radical Party team insists on is the economy of high wages and social standards instead of dragging population traps under the dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund. This is the basis of the economy. If you look at how much is paid for the cost of European products -- more than 30 percent. And in Ukraine, this rate is 10 percent! So the wages in Ukraine are the lowest in Europe, unfairly low. Gas prices rose to Europeans, prices for all goods rose to Europeans, drugs doubled, or three times as expensive as Europeans! And wages are the lowest. Oleg Láška's team insists on the opposite policy of high wages policies worthy of social standards. And this can be done by developing your own industry. That's why we've introduced the Industrial Reform Package and the Anti-crisis Economics Plan to Parliament, which will allow for the cost of loans, provide Ukrainian production with new orders and create hundreds of thousands and millions of new jobs in Ukraine. This is the pro-Ukrainian policy that both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine and the government are all without exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u118	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u119	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Dear friends, dear Ukrainians! Not long ago, the international community celebrated the International Day for the Fight for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. I will remind all of you that in May 1992, people with disabilities from 17 countries simultaneously held the first European day to combat discrimination against people with disabilities and their rights. The goal of the day of the struggle for the rights of persons with disabilities is to promote a better understanding of such problems related to disability and to mobilize rights, promote dignity, a high level of dignity and the quality of life of such persons. And one of the main factors is the employment of people with disabilities. This is one of the key priorities of development in Ukraine of the social state, labour market stimulation and rehabilitation, and labour rehabilitation of people with disabilities. It is worth noting that there are nearly 2,000,000 people with disabilities in Ukraine today, of whom nearly 60 percent are people of working age. Of these people, only 13-15 percent work. In reality, the number of people with disabilities in Ukraine is much higher. Regrettably, they are unable to make a profit, as millions of Ukrainians have done. But we realize that this is not the answer to the situation. Thus, today, without increasing the State’s responsibility, without additional incentives for business, as well as monitoring its failure to fulfil its obligations to provide employment for people with disabilities, it is impossible to do so. The team of the Radical Party, Oleg Láška, has registered bills that will allow for the expansion of mechanisms and motivations for businesses, institutions and organizations to create jobs for people with disabilities in Ukraine. Before registering these bills, round tables, committee hearings, and many other consultations were held with representatives of all Ukrainian public organizations representing the interests of people with disabilities. Also involved were business representatives and representatives of the public sector. That is, all possible participants in this process participated in the discussion and drafting of these bills. And that's a very important thing when the bill is being adopted just to solve the emergency problem, not just for the initiative, which will not change anything at all, or instead we'll be wasting time to rewrite these bills. Also in the Bills initiated by the Radical Party for Persons with Disabilities, we took into account the international experience that has already shown positive results in their countries. And we adapted it to Ukraine. It's very important. So, dear fellow members of the national parliament, please support people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u120	Please, 10 seconds. Everything? Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Golovka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u121	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Ternopolishte, 164 constituency. I was approached by my constituents from the Kremenac district, which is from the Kremenac District Hospital, about the fact that they had been owed a few months by the authorities, not paying a salary. That is, people with higher education, hardworking people today are unable to provide their families, their children, they are unable to pay for utilities, they have remained virtually arbitrary. Because both the local authorities, both at the district level and at Kiev level, simply ignore and fail to perform their functions. This is a failed medical reform, of course this incompetence of the Ministry of Health. And it's not just the Ministry of Health, it's what we're talking about in other areas. The same situation in a trailer in the Ternopil area, where all accounts are completely blocked, people have lost their wages, they don't get paid for months, they stop all the tenders, they stop all the jobs. It speaks of failed reform and work not only in the local highway but also in Ukraine as a whole. This is also Polack, Novak, who is loaded with corruption, who is incompetent, who is being abused here practically from Ukraine, because most of the time he is in Poland or abroad, he has collapsed all the work and service. And this is the total policy of the government of Groysman, in which you don't spit, in which you don't look, there's no jurisdiction, there's no responsibility, there's chaos, there's no disorder, there's corruption and there's no mess. So, of course, our policy was one -- this is the resignation of the immediate government of Groysman, who has collapsed his job, which is dragging Ukraine into debt slavery, which is increasing loans and borrowing for our state. The total debt of the Ukrainian State has grown to 2.2 trillion out of 1.6 during the rule of Groisman’s government. And the service of this debt has grown, 420 billion a year, and Ukraine only spends its services -- that's percent and so on. So it says that we're completely dependent, in cabal, on a loan that doesn't give us a chance of development in our country. Today, the population owed almost 80 billion dollars to utilities, and this is increasing. Today, the debt on salary is 2.5 billion dollars. Where does the government of Groysman look? That's why we voted, of course, in favour of resigning, because this government is the worst government in the history of Ukraine, and maybe Azarova has already flooded. So we realize that there are no prospects under this direction. They do not want to consider our free laws as required. Where do you get the money? Get them out of the offshore! Shake the oligarchs! Make them pay their taxes here, not export them abroad. So no one wants to put our anti-oligarchy package of laws to the vote. Today the Council is not ready to vote. What does he say? What would be the main goal is to get the economy out of the shadows. It's forced here to pay taxes. It's here to create jobs so that Ukrainians don't go to work. But this authority and the government of Groysman do not want to do this. So, of course, we demand that there be a total reload today. All these corrupts have to resign. They have to be held accountable. We realize that today the law enforcement system is unable to do so. That's why we're waiting for faster changes, total reintroduction of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u122	I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u123	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. Honorable colleagues, respected viewers, have now raised the issue of increasing the social status of education and science workers, health - care workers several times. So what we're talking about is that, in fact, everyone, starting with the preschool teachers, the teachers of public education, the staff of the higher education system, is doing a very important job today, not just family work, but government work. So we don't have to come up with any excuses right now to reverse the reform, as individual political parties say, "We're coming -- we're going to reverse education reform." We don't have to do this. Education must be brought to a modern level. But the ingredient and the value of the employee’s salary must be at the top of the list. So I encourage everyone to focus on this. Because it is not a secret that today, for example, during the reform of health - care facilities, the lowest - rate workers, such as the field guards, nurses, especially those working in rural areas, have actually remained with an extremely low wage. So we need to pay immediate attention to that. Next topic. We celebrated Child Rights Day. And violent incidents. In Zitomirsk, you know when parents did this to their child. The facts today can be summed up in the same way in every area. The child’s rights system, the system of work of those government or institutions, the system of local self - government bodies, the institutions that work with children working with crisis families, need to be urgently reviewed and strengthened in this regard. Because many children are left behind, and this is where such wild experiences occur. Finally, Interior Minister Habakkuk recently reported on the benefits of the system during the presidential campaign, revealing the facts of corruption, voter bribery, and so forth. We approve of this, but I want to emphasize that a parliamentary election campaign has now begun and we have these examples of electoral bribery in the constituencies. So please, law enforcement officials, the legislation has not ceased its activities and you will be able to activate the work here, please. Because today we have examples: 64 constituencies are visited by unknown people in houses, villages, and electoral passports.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u124	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u125	promise some material preferences for voting for specific candidates. Please activate this job so that everything goes legally.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u126	Thank you. I invite you to the speech of the People's Deputy of Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u127	Ivan Sporish, Winnitzkin, 15th district. Of course, after a month and a half, perhaps less than a month and a half, we go to the next election. And speaking from this rostrum, I'm going to say that we should actually give an assessment to this Supreme Council, which has actually worked for four and a half years. We have always used to criticizing and perhaps it is just. But together with that, if we look at the work of the Supreme Council and compare it with all the Supreme Councils that have worked so far, of course, this Supreme Council will have great benefits. And whoever says and no matter what we criticize, this Supreme Council has worked and worked. I wanted to say today from this rostrum that it's going on and on. The trial continues in The Hague over Russia. And I'd really like it today that we give that a lot of meaning to give that meaning to our television and that sort of thing, everything. Why, because I think justice should be, Russia and Putin should be punished. I understand perfectly that they do not execute a judgment of any kind — either their own or international. But at the same time, even though we have to see politically what Russia is today is an enemy, we have to pay attention to that, too. The main thing is not to tread on the same rakes or get negative. That's why I'm here today and, for example, I'm supporting Oleg Easy in that he's giving the right recommendations to the new government how they should work. That's right. Because it is not his approval. But I want to remind you that today is three. Yesterday there were three of our soldiers killed, two killed, one killed today, and so on. Two killed today. But tell me, how much longer will it take to put an end to this war? How many people have been wounded! And it is true that we should not negotiate with the ORDLO because Russia is here. And the new contact group, and again with the old Kuchma, says not to answer our troops. So how many more will be killed? I think we should also note and draw some conclusions from this. Of course, after a month of elections. As they say, we should not be the only Greek to sow our districts. I've been a major, and I've been working, and I've never come to this before, and it's going to be every voter in my district, where I work, that I've never given anyone a single bribe in my life, and that's the right thing to do, and that's how we should work in the future. I know that our parliaments will come to that in about five to ten years.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u128	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u129	God will give open election lists, and then we'll see that we have to focus on that in order to have justice in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u130	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Vuka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u131	Victor Wolf, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians! Last week, two opposite foreign policy perspectives for Ukraine were identified. We all want a peaceful life. Yet there are two ways to peace: defeat and victory. What road will President Zelenski take? The first steps have caused serious anxiety. This is also the absence of a mention of Russian aggression in the inaugural speech, and a social probe on a referendum on friendship with Russia, and a discussion with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany and France on how to revive the political corpse of the mine process. And finally, Zelensky's promise in Brussels to carry out Putin's commitment to his predecessor to the Minsk Accords, whose goal is to shove into Ukraine a cancer tumor of special status controlled by Moscow by Donbas, amnesty of militants and even legalize their leaders as deputies here in the Ukrainian Parliament. However, Zelensky is not simply continuing the weak policy of Dustenka, where Ukraine is a humiliated beggar, he is on the road to defeat, and Kuchma, restored by him, has already claimed in Minsk to ban our military from shooting back in response to what he is betraying our soldiers on the front. Zelensky himself proposes to release the ministers of defense and foreign affairs and the head of the Security Service without any new nominations for these defining state offices. Leaving these structures in a warlord country without leaders is chaos for the army, for security and for diplomacy. The Radical Party of Oleg Ljaska claims that President Zelenski is on the road, not to a just peace, but to surrender, defeat, and the pro-Russian rematch in Ukraine. The alternative to this path is, of course, to become strong and to win both political and diplomatic and military. So last week, he gave great news, and we were finally heard, and the United States can grant Ukraine the status of a major military and political ally for the period leading up to joining NATO. This will be of great importance to the end of Russian aggression against Ukraine. And how many times have the opponents told us it's not real? As early as 2017, on the initiative of Oleg Láška, the Supreme Council approved a historic appeal to the U.S. Congress on security assurances, with the proposal to give Ukraine the status of a major non-NATO ally and to enter into a bilateral defence agreement. This will be the practical implementation of the Budapest Memorandum of Understanding in exchange for our nuclear disarmament. Following Congress’s decision, status is granted by the outcome of bilateral negotiations. It is important that President Zelensky does not waste this historic opportunity. On the scales of Ukraine and every Ukrainian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u132	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Borislav Berezu.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u133	Every day, the media reports that something had been stolen in Kiev: a piece of land had been stolen, and money had been stolen. And every time we don't hear someone being punished. They're only getting laid off. I have a question. I read the news. or translate. I read the news. In December, information appeared that 25 million people had been stolen from the Vatutina Park for repairs to the Vatutina Park. The right - hand prosecutor’s office obtained access to materials and found that another 25 million had been stolen. It was found that no repairs had been made, no renovations had been carried out. Forty-five million dollars was stolen in an empty place. Then it turns out that the city, a nice, interesting city, cost Kiev almost four hundred million dollars. Well, who doesn't know, F-16 is cheaper. What does the state need more: F-16 or cities? I have great doubts that an F-16 would lose. Then let's keep looking. As early as the 16th year, a bicycle was built from Troastina to Krestatik. So it happened that this bike has a purely nominal value. Sometimes it's stuck in the MAFI, sometimes it's gone, but the money's been wasted. That's when I went to the Kiev City Administration for a request, trying to get the cost of that bike. For 3 years, we've been rewriting with KMDA and they can't either find or give me this information. The area of Ankara is in the Trinity. Yesterday, news came back that 200 thousand dollars had been stolen in greenery. They steal everything they can -- millions, thousands, billions. In December 2018, more than 400 million dollars were allocated for the greening of the Trinity. In December of the month of greenery, for the grass in December of the month of Troyschen - 22,000 rubles - 1 square metre of greenery Troastina cost the city. I'm sorry, can anyone understand what this could be? We realize that's what we stole, too. I understand there was a criminal power back then. Now the power has changed. So I want to ask the Attorney General of Ukraine the question -- this is an official parliamentary address -- I want you to record this, investigate all the cases that have to do with the greening of Kiev, where millions and billions of dollars of Chinese money are being stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u134	Thank you. I'm asking you to make the speech as a parliamentary address. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Kosheliev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u135	Alona Košeljeva, Oleg Láška Radical Party. The distinguished presiding, respected Ukrainian fellow national MPs, continue to receive disturbing signals from the front line. Courageous compatriots die to protect our peace. It hurts because they're the best sons and daughters of the nation. I was approached by internally displaced persons who defended independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of Ukraine and were directly involved in an anti-terrorist operation. The heroes and their families are asking them to help solve the very important social issue of housing. During this time, about 2,000 families of internally displaced ATOs need housing to be accounted for throughout Ukraine. The Government approved the Ordinance on the granting of appropriate subsidies from the State budget. But according to the available information, additional funding is needed for this decision to be implemented at an additional level of one and a half billion dollars. I note that internally displaced ATO participants from the Lugansk and Donetsk regions and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea are genuine patriots, who were among the first to defend the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine and, as a result, were forced to leave their homes and relatives. What is shameful is the situation in which ATO members and members of their families, in order to secure their legal rights on the part of the State, are forced to take part in a nationwide protest under the construction of the government. I called on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take all possible measures, including initiating changes to the 2019 State Budget for the independent provision of ATO residents. I demand that the Ministry of Veterans' Affairs, together with MINCPOLITICS, MINFIN, and the Ministry of Economic Development, immediately consider my parliamentary appeal, and this issue has been resolved as soon as possible. It is unacceptable that the costs of the Ministry of Profiles for the stated purposes should be used ineffectively, and that the budgets of local self-government authorities should be borne by the accounts when our citizens cannot find their own home. My colleagues at the Radical Party, led by leader Oleg Lášk, will always fight to ensure that our nation works and cares for those for whom it is a sacred responsibility to protect Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, to ensure its economic and information security. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u136	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u137	Andrew Illenka, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Honorable Ukrainians and respected Chinese! I'd like to bring up today from this rostrum the question that I've repeatedly addressed MPs and questions, I've asked different officials, but not only is this problem not being solved, it's getting stronger, it's getting deeper. This is the situation around the Lisova Metro Station in Kiev, which is the most loaded station in the Kiev Metro by the number of passengers. And every day tens of thousands of Chinese and our city's guests pass through this subway station. And whoever lives on the Forest Mass, on the Trinity, or just where it is on this station, he knows what's going on there. Unfortunately, the situation is simply a complete mess. And it's been going on for years. And it's completely gotten people. And unfortunately, the appropriate services, the appropriate city departments, they don't respond. So I'd like these officials to walk over there at this subway station, where there's a passage past this Shanhai station, which is where it's the narrowest, the narrowest, the narrowest, the narrowest, this passage. In the morning, people who go to the subway and go to work and to school form a huge traffic jam just out of people because it's impossible to get through. And I'm already not saying that there are completely broken sidewalks and just holes under my feet. And at the same time, there's a construction going on right next to the subway. The fence is already in place, and construction work is already under way. No public discussions were held, no one asked the Chinese, residents of the Forest Massive, what they saw as they wished. Yes, of course, the Shanhai that is there right now, well, I'm using that word in a negative sense, in no way want to offend the city of Shanghai, but you understand what I'm talking about. It certainly needs to be changed, but you have to have people do the work and the discussions, because there's Kyoto Park, and there's a threat that trees can be cut down. And that's all you have to do with the community, not just put it in front of the fact. And you have to finally put order there, because there's just no way that people can go on with it. It's gone beyond anything, it's been going on for years, and now it's building it, it's increasing social tension there. And people just don't understand how the subway station will continue to function, plus it's attached to other modes of public transportation: there's the turn of the trolleybuses, there's bus stops. How all of this is going to work is not clear. So I continue to encourage the city of power to start working and to solve these issues, to make people's lives more comfortable so that they can use transport in a calm and normal way, because today it's virtually impossible to create simply unbearable conditions. So we're going to keep working on solving these problems, and we're going to call on officials and the city authorities to start solving these problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u138	Thank you. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, and you've drawn attention to how we are all together: and you, the inhabitants of your cities, the villages, and we, the officials, the deputies, have become less sensitive to human misery? More than 100,000 cases of measles — an unprecedented case in the world’s health system — have died nearly half a hundred years ago. Well, it's dead, so it's dead. More recently, babies born in the Plain region have died. More recently, by the way, they wanted to inoculate the child, a perfectly healthy, two - month - old, and also died. Botulism, which has been eradicated worldwide, is more than a hundred cases, dozens of dead. Well, they died and they died. How many deaths have we begun to surround in everyday life? The day before May, I wanted to raise the problem of death here from this rostrum, and what it has become today is an undeniable attribute not only in the east, but also in civilian life, I was excluded from the microphone. I want to continue today: Why has death become an undeniable feature of our civilian life today? Why did we become so loyal and tolerant of death? You see, just recently, two police officers in a state of alcohol abuse, playing with guns, practically took away the boy’s life. How did this turn out? A two-way reaction to the performances, and that's it! Do you remember Gandzück? Do you remember the officers who were shot in Dniper? And you remember many more deaths, both from law enforcement and from civilian life, and to what does this lead? Let's go. Let's go. In that room there are cynics that make T-shirts overnight, come out here with portraits of people who have died, and begin to appeal to power. Why did this happen? And because over the last five years, we've had constant reports: three people have died on the front, two people have died on the front, and civilians have been killed by gunfire. And we're used to dying like that. I'm talking to the people who are in power today, three-quarters of the voters have entrusted them with what you have to do to stop the war, even if it leads to your early retirement. The war must be stopped in Ukraine; it cannot be an undeniable symbol of life in our tap. I'm talking to all of us: let's stop the war! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u140	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u141	Two military personnel, six injured, and several injured, were killed again in Donbassa during the past period. What is the reaction of the Presidential Office and Zelensky? He claims that Russia has lost control of the fighters and that, he said, all these shootings are by themselves fighters. Yes, it is the mantra that the Kremlin has been talking about all the time, that the Russian forces on Donbas are not, that it is a civil war, that these indignant miners somewhere in the mines have found the Towns, the Zents, the armoured transporters and the fifth year are fighting, shooting Ukrainian military personnel. I have a question for Zelensky: What do you expect from him? If he thinks Russia doesn't control the fighters, even though there's hardly one person in the world who can believe it, he'll probably have his offer tomorrow -- direct negotiations with the fighters, without the Kremlin. Because the Kremlin is a peacemaker and it has no bearing on the occupation of Donbas, nor does it have on the military activities that are taking place on Donbassa. And what is Kuchma's initiative in Minsk worth negotiating that our military should not shoot when they are shot, that our military should not defend themselves? I want to remind you that it is Kuchma who has given up Ukraine’s nuclear potential by signing an empty Budapest memorandum, which today the leaders of the world are ashamed to acknowledge their commitments to the Budapest Memorandum. Today, in fact, the refusal to defend ourselves against the military. The refusal to have a strong army in Ukraine. Why is this not the same weapon in exchange for blank papers and Minsk arrangements? Now my colleague from the Kum Putina Party is going out to this rostrum and he's saying, "We need peace." Thus, there is no man in Ukraine who does not want peace. But what kind of peace do you offer? You're telling me that you're going to the election to create a large faction in the new parliament and implement the Minsk Accords. The promoskow forces have openly, successively, stood up for this plan of surrender of Ukraine, written in Moscow, in the Kremlin. In this regard, the special status of Moscow-controlled Donbas, an amnesty of militants, the legalization of their leaders as members of the Supreme Council. You offer such peace: the Godfather of Putin in this Parliament and the fifth column of Moscow? A similar plan is proposed by Zelenski. Both Medvedchuk and Zelenski insist on the implementation of the anti - Ukrainian Minsk treaties. That's why I'm talking to the Ukrainians again. My claim of a real threat to the Moscow rematch is not fiction or exaggeration. Revenge is already knocking at the Ukrainian door. That's why we came out of the coalition in 2015 when Poroshenko tried to implement these Minsk treaties to bring about changes to the Constitution contrary to the will of the Ukrainian people and the Parliament. That is why our Parliament has taken the initiative to appeal to the United States Congress to grant Ukraine the status of a special ally outside NATO and to sign a direct military agreement between Ukraine and the United States. There is no man in Ukraine who does not want peace. But what they're offering us today is not peace, it's surrender. The alternative offered by our team is to implement the Budapest Memorandum, it's a direct military agreement and the status of a major ally of the United States, it's economic recovery, it's a strong army, it's a strong diplomacy, it's a strong defence. When you're strong, they respect you. When you are strong, you will restore peace and return territory. When you're weak, you're humiliated, and you lose, you're capitalizing. Because the initiatives Zelensky is taking today are a referendum on friendship with Russia. We don't mind being friends with Russia. Let them withdraw their forces from Donbas, out of Crimea, repent of the killings of thousands of Ukrainians, and then we will be friends when they liberate our land. And today, the referendums on friendship with Russia on Putin terms are not a friendship with Russia, but a defeat and surrender of Ukraine. Or Greensky's referendum to join NATO. The Constitution of Ukraine states: a course for NATO membership. And Zelensky is not supposed to review the Constitution or trample on it, but rather to execute it as President. He swore to the Ukrainian people to obey the Constitution, to begin with, to read it. And in this Constitution is a NATO course, without advice from the Kremlin. So instead, we're proposing another referendum that the Ukrainian people need -- this is a referendum on the fate of Ukrainian land. Dusty wanted to sell the land, we didn't give it to him. Greens wants to do the same: in the new parliament, cancel the Language Act, make changes to the Constitution, and legalize the Kremlin's plan and split the country, and sell the land. The land belongs to the Ukrainian people, and no one has the right to trade land, soul and Ukraine without the knowledge of the Ukrainian people. That's why we won't give it to Zelenski, nobody.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Kiskar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! In fact, I'm delighted with this ultra patriotic rhetoric, and the right things that are said in this room, about some of the other thesis in relation to the enemy that are unacceptable at today's stage of development of Ukrainian history. Three brief references. The first is the Ukrainian Security Service, which would have to investigate the inaction of the Attorney General's Office to recover the stolen funds of Ukreximbank. A few of these cases, I'm not going to specify, I think the security guys will be able to find, find out all the criminal cases that have been discovered after the funds were stolen at the Ukreximbank, and that's more than 4 billion dollars just for things that I know, where black registrars have been disposing of their assets and actually made it impossible to return the funds to the Ukreximbank. Four billion are the apartments Mrs. Zarztko mentioned for the VPO, the participants in the fighting. Here's this tool, investigate these criminal cases, return 4 billion to the state budget, and we'll find an opportunity to buy apartments for displaced persons, war criminals, and other military personnel who need to improve their living conditions. Second of all, about the election, more about the parliament. We talk a lot about equalizing the rights of people, including internally displaced persons, with regard to electoral law. Active electoral rights, of course, remain, and with passive ones more difficult, because people who have moved from Crimea are deprived of the ability to vote for their majority candidate in particular. My proposal is to make appropriate changes to the current electoral legislation and allow those people wherever they live to vote for their majority candidates, even if they are temporary residents in Kiev, Winnitz or Lviv. I think it's going to be fair with those people, we have over 2 million people, most of them have already lost the status of internally displaced persons, but they either haven't changed the place, or they're going to want to return their place of registration in order to vote for the daughter majorist. Last one, third one. I repeat, this appeal has already been made to Mr. Klick for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of Waldorf pedagogics. As an active participant in the Waldorf School Initiatives in Ukraine, I insist that by the 100th anniversary of Waldorf pedagogy, we can create an all-U.S. center of Waldorf pedagogics, because it brings together more than 50,000 people, and it will only grow. In Germany more than 25 percent of schools have such schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u144	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u145	Thank you, Madam Chairman. And that's going to be a growing need. We have such a university building on Paul Titina’s prospectus, 17 of Greenchenka University, which is not being used at the moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u146	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the national deputy of Yemen. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u147	Leonid Jemetz, city of Kiev I'm going to split my speech into two parts. The first part is going to be our, Kyiv, cave, although it's probably a Kiev problem, or maybe a state-wide problem. It is connected to Children’s Hospital No. 7, which is located at Higher Education. A unique hospital with unique equipment, especially with unique specialists who have knowledge of performing operations of the most complex species. So, in some probably not the wisest, it's at best, but worse -- a corrupt head -- it's the idea of getting rid of this children's clinic. Now we were able to reverse the decision that was being considered by the Kiev City Council Commission, but, as far as I know, the information coming from different sources did not leave this idea. So consider my speech a question to the Kyiv city authorities. I want to, I don't want to, we want to get a paper with the Kyiv community. As Professor Prezewski said, the final paper will be clearly written with the city. With clinic number 7, child care, nothing will happen if it stays in the same warehouse and the only thing that can happen around the children's hospital is to improve its state of existence, equipment, pay raises and thus improves its effectiveness for the benefit of the sneezes. Thank you. The next question is, it's a state-wide one that determines the future of our nation. This is, you see, the honourable voters, the open Electoral Codex, which provides a system of open electoral lists. In fact, let me briefly explain why Ukrainians need open electoral lists at all. Because today our Parliament is formed according to the worst electoral system in the world: half of it is formed after the majority, where, literally by some exception, it is mainly Greek, bribe, and the other half is formed behind completely closed lists. It's when a candidate picks up a pile like that, a suitcase of money, goes to the party manager and just buys himself a spot on the list. Yeah, there's exclusion again and again, but the general rule is that. And then it's clear that this pseudo-deputy, he's neither a benefactor nor a mercenary, he wants to return, preferably with profit, the money spent on buying a mandate. How can he do this in the Ukrainian Parliament? By selling their votes for laws, oligarchs need to trade positions in the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, of course, the minister who bought his job is not a benefactor, and unfortunately not a mercenary. He also begins to earn money by selling positions of directors of state enterprises and institutions, trading positions on tender committees, in competitive commissions. Thus, because of the worst, most underprivileged electoral law that exists on our planet, corruption falls into the Ukrainian Parliament, from there to the Ukrainian government, and from there it spreads to the entire sphere of activity of our country. How do you stop it? These are the open election lists, the Electoral Codex. Prohibiting the opportunity to go to parliament because of corruption. So open electoral lists are the cancellation of the majority as a class. No more cheerleaders, no more Greeks. The other one. This is a situation where not a party leader, but you, the electorate, determine who should be the leader and on the top of the list of political forces. Well, in a banal way, you get a newsletter where there are two graphs. The first is a political party that you like. The second count is a candidate of this political power. And you move this candidate up on the list, trusting him to represent his interests in a single legislative body. The result is a parliament formed by the support and real trust of the citizen and the electorate, not the puppets of the oligarchs who follow the instructions given to them by these oligarchs. It's actually the result and the idea of open electoral lists -- to create a new quality of parliament, to create a parliament that has human confidence. And the other part of this is that this Parliament is going to be directly linked to the choice of Ukrainian citizens. Why is there such a low level of trust in Parliament today? Because people know that they didn't choose this Parliament. They stole the results. Stealing through the purchase of mandates. Thus, people rightly feel that they have no relation to MPs who are unable to enact laws that the Ukrainian people need. Why do we keep laws here for the benefit of the Ukrainian community? It would seem, well, MPs are adopting laws that people need. That's why they're loved, supported. For this they have confidence and the opportunity to be reelected. But no, these deputies work for oligarchs mostly. To change the quality of Parliament, we need open electoral lists to give our country a future. What is happening in Parliament today? It happened, well, a miracle that's actually a big and tiny job: over a year and a half, we passed it on to Parliament for a final decision. We had a discussion yesterday. Soon, in two or three weeks, we'll get the final result. Is everyone in this House for open electoral lists? No, it's not. Those who have apparently come through corruption and see no other way to change again without corruption are firmly opposed to changing electoral legislation. So today this discussion will be filled.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u148	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u149	In fact, we're going to go through this discussion very quickly. Me and Alexander Czernenko, who will be reporters, will briefly, clearly shorten the time of discussion, I think, three times. I'll tell you in two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u150	I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u151	Dear Ukrainians, I was going to say about the family of Smiliansk, Kamyanskina, Cherkaščina as a whole, and particularly the Cherkas region, but I had to respond to the lie that my colleague, the previous speaker, had just proclaimed from this parliamentary rostrum, did not call his name so that he did not have the right to a replica. What is this lie? The lie is that today’s election system has brought here oligarchs. Here, the oligarchs they wanted were established throughout all the electoral systems that were in Ukraine. There were five of them. 29 years of independence — five times the system has changed. And every new change in the system was based on the need to bring the neoligarchs here. I never bought my voters for Greek, and I never paid the money to vote for me. And I know a lot, not a unit, like you're about to, in between, show a lot of people who've never done that. Why do you have a moral right? Because you're the author of the bill that went through the first reading, and four and a half thousand rights we're going to be looking at here right now? Well, have, if you'll excuse me, face to face with facts. You have facts -- talk about them, but the system can't be completely wrong. This system, in its modified form, is a major but party major, operating in 4 countries from 7G: the United States, Britain, Germany, France. Is this some underdeveloped country? These are countries where the standard of living at the level of the country that is the last in Europe? It's not a human movement, it's not a choice. Logically, Oleg Lazko and his Radical Party were chosen behind closed lists. What? And they're sitting in the hall on Friday. Where are the people in the hall? There's no one here, and there's an RPL. That means what? That the system does not move people, but the personal qualities of the leader, the members of the team. If I'm here in the hall, what does that mean? Because that's a big question for me. Yes, I wanted to talk about Kamyanka, Smila, the Cherka region. And I have something to say, and I will say it to people. But do not twist the facts. I know 85 locations within my constituency, like the fingers on my hands, only lacks. I've been in each of them five times, and in some ten times. Every school, every garden, every FAP. I'm a city dweller from Kiev. Because I understand that this is the only way to convince the electorate to vote for you, to know and solve their problems. You don't know. And that's why you want to change the system and do it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u152	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u153	Don't let the next Chosen One do anything again. Because he thinks I'm fucked up, they're changing the system before the election. And so it will be until a person begins to carry out his duties with dignity and assumes his or her responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u154	Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u155	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians. Yesterday, or this week, there were two visits. One is a representative of the President of the Minsk negotiating group who somehow allowed himself to say that the Ukrainians would not be shot back. The National Movement of Ukraine is the only national party that has not publicly supported Zelensky before the second round of elections. She didn't say he was a bad candidate. And it's so clear that they both didn't fit. But we have clearly identified who we think is the greater evil. And one of the reasons was that he was absolutely clear, that is, he was talking about that we should stop shooting. So, Mr. Volodymyr, the Ukrainian army doesn't shoot, it shoots. And we definitely don't take your representative's words in Minsk, his proposals, his ideas. And I hope that's not your position and that he didn't have that kind of guidance from you. The second is actually the President's visit to Brussels. And here are the things he said there: about a clear course to the EU, to NATO, about the Russian Empire getting its end when Ukraine succeeds -- we certainly support. If that position were ahead of the second round of voting, not about some referendum that would still be when the time came, but now it's a tool in the hands of our enemy, which will only dissipate Ukrainians if we hold referendums on sensitive issues right now. That's why we support this thing. But what do I think the President in Brussels, and his representative in Minsk, and any diplomat, should have said five years ago? They had every Russian diplomat to ask, "Why are you against the peacekeepers on Donbas?" We have to ask every Ukrainian who might be stoned by the fifth column, who's listening to this TV commercial, which can be achieved in two weeks' time. For peace's sake! It is very simple: Peacekeepers throughout the occupied territory are occupied. And so, dear Ukrainians, every liar who tells you what he knows about how to "make peace," say, "We ourselves know how peace will be established: peacemakers!" But Putin doesn't want these peacekeepers. And every diplomat, every journalist in the world, has to keep seeing Lavrov when he sees other Russian diplomats, Russian propagandists, asking, "Why Russia versus peacekeepers in this area? There's killing, there's curfew, there's huge crimes against humanity." And so we need our information policy to finally get this international content to go to every soul, American, English, and say, "You betrayed us during the Budapest Memorandum." A hundred years ago, the Antente betrayed us too: when the Germans went out, the Antente promised to come in, but only entered Odessa, and we were handed over to the Red Plague, communism. Don't sell us now, don't sell value! "North Stream 2" and other mercantile values are.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u156	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u157	They're not that important. So I urge the President and his representatives to constantly raise the question of peacekeepers. And this is the real way to make peace to be deposed in one way or another in our territory. And please take care of reinforcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u158	I invite you to speak to the people’s representative of Solovia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u159	Yuri Solovay, 89 constituency, Gutzulščina, and Pocust. Dear national deputies, dear Ukrainian society, on Friday’s turn from this rostrum, I would like to draw attention to the issues that concern my constituents, to raise these questions and to address those authorities that should address them. You know, I'd love to, I'm sure the time will come when we'll talk not only about problems, but we'll also talk from this rostrum about a lot of positive things, and our successes, our state, the people who live in our state. But unfortunately, today I am again forced to raise the questions that concern them in the first place after talking to my constituents. Every year, I have to take this stand in line to raise the issue of debt and, above all, debt in the budgetary area in the Upper and Kosovo regions. And again, unfortunately, this debt applies to health workers, especially in the Kosovo area, only 50 percent of the advance is paid for that minute, even less in the Upper Province, about 30 percent of the advance in May. Well, people are good, well, how many times do we have to ask these questions? How many times does it take to contact the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, to solve these problems? Well, why would a member of the Supreme Council have to go up to the highest level in the first place so that an official at the Ministry or on the spot would raise his seat and decide that question? But unfortunately, I have to say that today, in the early days of June, we have not yet been counted for the monthly payroll fund in front of the medics of the Kosovo and the Supreme District. So, as a national MP in the middle of this week, I met with the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Kovtonjak, and I have prepared an appropriate parliamentary address, and I ask that I also present my presentation as an appropriate parliamentary address to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance to bring the budget assignments up to date to date so that we can be counted on by medical personnel on time. Moreover, I am addressing the Ministry of Finance and I am also addressing the State Administration and the Ministry of Health. Well, let's, in the end, stop these experiments on health workers. Well, at the end of the day, let's forget about this disgraceful phenomenon of debt owed to doctors who go to work at the right time, but unfortunately, the state doesn't find a way to pay them back the money they earned on time. Please form mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u160	Thank you. I'd like you to make the speech of a national deputy as a parliamentary address. And I invite you to the speech of the national deputy Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u161	This week, most of the people’s deputies and Parliament Speakers, Andri Parubai, refused to summon the interior minister Arsen Awakov after the tragedy that had taken place. And this is the greatest curse and the greatest fault of these national MPs. We are in a position to enact good laws here: the Prevention of Corruption Act, the Law on Temporary Investigators and Special Commissions of Parliament, the Anti-Corruption Court Act, the Law on Electronic Declaration. There were brilliant decisions here, only the trouble is that most national MPs and ministers, and the Attorney General doesn't enforce those laws themselves. In any democracy, a minister who allowed such a tragedy would immediately resign without waiting for his party to ask him. If he hadn't, they'd have kicked him out first, because they understand, and what can you say to people afterwards? Habakkuk did not resign, nor did the one party expel the vast majority of the people's deputies in Parliament, despite our proposals, pretend that they were not involved. And that's the main reason that so few people trust the Council, which seems to be adopting good laws that seem to have done a lot from decommunization to anti-corruption. I'm talking to all the people. Be careful not to be deceived again. Take a close look at who keeps his support or inactivity in positions such as Habakkuk, such as Lucenko, all of these people, from whom the country is home, who are not protecting the law, who are the first to trample upon it. It's very important that when you elect a new parliament, you make all these conclusions, you don't let all these people stay in your positions, and you don't have to fool yourself again -- bring the same. Look, make your conclusions. This is in the interests of, including, our security with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u162	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Lechchenka. And there are two deputies who haven't been able to participate in the recording, but they want to speak. If they don't deny the colleagues in the hall, I'll give the floor to two more of our colleagues, the colleague of Logwinski and Rybaku. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u163	Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable members of Parliament and our guests present on the balcony, Ukraine is entering the final stage of the electoral campaign. And the final stage of the election campaign is when you really need to calm down, analyze where you did the wrong thing, where you did it against the interests of Ukraine. But at the same time, the log continues until the last day, until the last minute in power. I was in a cabinet meeting this Wednesday. And this government has approved -- we need to give you a little bit more to earn Rinato Leonidovich Ahmet from our money with you. The government has made special commitments to state-owned enterprises: our nuclear power plants, our hydropower plants, ours, because this is 100 percent government property, and it has zero liabilities on Ahmtova. And then he decided to stick to it, saying that the electricity prices wouldn't go up when the electricity market started on July 1. But it doesn't explain, and why won't they grow? Because we're going to pay for this as Ukrainian citizens, we're going to pay each of us for this, because our enterprises are going to pay the state: nuclear power plants and hydroelectric power plants will compensate for this cost, and Ahmetov won't compensate for this cost. Here's the whole bookkeeping. Equally, noticeably in 2 steps they calculated everything in order to still take a little bit of money on the last day to feed and collect a personal election fund, and then all over the country there will be billboards, you'll see, the Greek will see us again and will be using us again as cattle, because the oligarchus will never be enough, it will always be small, it will always be to the last piece of Ukrainian citizens' pockets, because it has its own private airplanes, footballers, London's real estate so much that it's not enough for all of Ukraine to keep it all. So I ask you very much, in the next election, be careful not to be fooled by the masks of various political forces of ordinary wolves in sheep's hides before the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, the power vested in the person of the government who is currently in the last days has become an accomplice to this jerk, and we are all going to pay for it. But we have to put a dot in the election, and after the election, we have to change the rules of the game. And I have a few more seconds left, and I want to tell you about another story that personally applies to me as a Kiev resident, as a resident of the central areas of our region, the region where I grew up, and where the scenario is happening on a regular basis today.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u164	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u165	The historic division is being built on a regular basis. "Podal City Vintage" is a place of disgrace to today's Kiev authorities. Where you can't go, there'll be a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u166	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy of Logwinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u167	Dear friends, respectable citizens of Ukraine! You know, we all ask one basic question: How can we live well, how can we live so that we have money, and how can we live so that we can be proud that we are Ukrainians? The answer is, first of all, that we should be Europeans, but Europeans, not map by map, but Europeans, according to European concepts, values and making a European country. So that other countries of Europe will respect us, honor us and come to us, to the Ukrainians and say we have learned from you. This is what Donald Tusk said in this Parliament: "that Ukrainians should not be told what Europe is, that Ukrainians should learn what Europeanism is," because it is Ukraine that is now protecting Europe on the border with the Russian Federation. Right now, our troops are making our European partners, whom we always meet each week, feel protected and their children, their families. We talked a lot about the Budapest Memorandum, dear friends, sorry, but it was you who guaranteed that you would make us live in harmony, and it was your soldiers who should have come. But we did, we'll protect you, you can feel safe. But you must be together, together to respond to all the calls that exist in Europe, because without Ukraine there will be no Europe. I'd like to add a few important things. You know, honorable friends, now Crimean Tatars in Crimea, protecting Ukrainians, stay in captivity, actually on the peninsula of strict regime only because they want to be free -- just as free as we are now. And that's why they're proud when we can talk openly about what we think, what we think, what we do democratically, what we do in the right direction. That's why I urge you to do simple things. Let us call things our own name. A crime, an international crime, took place in Ukraine. We have victims: two million internally displaced persons. Russian money is located in European banks, in America, elsewhere. So let's arrest criminals' money and return to our citizens who have suffered their aggression. Dear friends from America and Europe, help to ensure that the rule of law is exercised in your countries. I know how, ask me, I know how to make a general blockade, a legal blockade on Russian assets. You know why? Because Russia needs to understand that this is very expensive, aggression against Ukraine. I'd like to add to the election code, my friends. Please support, we need to change this system. It was that time that Mr. Krivenk and I signed up for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u168	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u169	working here without interruptions to make all the amendments go away, and as soon as possible, we accepted a democratic election system. So, friends, Ukraine is Europe, Crimea is Ukraine. We're gonna win!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u170	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Ribak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u171	Dear Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! You know, today you've had to go to this rostrum to show your voters how important the bills I've registered with our colleagues from the Carpathian region are now awaiting consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. Because in these bills, the wages, the pensions of residents of the Ukrainian Carpathians, in my constituency, are Visniki, Kitzmanski, Putilski, St. This is the issue of the environmental security of Ukrainian Carpathians, the issue of the offences and preservation of Ukrainian Carpathians regarding the illegal logging of Ukrainian forests. Here are the issues relating to climate change, the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Instead, we're spending, we're wasting time on thousands of rights, which, in fact, will not go for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens. I clearly support the electoral system for open lists, the lists by which the parties will delegate candidates for consideration, to the Ukrainian electorate's judgment on the 100 percent majority majority majority system, which is related to the constituency. In fact, when you read that draft code, the Electoral Codex, you find absolute nonsense there. Because there are references to nonexistent articles of the law, not the code that we are considering with you. In fact, this document needs not to be considered here in the hall, but it needs a thorough examination of the expert environment, of us, of the honourable people's deputies. And I'm surprised why the committee sent the election code here to this very poor room. Probably because he doesn't want to be accepted in this room at all. Dear friends! I think that the electoral law or the electoral code is a fundamental document at all, because the history of the Ukrainian state in the future depends in many ways on the quality of the people who will come to this parliamentary room, who will think about what documents will be written that will depend on the future of the Ukrainians. We have a tough election campaign ahead of us. It's already started, but I hope that most of those people who have worked qualitatively for the last five years here in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament will still be here, and the Ukrainian Parliament will be institutionally capable and still be qualitative. Dear friends, you've won! And our voters are successful and right to make their own choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-06-07-m0.u172	Thank you. I'm going to allow because there's been a lot of attention here, and there's a fair deal here, the Minsk Accords, the restoration of the negotiations, the threat of rematch, and I'd also like to comment on what's going on today in the Queen of Security and Foreign Policy in Ukraine. I think no one is surprised that Russia is interested in reinstating pressure on Ukraine and testing the boundaries, boundaries, and boundaries of Ukrainian society as long as it can pass, as long as it can pressure us. Of course, the "Minsk" didn't give, it wouldn't give peace, because it wasn't designed for that. "Minsk" didn't give us the opportunity to rebuild the territory, "Minsk" didn't protect our lives. Why? Why doesn't "minish format" work, why does "normal format" not work, why does "Budapest format" or "Geneva Plus" not work? But it's very simple. Because, as the classics have written, "For crying has not given freedom to anyone else, but he who fights is the one who gains the world." We need a Ukrainian format, we need a format that will make us strong. And our power is also a few dimensions. First of all, we need to build up the military's flying capacity. You don't have to be ashamed of that. If we are to be free from war, we must be prepared for war every day. If we want our soldiers not to die, then someone has to be afraid to kill them. Only in this way can we become strong. Strength is also in alliances today. There is no single state that is willing to oppose the power of Russia. This means that we must combine our efforts with those of the nations that understand the threat posed by Russia. These are our neighbours and this is the United States, Canada, which is the countries for which Russia is clearly a threat. And one more thing is very important. In order to become strong, we must punish our enemies inside us. Today, Medvedchuk and Boyk returned to Moscow. They must be punished and not only for this. Because these are the people who opened the door to the enemy. And if the enemy sits in our midst, we won't fight the enemy outside. And it's very important that we can't disconnect Crimea and Donbas. The Ukrainian format means that these occupied territories are occupied equally for us. Disengagement of these territories means both loss and loss. After all, the strong are the ones who follow, not the ones who are being dragged. And if we want to be strong, strength will only appear if we determine for ourselves what is important, acceptable, and necessary. Thank you. I want to inform the people's deputies and all of our listeners and viewers that the following week the national MPs are working on committees, commissions and factions. Also, in view of the celebration of the Trinity on June 16, June 17, the Conciliation Council will be held on Tuesday, June 18, at 10 a.m., and the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 12 p.m. 30 minutes on June 18. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
