ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u1	Good morning! Everyone, please come into the hall, get ready for registration. Ready? Please register and, colleagues, please register. [[10:02:42]] 342 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Colleagues, January 16, are unofficially referred to as the day of the Ukrainian cyborgs. It was during these winter days of 2015 that heavy fighting took place at Donetsk airport. Russian invaders have attacked the defenders of Donetsk Airport hundreds of times. Without concrete, metal melted, but our Ukrainian soldiers stood still. Our fighters held back and did not surrender to the occupation of the Donetsk airport. Then, in January 15th, it was very symbolic. I'll remind you that our fighters left the airport only when there's nothing left of it. Our soldiers were fascinated by the whole world, praying for them all over Ukraine. On the other hand, I want to thank all the men and women, the real heroes who at these moments are defending the peace of the entire Ukrainian people. This day our Ukrainian slogan sounds more special: "Glory to Ukraine!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u2	Welcome to our warriors. And the eternal memory of the dead. I remind you that today we have 30 minutes of performances by national MPs, not by factions, but by national MPs. So I ask everyone who intends to participate in the discussion to prepare for the recording. I'd like you to record the speeches by the national deputies. Buglak Yuri Aleksandrovich Please. Microphone's on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u3	Please pass the word to Constantine Usov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u4	Good morning, dear colleagues. Constantine Usov, 33 constituency, the city of Curve Rig. Dear Ukrainian people, you notice that the pre-election fever is apparently getting very serious. At the first meeting in 2019 of the Conciliation Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the representative of the Fatherskin faction, Detective Kožemyakin, performed a traditional circus number called "our activists are being beaten, our party is being destroyed" and left me as the national deputy of Ukraine from the Horn of Crimson with groundless accusations of organizing wrong actions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Quiet! No questions asked. Cosmiakin’s creative talent is well - known to all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Cosemiakin’s stalwart talent has been known since then. Did you hear yesterday's statement? I answer it. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've got something on fire. Again. Kožemiakin’s stalwart talent has been known to Ukrainians since he officially offered to reward the former national deputy’s national order from the Lozinski Bay, a golovan murderer who served more than 10 years in prison for arranging safari for man. But in this case, I want to comment on what happened, what happened, what was going on. Right after New Year's Eve, an animal attack was carried out on one of the supporters of the Fatherland party in Bloody Rose, called the Mirzoyans. The man was beaten, his head was broken, and he was severely injured. This is not the first attack on active citizens in my hometown of Krivbas. On these facts, I have repeatedly addressed the law enforcement agencies in writing and in public: both the Attorney General’s Office and the National Police. Attacks on active and uncaring people are taking place throughout the country, as you know. And I believe that this neo-pheodalism in Ukraine has led to the fact that in every region now there is its own Katya Gandzük. In this context, what have we heard about the advances made by the head of the parliamentary committee in securing Cosemiakin’s legal protection? Nothing. Sterile. Full zero. He's not just not taking steps to bring the system into the law-enforcement system, he's using his position as yesterday at the Conciliation Council (and I'm asking for extra time) to carry out dirty political discredits. As an answer, I want to say it calmly. I am suing Kožemyakina for the protection of honor, dignity, and business reputation, of course. But second and foremost. As an officer, I believe that Cosemakin has until the end of this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u5	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u6	direct concern for the authorities of the National Police in Bloody Rose and ask him to be questioned as a witness in the investigating judge. There he will be able to repeat all his stories about me, only now as a witness under oath, being warned of criminal responsibility for knowingly unreliable reports of crime. It's his only chance to prove he's a general, not an irresponsible baboon. It's an honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u7	Corchin Oksana. And, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to keep their emotions lower, because when there's an accusation coming from one side, it's always going to have an answer. Please, Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u8	Praise Jesus Christ! The Parliament has just honored our heroes in the war. I now request that my statement be formulated as a parliamentary request for mass corruption, which takes place for several years in our military medical commissions and in our MSECs, when our heroes are legally unable to obtain disability groups. Peter Alexyuk, a hero, was seriously injured two years ago, still without a hitch on the crutch. From him is the military central, military medical commission, Major Naumov, at the hands of his superior, who is still not sitting, although it is clearly stated in the records that Major Naumov proposed to hand over a thousand and a half dollars for the third disability group to our hero to his superior. Regrettably, when the search of Major Naumov was conducted in the workplace and at home, 37 current cases of our heroes were found. In each envelope, there were between $700 and $4,000. Instead, this respectable corruption gave the third group of invalidity in protecting the Fatherland to former DAI workers who were between Zaporezka, the Donetsk region, and they received the second group in protecting the Motherland. Instead, the former head of the Dnipropetrov Hospital received a group III and 440,000 dollars from the State, from the Ministry of Defence, for accidentally hitting a ladder while performing his duties. Instead, an active chief of the Zaporozhye Hospital, Colonel, received the third group in the protection of the Motherland, located in the Zaporozhye region. The Ministry of Defense gave me $530,000 for that. For the diseases she got in Zaporozhye! How can respect for our heroes be appreciated when military medical commissions and the MSECs engage in corruption each day?Oh, my God! Our Anticorruption Committee unanimously supported the appeal of all the M.E.C. and the V.C.C., the Minister of Defense, to Mrs. Ulyana Suprun, to all the mayors and governors. First. Make a thorough audit of the publishers of the disability group in protecting the Motherland. This is more than 5,000 people, of whom only 3,000 have received legally actually, protecting our Fatherland in the East. The rest is, excuse me, rogues or corrupts who just bought themselves a disability! Instead, the state paid them the money they needed to compensate. At the same time, regardless of the law we're with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u9	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u10	Thank you. Instead of the law that works now that every defender of the Motherland who has been injured, injured or ill with the protection of the Motherland is automatically given one group above, and if he has at least one organ lost, his disability group is termless. That is why they demand money! I demand a thorough audit and verification of everyone, and punishment of the corrupt! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u11	Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to congratulate all the citizens of Ukraine, taking this opportunity, once again with the New Year, with Christmas Christ, from all the deputies of the Opposition Platform for Life, with the coming Resurrection, with the understanding that the 19th year is the coming year for Ukraine to receive both the new President and the new Parliament. We understand how difficult this year will be, how the authorities and the acting president will do everything they can to remain in power, regardless of the will of the people. And we see this from what's happening in all of the regions of our country. I can tell by the example of the Odessa region, what the presidential team is doing under the terms "Faith. Army. In the President's constant conversation from the church amvona of Tomos television, which is important to Ukraine, we see that the presidential team is launching a total system of forging elections, a set of votes. A huge network is being built where citizens will be offered large sums of money to vote for an active president. Instead of dealing with the issue as a law enforcement authority, the prosecutor's office has unleashed total pressure on the opposition politicians, on those who are opposed to the active Ukrainian authorities, not against the Ukrainian state, but against the Ukrainian authorities, who are destroying our state. I can give an example of the mayor of the city of Balgrad Dimitriev Sergio Gavrilovich, who was charged with a criminal case, totally illegal, where there is no crime or fact of crime, nothing at all. And the whole fault of Mr. Dimitriev is that he refers to the opposition politicians to the central Ukrainian authorities. The man who has done so much for the city is being destroyed, in fact, at the direction of the headquarters, the presidential headquarters in the Odessa region. I appeal to the prosecutor’s office, to the Ukrainian citizens not to commit illegal acts, to carry out their professional duties. And to the citizens of Ukraine come to the polls, give their vote for those candidates who can actually bring peace to Ukraine, actually restore the normal development of our state and really do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u13	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u14	Indeed, to make our nation truly independent and powerful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u15	Thank you. The next is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Gives the floor to Oleni Babak. That's what happens in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u16	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Of course, this year will be a political year. But it is vital for all of us that the Ukrainians do not run out of water this year, that they do not run out of heat, and that they do not experience the negative effects of extremely important reforms, such as the reform of the electricity market. To that end, my honourable colleagues, I call upon all of you to pay attention to the importance of the two bills, which unfortunately we did not include in the agenda yesterday, is draft Laws 9406 and 9406-1. These are bills that need to address certain shortcomings that are inadequately addressed in terms of obtaining, acquiring electricity from enterprises such as water and heat. Regrettably, the law does not allow these companies to obtain electricity at a normal price. And today, about 60 water canals, 30 heat power generators have reached the so-called "last hope" provider and have to pay for electricity at very high prices, and April 1st is actually going to stop supplying electricity to these companies, not figure out how and with whom they should contract. So these bills offer mechanisms to implement them, like these enterprises get water. And that's for you to understand, this is Donbas Water, this is Harkov thermals, this is Hersonheat Supply, and a lot of other businesses, not to mention small businesses. This problem is known today by local authorities. They call on us all, the national MPs of all political powers, despite all political warnings, ambitions and so forth, to remove the technical problem in the Power Market Act and to enable businesses to function in water-, heat supply completely in normal mode. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to vote and put these draft laws into order for the day four times, vote them out and give businesses the opportunity to work, water and heat. I also want to draw the government's attention to the fact that the last-hop provider of the mine has been hit. And the mines, the government mines, they could run out of electricity on April 1. And what that means is everybody knows. I pay attention to this urgent problem: the supply of electricity to government mines so that people don't lose their jobs and mines to function on April 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u17	Gabrieluk Mikhailo gives the floor to Bondar Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u18	Christ was born! Bondar Mikhailo, 119 constituency. Indeed, much is being said about our soldiers on the Day of Worship of the Cyborgs. Just yesterday, boys from Umani, as well as cyborgs, came and raised the issue of abuse of the position of some national deputies. I'm going to take a personal look at this. And I think my colleagues, my boys who fought, will help. And I would like to read today a letter from the Crimean Ukrainian, a veteran, a public activist, a representative of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea at the Veterans' Council of the Ministry of Veterans. "There are soldiers and officers from Crimea who have marks that have not betrayed and faithfully and honourably carried out their duties on the front. These people lost all their property in Crimea, and they have nothing here. Most of the time, their property is looted in Crimea and the road is closed there. There are 280 U.S. ministers' decrees to help our Crimean and other veterans get housing. The decree works, and in 2018, the funds were paid to 54 fighters from the number of displaced persons. So far, 1 thousand 334 people have been registered and filed throughout Ukraine, but only 25 million dollars have been allocated for 2019. If you do basic calculations, it's not more than 20-25 participants in combat operations, so you have to increase funding." The veteran notes that "the corruption component is also felt, there is a manual distribution of funds." It's not an accusation, it's a suspicion on his part. "I want to turn to you and ask you, first of all, to ask for an increase in funds and, second of all, to find the truth about the corruption component of the decision. With respect, Sergey Vikarczuk-Eupatorian." So I'd like to go to the Cabinet of Ministers again just to increase the cost of awarding housing compensation for displaced persons involved in combat. I hope that my speech will be heard and that this issue will be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u19	Thank you. The Lensky Alexius gives the word for Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u20	Victor Halasyuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Dear Ukrainians, the International Monetary Fund has published a new report on Ukraine: it is 111 pages of the economic programme that the Ukrainian government promises to introduce under the IMF dictatorship, detailed calculations and forecasts. Moreover, this document is only published in English; it is not even translated into Ukrainian. Because what is said there really shocks every citizen. Increasing gas prices for the population, limiting subsidies, policies for expensive loans, expensive funds from the National Bank, as one of the main priorities is limiting domestic demand. What does that mean? This means limiting the income of Ukrainians. These are the priorities set out in the memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, what the Ukrainian authorities promise to do against the national interests of Ukraine. Why would they do that? It's said to be 5 percent inflation after the 21st year. Well, that's ridiculous. Anyone who knows the history of our successful neighbors: Turkey, Poland, other successful countries like China -- they know that when they grew strong and grew at least 7-8 percent per year, inflation was more than 10 percent, but it was projected. And economic growth is when people's incomes grow faster than inflation. This is what we need to do. So those priorities that are set out in the memorandum, they conflict with national interests, they make Ukraine a poor, dependent, raw colony, they pin millions of Ukrainians on emigration, and they make the Ukrainian economy weak, dependent and submerged into very long-term stagnation. Oleg Láska’s Radical Party team proposes a completely opposite policy. It's not the freezing, it's not the warming of the economy, it's not the drugs for the Ukrainian economy, it's the real treatment, the rehabilitation and the development of the economy. This knows how a patient who has a temperature below 40 instead of being treated is placed in a refrigerator to break his temperature. What is the prospect? You and I understand that we need to treat, support and strengthen the economy. When the authorities say "no money," we answer in the Radical Party: Stop doing stupid things. When you're buying Chinese wheels for the Crossroads instead of the Lower Provo pipeline factory, when you're buying helicopters in France instead of the Parisian Motor City, when you're buying imported cars in Kiev, Poland instead of the Levian Electron or the Tatra South, that's the policy of eating, poverty, eternal dependence. So we need to develop our own industry, as proposed by the radical team.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Oksana Bilozer invites you to the presentation. Mrs. Oksana, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u22	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, distinguished members of the presidency, dear Ukrainian community! On these days, when our great spiritual festivals are being hailed over Ukraine, I would like to rediscover the vital role of the Eighth Assembly of Ukraine from this rostrum. It was the Ukrainian Parliament of the Eighth Call under the leadership of Andria Paruba that, by its decisions, cemented those remarkable contributions of the President of Ukraine on the way to gaining our spiritual freedom. Indeed, President Poroshenko, during the presidency of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, has placed the greatest treasure of the dream, a struggle that has been fought for many centuries and many generations of Ukrainians, is spiritual freedom and spiritual independence. Imagine, 333 years of spiritual slavery, destruction of our language, our tradition, our culture! And we're free with you today. We can see how all believers are drawn to the bosom of our Orthodox Church of Ukraine. During such a small period of time, more than 70 parishes entered the womb of the Mother Church. And we need to take another important step, because our legislation lacks procedures and clear mechanisms for changing the belongings of the religious community and preserving property and building temples. That is why Parliament will immediately – it will be Thursday – tomorrow – must legislate clear and fair rules, because President Poroshenko has repeatedly stressed the need to ensure religious peace and free choice. A difficult, difficult election year. There will be many manipulations, including the fight against Ukraine by the Kremlin's aggressor country. So we Ukrainian MPs will do everything we can to preserve peace, stability and ensure a clean, transparent election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. And the people's deputy Sauka is invited to the floor. You're welcome, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u24	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Christ was born! Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! Today, on this day of cyborg heroes, we're talking about the very best, these sons of the country and the daughters -- the very best of the best that's become to protect our territory of Ukraine, they've done everything they can to protect our nation. And Donetsk Airport couldn't handle the metal rods, couldn't withstand the iron concrete, but our soldiers, the sons of Ukraine, stood up for our country of Ukraine. But today, in our territory, Ukrainian veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are turning to me for help, because they're going into exile, humiliation, threats coming from so-called leaders and deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I want to go to the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office with a certain investigation into Umani, where the Ukrainian people's deputies demean the honour and dignity of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the soldiers who in due course protected and protected our territorial integrity, including the volunteers. No one dares to raise his hand and insult our defenders. Yes, war is going on, but war is going on inside our country of Ukraine, unfortunately. Because those who in their time in 2014 were driving to Midan's so-called aunts, they want to show themselves at the moment, raise their heads. We should pay attention to that. Not allowing these Moscow - run people to make sure that our Ukraine is not protected. We must do everything we can to protect our country. So for today, I urge you, your fellow countrymen, to turn to our constituencies, to our own, to speak where. To go to the people, to the veterans, to those guys and girls who in their time were protecting and protecting our country, and to protect our country in a consistent way. And do everything they can to make them feel.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u25	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u26	Thank you. Therefore, we must do our utmost to ensure that our soldiers are protected, our veterans of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We now know very well when a campaign is under way and an information war is waged from Moscow, certain people, so-called people, are doing their best to implement Moscow propaganda. We can't let that happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u27	Thank you. The People’s Deputies are invited to the floor. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u28	Opposition Block, Alexander Dudenkov. The citizens of Ukraine, first of all, would like to welcome you with the New Year, the Christmas of Christ, and your distinguished colleagues. What I'm saying is that 2019 will be not so much a political season, but a year of political popularism and promise by different factions and groups that were once part of the "European Ukraine" coalition, that they will make a better life for Ukrainian citizens. Sadly, though, the existence of this coalition results in diametrically opposite results and consequences. Why? And according to the World Bank, Ukraine is already the poorest country in Europe, yes, for a moment. No one's talking about it here. He talks about the army, about the language, about the religion, and there's no faction about the economy. The previous speakers here said that our team, our programs will bring the economy out of the crisis. What did you think when you signed a coalition agreement in the 14th year? All factions except the Opposition Block signed the treaty. So I want to tell you, Ukrainian citizens, the consequences that we're seeing right now, which we're seeing for 2019, are all the consequences of the signed Coalition Agreement, because there's a black-and-white reference to strategic cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. And instead of the fact that we have real power and coalition and factions that are essentially very close to the coalition, because they are also signatories in 2014, and, more simply speaking, all of them, except for the Opposition Block, are waiting for us, with you and you? And the news isn't very comforting – what the authorities won't do. It will not make a fundamental change in tax policy. We don't see as our ears the tax on the resulting capital. No change in income tax will take place. We don't see any tax benefits or tax amnesty. We can't see this year's accumulated pension system -- here's the pension reform that's been undertaken to raise the retirement age to 65 years and increase 5 million pensioners by only 300 dollars. It's over-inflation. It's in a catastrophic decline in purchasing power. This is because the economy did not reach the 2013 level. What are we looking forward to this year? And we're looking at a further increase in natural gas. The increase in natural gas to 80 percent of market value will lead to an increase in heating tariffs, resulting in an increase in hot water tariffs, and cold water. What awaits us this year? Especially.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u29	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u30	Thank you. If in 2013 the electricity tariff was 33 kips, now – 1 gbr. 70 per kilowatt-hour – an increase of 5 times. If the gas tariff was 930 dollars per thousand cubic meters, it is now 8.5,000 dollars per thousand cubic meters -- an increase of 10 times. Since 01.01.20, this authority has already signed a memorandum, and it will increase natural gas tariffs to 12,000 dollars. That's more than 12 times. The hot water tariffs: 16 bracelets were in the 13th year, 75 bracelets per meter cubic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u31	Thank you. The last performance in our section was by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, Mr. Igor Mosiyczuk. And then, dear fellows, we have two more statements before the opening statement. Please, Mr. Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u32	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Ukrainian national wisdom says that the enemy’s treatment is without health. It's about our Ministry of Health, it's about the responsibilities of an illegal minister of health, Mrs. Ulyana Suprun, who is imposed on the Ukrainian State by external factors and who is essentially engaged in the destruction of Ukrainian medicine, Ukrainian medical education and the medical sector as a whole. What's really going on? Everyone says that the MoH is now struggling with corruption, that drug purchases in Ukraine are taking place transparently because international partners are doing so. In an agreement signed with the IMF, the right to purchase medical supplies to foreign representatives is now transferred again every year. So, foreign representatives bought hepatitis tests last year in the aggressor countries of the Russian Federation, and that's the same thing as being produced in Kiev and Kharkiv. It's just the destruction of Ukrainian pharmacology and Ukrainian medical science -- what Mrs. Suprun does. At the direction of the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lalashka, I appealed to the administrative court to confirm the discharge of Mrs. Suprun’s responsibility as Minister of Health, who is in charge of her position completely illegally, and for the sake of the international partners alone, the Comprading Government now holds her in office. We are confident that we will be brought to justice, and we will be able to obtain the release of Ulysses Suprun. And now, under the Cabinet of Ministers, Ukrainian students from Odessa Medina who were eliminated with the Crimean Medina, and the Crimean was eliminated on the day that the decision on the Crimea reintegration program was made. Crimea reintegration The Ukrainian government began by eliminating Crimea Meduniversity. Well, there are students there now, demanding the removal of Mrs. Ulyana Suprun. And I urge you, colleagues, to go to the students and support the students. Glory to Ukraine! Praise to Ukrainian Medicine!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we're out of speeches by the national MPs. We now have three statements from MPs and factions for a break, but our colleagues are ready to replace these breaks. And I invite you now to the word in order of order, as stated. Please, Mr. Sažko, we invite you. It's a hat. Sažko, Mr. Sažko. There were statements from the Opposition Block and the Rebirth Group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u34	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Sergey Sažko, 59th constituency, Donetskina. Today, I want to draw your attention to the critical situation that has arisen at the state-owned Seldivugil company. For the first time in the history of an independent Ukraine, women were declared hungry for their rights. Ten days ago, the workers of the Cotlarevska coal laboratory starved because they had not received a salary since July. And only after that did they get paid in part. Think of what it would take to bring about the coal industry, so that women would weigh their hunger. Qualified engineers with many years of experience work for a minimum wage, but neither do they. Hence, their demands are perfectly legal: full repayment of debt, promotion and timely payment of wages, and cancellation of the current distribution of workers to industry and non - industry groups. It's the distribution of people working in mines, in the first and second classes. Shame! It seems that the current authority has nothing to do with this. In all 10 days, as women, no official of the Ministry of Education, or government, were hungry, they were able to make their way to their home and find out about the situation. Although I personally highly recommend visiting mining cities and listening to what ordinary people say about their so - called reforms. I am not surprised by the lack of response from the authorities. The question is, what is this about? Is it about indifference to your own citizens? Or is it totally unprofessional? The coal industry did not start yesterday. But as bad as it is now, it wasn't even in the '90s, the miners say. How many times we met at round tables, held meetings, initiated meetings, and heard many promises from the minister of profile and the Prime Minister, but that was the case. On Monday at the meeting with the miners, Energy Minister Igor Nasalik openly stated that this year would be a year of coal survival because no money had been given again. For more than three years, the state has made no contribution to the modernization of production. What's next? Stopping businesses? The work of only four Sedidevogila mines depends on the fate of 6,000 workers with families and the future of 6 cities! Is that what the Ministry was thinking? The entire fault is placed on the shoulders of coal - mining managers, who are appointed by the Ministry. I call on the Prime Minister and the President to take urgent action to save the coal sector. I demand that the Minister of Energy report clearly and clearly to the MPs and miners what he has done for the coal sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u35	Thank you. Next statement from two factions: the People's Front and the Radical Party. And they also agree to replace the break for the performance. And here's a word for Valeria Zarzko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u36	Valeria Zarzko, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lašek. Unfortunately, the Ukrainians continue their economic policies, which offer the Ukrainians poverty, begging, labour migration, humiliation and lack of prospects. The disaster has taken place in the state-owned Selidewwicil company. I was approached by the employees of the mines "1/3 Novogrodivska", "Kotlarevska", "Kurahivska" and "Ukraine". Not only do people get bullied without paying their wages at the right time, they kill the Ukrainian coal industry, threatening to shut down electricity, leave the mine without water and air. Why is this happening? The government buys coal abroad. The country’s coal industry is not needed by the authorities, unfortunately. And miners need immediate help because people are tired, people say they're encouraged to go abroad. Whole cities can be empty without people. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška systematically supports the Ukrainian industry and Ukrainian miners. Under our pressure, Bill 8362 was passed in July of this year, which allowed coal to be further funded and to give miners a chance for the future. We've proposed an industrial reform package -- industrial recovery, domestic incentives. We demand real reform of the coal sector so that coal miners have a future. We demand the adoption of our bill "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" so that miners are confident that they will have work and a decent salary here in Ukraine, they won't have to leave. We demand that the authorities stop playing with millions of Ukrainians, stop destroying jobs in Ukraine, stop conducting shameful electoral polls and find out who people will vote for, and if they do not vote for active power, threaten them with not paying their wages. People already know that if you stay in power, they will receive neither reform nor timely pay. The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška offers an alternative: new jobs, industrial recovery, confidence in the future, dignity, and prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u37	Thank you. And the final combination: a statement from two factions of the Fatherland and Self-Help. And they also agree to replace the break for the performance. And by the way, I'd like to invite Wadim Yvchenk. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u38	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I would now like to protect every colleague who works at the Committee of Law, every officer. You know that the laws of this committee are passed mostly by a majority in the Supreme Council. And we are proud that this committee is headed by the representative of Fatherland, Lieutenant General Cosemiakin, for the second time in a row. I want to say that these are the most professional people who are respected today, not only in the Supreme Council Hall, who are respected by the Generality, who are respected by the officer's composition. And I ask with the respect of every MP that we name a last name and not add any incomprehensible words, as certain beans do in this room. The other one. I want to ask and tell everyone again. Colleagues, this is a rather sensitive subject for us when district deputies, local councils today, are being persecuted for political beliefs. I want to say again, today all the city authorities in Cherkasa are under suspicion, they're not allowed to work. Even the head of the "young man" of the city. The district organization of the Cherka district also received suspicion. I want to remind you, in the Odessa area today, the head of Fatherland, the deputy head of the district council, got three bullet wounds in the back, and no one's investigating today. I want to say that the Odarchenka National Deputy, directly his assistant, was hit by a car, and he got two bullet wounds. And we're asking you to investigate these matters. I mean, today we got beat up, beaten up by iron rods by a city council member of the Horn of Curve. And we want to investigate these cases. I want to say today that this is directly what's called persecution of opposition, it's opposition MPs, opposition leaders, for example, parties, district leaders from the opposition that are being persecuted and intimidated, no one is taking any responsibility. So count our application as a request to the Attorney General, to the Minister of Internal Affairs, to investigate all these cases as quickly as possible and to make every effort to punish those crimes. And I ask you not to insult any of the colleagues, especially when they are officers who serve to protect territorial integrity and Ukraine in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u39	Thank you, colleagues. No more applications were received, it was a closing statement. And we can move on to the issues of order of the day. Colleagues, the first is the draft law on Ukraine’s accession to the Expanded Partial Agreement on Sport (0205). A previous faction survey has shown that this ratification is supported by all factions and groups in Parliament. And that's why we have the opportunity today to discuss it and, I believe, to make a positive decision. My first vote is, who wants us to consider draft Law 0205 in a simplified procedure? Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[10:50:31]] For-83 People’s deputies showed their willingness to consider the full procedure of the draft law. And I invite you to report to the deputy minister of youth and sports, Mr. Mikhano Petrovich. Mikola Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u40	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues! I have the honour to present a draft Ukrainian law on Ukraine's accession to the Enhanced Partial Partnership Agreement on Sport (EPAS) of the Council of Europe. According to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, Ukraine's draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Extended Part-Agreement on Sport (EPAS) was submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. The draft act was developed by the Ministry of Youth and Sport of Ukraine to improve inter-governmental cooperation in the field of physical culture and sport within the Council of Europe and is a further step towards Ukraine's European integration. The goal of the Enhanced Partial Partnership Agreement (EPAS) is to give new impetus to European-wide sports cooperation, to make sport more ethical, inclusive, and safe. This agreement is a platform for intergovernmental cooperation in the field of sport between the authorities of the member states of the Council of Europe. Members of the Expanded Partial Sport Agreement of the Council of Europe may be both members of the Council of Europe and non-member countries. For example, Israel, Morocco, and Belarus have already joined this covenant. Today, 38 countries are members of the Expanded Partial Sport Agreement (EPAS). This agreement uses important and effective instruments of the Council of Europe such as the European Sports Charter, the Code of Sports Ethics, the Anti-Doping Convention, the Convention against the Control of Sports Competitions, the Convention on the Comprehensive Approach to Safety, Safety and Services in Football Games, and other sporting activities. Ukraine's participation in the Expanded Partial Sport Agreement provides for our nation's annual contribution to the budget of this agreement. Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance has agreed to a draft Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s accession to the Enhanced Partial Agreement on Sport (EPAS) without notice. The 2019 budget provides for the cost of Ukraine’s membership contribution to the Enhanced Partial Agreement on Sport (EPAS) of $363 thousand,300, corresponding to 17,000, 838 euros and 56 cents. The more countries join this agreement, the less the amount of membership. Advantages from Ukraine’s accession to the Expanded Partial Sport Agreement will be far greater than the amount of the annual contribution to this agreement. This will allow our nation to become an even more active participant in the European processes in the field of physical culture and sport, contribute to the expansion of government co-operation between Ukraine and the member states of the Council of Europe and the integration of Ukraine into European and world societies, including by adapting Ukraine's legislation to the legislation of the Council of Europe. It is in Ukraine’s national interest to join the EPAS. This will also allow us to influence the Council of Europe’s policies and legislative activities in the areas of physical culture and sports, to participate in active programmes and projects, such as combating corruption in sport, manipulating sports, doping in sports, violence in sports, and other negative phenomena in sports. Accession to this agreement will allow Ukraine to participate in joint projects of the Council of Europe and the European Union, to study and apply better experience and practices of other European countries in the field of physical culture and sport, to conduct trainings, seminars, conferences, round tables, etc. In addition, Ukraine's accession to the Enhanced Partial Agreement on Sport (EPAS) is an important and effective tool for Ukraine's sport diplomacy and for Ukraine's European integration. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account what has been said, please support the proposed draft Ukrainian Law on the Integration of Ukraine into the Extended Part-Agreement on Sport (EPAS). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u41	Thank you. But you stay in the rostrum because there are other questions for the reporter. I'm asking you to record a question to the reporter. Aresonkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u42	Mr. Deputy, please tell me, or specify, if possible, in the last few years, which financial, let's say. What kind of financial assistance, yes, are we talking about or what kind of joint projects? What amounts can come to Ukraine today, let's say, for the development of some kind of sport, is it not at all this side? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Ukraine two years ago. We ratified the convention in this room. ratified the Council of Europe Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions. And this convention. This convention is. An extended partial agreement on sports is a roof convention. It's a roof treaty for those conventions. And because we ratified, we became the third member of the Council of Europe to do so. That's how we get in here: first are trainings, seminars, conferences aimed at promoting all of these. The issue of ethics, the fight against sport manipulation and other issues. For example, we're going to take place at the expense of the Council of Europe in February here in Kiev, a large regional seminar called the Council of Europe, Ukraine and GUAM, aimed at promoting this convention against the manipulation of sports competitions that enter the ERAS, and also other areas that touch, for example, the fight against violence at stadiums, the fight against doping. As a result, we will be more active in defending our interests within the Council of Europe in the context of combating doping in sport. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u44	Kishkar Paul, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u45	Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you for your introduction. The only thing that's a little bit controversial is going to apply to the general sport system in the state. Do you agree that the most important tasks of the state are the percentage of people involved in sports, and in professional sports those indicators and those victories are our flag and anthems in international competitions? And in this regard, we have proposed clear and clear systemic changes in the sport system, which, by the way, are included in the Minister's Sport Reform Program, including Money for the Child, the Olympic Charter implementation, which we have now submitted 8450. And cynically, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, along with the members of the committee, ignored the implementation of the Olympic Charter. That measure of efficiency of local self - government bodies, which will also determine the percentage of people involved and the rewards that athletes receive in international competitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u46	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u47	The National Movement of Ukraine requires the decentralization of sport procurement and the transfer of all remittances to national federations. And the National Olympic Committee according to the Olympic Charter has finally, as in all civilized countries, to form a national Olympic team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. First of all, our ministry, we work in many ways, including development and sport for all, mass sport, and sports of higher achievement. We work within the framework of the Olympic Charter, within the framework of UNESCO documents, within the framework of an extended paper. within the framework of the UNESCO Expanded Agreement on Physical Activity and Sport, in addition, within the various institutions and departments and the Council of Europe agreements. So our ministry on this issue is fully in line with our tasks as set out in our ministry. Every year we take steps to promote the health of the Ukrainian population. For example, last year, for the first time, thanks to the work of our ministry, we were given the official evocation of the European Commission for the European Week of Sport in Ukraine, which is aimed at developing physical activity, development, sports of the population, mass. And we did it successfully. That's what this year is going to be. Then our ministry will support the International Yoga Day to keep the population active.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u49	30 seconds. We're done, aren't we? And the final question is from Romanov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u50	Dear Deputy Minister, of course, the Self-Help faction always supports sports. We always support the physical culture of the population. And here's the question. Of course, we welcome the fact that the ministry wants to integrate itself, but nevertheless, if we have a general problem of sports and physical culture among our population, there is a discrepancy between the number of people who engage in sports. We have Ukraine taking first place in the number of airline accidents from drug abuse in the world, first place in the world. Please tell me, what specific strategic documents have been developed by the Ministry to increase the number of people involved in physical education and sports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u51	Thank you so much for asking. First, our ministry actively promotes a healthy lifestyle, a fight against drug abuse, the fight against alcoholism, the fight against tobacco. You know, in the 16th year, our ministry actively joined, developed a strategy that was approved by the President of Ukraine on motor activity and healthy lifestyles. That was in February of the 16th. This is a very important document for us, and in this document we have taken into account the best practices of member countries. The point is that all these questions are reflected in this document, and our ministry is organizing various activities along with Sports for All, along with various federations, both Olympic and neo-Olympic sports, with the National Olympic Committee and others, aimed at development and strengthening and motor activity, and the healthy way of life of the Ukrainian population and of all types of people: both children and young and middle-aged, and the elderly. So this question remains very important to us. And here I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u52	Thank you. So your time is up. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on European Integration’s subcommittee, Biozr Oksana Volodymyrna. Mikola Petrovich, thank you. Mrs. Oksana. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u53	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister for such an extensive report, Your Honor, because the bill that we are currently considering is actually designed to carry out the internal procedures necessary for Ukraine's accession to the Extended Part-Participation Agreement on Sport (EPAS). By joining the Expanded Partial Sports Agreement, Ukraine can participate in active programs and projects aimed at combating corruption in sports, manipulating sports, violence during sports, and other negative phenomena in sports. I would like to point out once again that one of the achievements of this Expanded Agreement was the preparation of the Council of Europe Convention against the manipulation of sports competitions, which was opened for signature in September of the 14th year. Ukraine ratified this convention against the manipulation of sports competitions in November of the 16th. In the same vein, once again, Ukraine has become the third member state of the Council of Europe since Norway and Portugal and the third country in the world that has ratified the said convention. Thus, according to an explanatory note to the draft law, Ukraine’s participation in the EPAS provides for an annual payment of membership fees. This amount was called the deputy minister, it's small -- it's in the area of 20,000 euros, and this amount is already in the budget -- that is, no extra expenses -- it's set up on a particular program. The Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration at its meeting on 18 December 18th reviewed the draft law. National committee members decided to submit a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council and recommend that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you. Please arrange for a successful vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u54	Mrs. Oksana! Please come back, Mrs. Oksana. Mrs. Oksana, please return to your position, three more minutes to answer your questions. Please. And I'd like you to record a question to the co-rapporteur. Marchenko Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u55	Please pass the word to the Deputy Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u56	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Kiev. Dear Mrs. Oksana, I'd like to ask you a question just under this agreement, maybe you can name some of these key positions. Obviously, it is about participating in this Expanded Agreement for Ukraine that will enable it, in particular, to focus its efforts on combating corruption in sport, manipulating sports competitions, violence during sporting activities, other negative phenomena in sports. Can you identify some of the basic measures and basic opportunities that will arise in Ukraine if you join this agreement, specifically against these negative phenomena in sports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u57	Thank you for asking. It will also enhance Ukraine's ability to participate in the statutory committee meeting, where various projects and proposals are being considered for joint implementation challenges and solutions to those challenges, common challenges, joint programmes where Ukraine is an active participant. And that's why this bill is Euro-Integrated, it's consistent with the International Contracts Act, and it's very necessary for adoption. Once again, it opens up new opportunities for the Ukrainian state and for Ukrainian sport, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u58	Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u59	Please pass the word to Mazoli Roman Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u60	Good afternoon! Roman Macola, Hmelnicka district, 190 constituency. Mrs. Oksana, this probably isn't a question to you anymore, but I wanted to ask Deputy Minister Mikola Petrovich. This is all good, of course, we will support this determination, because any thing that concerns improving for our athletes is good. But, you know, I'm driving around the county communicating and I'm looking at how sad the situation in our sport is. I just want to say thank you to these coaches, really, because they're patriots of their business, without financial resources, without the ability of trainers, and yet they're raising, really, athletes, who are today taking seats not only in Ukraine, but also in the world. So the request to go there, more to finance it and improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u61	You know, this deal is actually going to create an opportunity for Ukraine, which is going to form appropriate projects on the payout grant, to implement one or the other programs, starting with small schools and finishing large clubs. So once again, I want to stress that this also opens up opportunities for solving our internal problems that we face. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u62	And the final question is, dispute Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u63	Ivan Sporish, Peter Dusty Block, 15th District, Winnitzkin. Of course, ratification is important enough, and this bill must be accepted. Integration, global society, joint projects are really important, but the only thing I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Oksano. You've very well confirmed the committee's work in this direction, but how do you think it prevented an earlier accession to the EPAS? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u64	No, it's a procedure. There was a convention, I was talking about it, a convention was signed. The agreement for development, cooperation and interaction and participation in joint European projects was further expanded. This procedure has led us to this day, and I would like us to show a good result by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u65	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs. Oksana. Now, colleagues, speak from groups and factions. Who intends to participate in the discussion of groups and factions, please record. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich of the "Will of the People" Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u66	People's Will Group, Sergey Shahov, political force "Our End". Respectful colleagues certainly need to support this program and join in. Because we need to develop sports in our country today. Because of today’s transfer to the scene, everything is in a disgraceful state. Wherever you go, our children, our Olympics, speak under other flags. Sports are not being developed today, 83 sports schools closed down. 30,000 children were virtually abandoned. Let me give you an example. I come to the city of Severodonetsk, practically my district, and I come to the stadium, and the stadium is ruined. It says, "Dangerous zone." All the rostrums are broken. I come to any city today -- practically all sports schools are closed, the pools are closed. There's no sport. In the city, too, Severodonetsk was destroyed today by a team called Severodonchanka, who held first place in volleyball. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this program and vote for it. We are few today, but we have the right to unite and support Ukrainian children today, the Ukrainian sport. Thank you. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u67	From the opposition block, Ljovcken Julia Volodymyrna. From. Nobody, right? Okay. From the Radical Party of Silantiev Denis Olegovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u68	Dennis Silantiev, faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. Today, Ukrainian athletes are not alone in shaping Ukraine’s positive image in Europe and the world. It is thanks to the victories of Ukrainian athletes that Ukraine is known, counted and respected. But, you know, there's not enough enthusiasm. We need to create conditions for our athletes to stay in Ukraine, in order for them to continue to choose prizes, in order for them to continue to choose victories for Ukraine, in order to set an example for children who start to engage in sports that shape their life. Thus, thanks to the numerous demands and performances of the Radical Party from this rostrum since 2019, we have made sure that funds are made available to build sports complexes in Ukraine. This is one of the victories, starting with Ukraine's independence. But in order for us to move and be in the vanguard of this international sports movement, we must not stand still, we must constantly improve. And this agreement will allow for the protection of rights and athletes, for the protection of the rights of trainers, for the protection of the rights of sports organizations that are now on the verge of survival. Not by helping, let's say, the government, but by their enthusiasm, by their persistence, they're still moving forward, they're still trying to win, and they're engaging our young people in sports. Today, when we have child crime, we have different diseases, it's a very important agreement, and it's a very important direction for creating conditions and for developing physical culture and sports in Ukraine, and for improving those existing sports clubs that already exist. sports that existing sports movement there is today. So the Radical Party faction will support this bill, support this agreement, and call upon the honourable fellow MPs to come to the Supreme Council Hall and also vote, and support our athletes, allow our state to continue to remain the country that stands today in the vanguard and in the first place in the international and global sport that Ukraine is now in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block, Ivan Rybak. Then. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u70	Ivan Ribak, Faction of Peter Prashenko, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Viacheslav Antonyuk, Alexander Vishnyak, Stepan Grekov, Tetjana Dorokhov, Emil Ibrahimov, Vadim Klim and such a famous light-athlete sportsman as John Hesco, the world champion is the name of the best athletes in the region of Cherniewec. And those names would be much more if the state thought more and more about financing the development of sport in Ukraine. We urge us to vote and support this decision because it depends on a lot of things, depending on the standards for the development of Ukrainian sport for future periods. Much has been done today, thanks to the national deputies present. Because in the 2018 and 2019 budgets, there are significant costs for the creation of football fields in Ukraine, and for the construction of football fields. through local self-governance, co-financing with local self-governance. Also in 2019, considerable funds were put in place for the construction of sports pools. And in the Chernobyl area, in particular, we've already started this work in 2018, and soon we'll be restoring the reconstructed swimming pool in the village of Šipinci in the Kitzman district. The construction plan is for such a large swimming pool in the Visnitsky region. I know that our colleagues have also started this important work, with the support of the government, through the allocation of subsidies for local infrastructure development by local self-government authorities in other areas in Ukraine. Today, we need funds for education and preschool education to buy equipment and inventory. Because it's not a secret that in many schools, schools of our state, not that inventory and equipment are missing, but that there is no room at all for children to engage in sports. So, honourable colleagues, thinking about the future, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this draft decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Please welcome me from the People's Front. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we are now considering an extremely important bill for our sport. It is not a secret that our athletes often suffer from the fact that Ukrainian sports organizations, our ministry, do not have enough mechanisms to influence events in the sports world. Ukraine’s expansion or Ukraine’s accession to this international agreement is important. It's enough to mention that EPAS are members of countries that are not members of the Council of Europe: this and Belarus, this is Israel, this is Morocco. And it is surprising that Ukraine is not yet a member of this organization today. What does this give Ukraine? In addition to the 20,000 euros per year of membership contributions, this allows Ukraine to join other financial sources that Ukraine can obtain as a result of participating in these projects. Our committee discussed this issue at its meeting, and the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism supported the bill at its meeting. And the People's Front faction also supports this bill. We appeal to all colleagues of all factions and non-fractionals to support it independently of your political preferences, because these are Ukraine's interests in the international arena. All athletes who take part and honor the Ukrainian flag and sound the Ukrainian anthem will be grateful for that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, I want to address groups and factions. Did all those desirous of groups and factions take the floor? Please, Mrs. Romanova from Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u74	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, the Self-Help Association always supports physical culture and mass sports. But what we want to say is that right now we're only discussing membership in a European queue organization. Ukraine is a member of many international organizations, and this is a positive one. But it's really not enough to be a member of an organization, because, according to the deputy minister, we are now discussing that if we vote for this decision, Ukraine will be given a chance to participate in a number of seminars, to get recommendations that are very important in sports. But it is also important that the executive, legislative authority implement these recommendations. Because if we do analogies from Ukraine's membership in such an authoritative organization as the World Tourism Organization, we also pay out of the budget each year, in fact from the pockets of taxpayers, membership fees, and every year our officials travel on trips, participate in numerous round tables. But according to the recommendations of these international organizations, very wise recommendations, Ukraine does not. I analyzed how many of those recommendations of the World Tourism Organization of Ukraine have been implemented, and we have hardly implemented any. On the contrary, if the World Tourism Organization recommends that Ukraine create a central body of tourism policy, Ukraine does not create one. The World Tourism Organization recommends that Ukraine reduce the cost of a Ukrainian visa — instead, the Ukrainian visa of January 1, 2019 — by 560 dollars. Moreover, Ukraine removed from January 1, 19th, such an important instrument for liberalizing entry into Ukraine as the visa on arrival that we see in most civilized countries. And there are many other examples. That's why the Self-Help Union will support this decision. But we're asking that taxpayers' money be used effectively to make sure that Ukraine is a member of some organization not only for a branch, but for those seminars that officials go to for the same taxpayers' money, that these recommendations are implemented for Ukraine, and that the government takes them into account constantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u75	Thank you. My colleagues, if I understand correctly, all the groups and factions have spoken, they've all taken the floor. Now we have 15 minutes for the national deputies of Ukraine. I'm asking you to sign up for this. And I'm addressing those people's deputies who are now in the towers, that in 15 minutes we're going to go to the vote on this bill. Please, National Deputy Krivenko will take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u76	Victor Krivenko, National Movement of Ukraine. Good afternoon, everyone! Of course, the issue of sports has many dimensions for the People’s Movement of Ukraine. Sports is primarily about raising a real Ukrainian, a fighter, because a kid who's been playing sports since the first few years, he's playing by the rules, he's respecting the rules, he's honoring the judiciary honestly, and then he's gonna respect the court that's in adult life. She respects her opponent, and she even loses and gets up and fights again. So it is very important to involve all children in sports. You have to re-enact cities in basketball, in tennis, in volleyball, in football. Every city, every village, has to have children playing sports, because it's really raising a Ukrainian who's self-sufficient, a Ukrainian who's complex and whole. The second dimension is the protection of the homeland. Of course, a man who engages in sports will be able at any moment to stand up for the defense of our state, but with such an enemy, we must have a healthy nation, a nation that has really endured physically. The third dimension is health. We will significantly reduce the funding of the Ministry of Health, finance the treatment of all diseases, from cardiovascular to other diseases, if the nation is sporting. The fourth dimension is the prestige of the state when the flag rises abroad, one of the few cases is when our athletes win. And we need to reform our field of sport. Since 2014, proposals have been made, and my colleague, Paul Kishkar, has been passing bills on the reform of the sport management system to finally stop the Ministry of Sport from buying slides, identifying who is swimming in our teams. And we see what kind of fiasco we got in London when in the dam we didn't define the federation, we defined the ministerial officials, we didn't get the medal. So they don't leave this function of buying that they only need for one -- to steal money -- and they put it all on the Federation. They say the federations aren't ready, they're not ready yet. How else will they mature when we have an official deciding, instead of profile experts, who to buy? And our demand for money to go after a child is that people have children in many sections that are not communal, state-owned, from chess to dance, and they don't get anything, and they also pay taxes. That is why we demand a comprehensive reform of sport, and we will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u77	Thank you. Please welcome the People’s Deputy of Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u78	Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. My dear colleagues, of course, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this decision, because it is complex, systematic, it allows today a significant contribution to the development of Ukrainian sports, physical culture itself. First of all, because it allows and helps us to enter the system of international standards, international relations, international programmes, which will certainly contribute to the development of both individual areas of Ukrainian sport and in general. We have potential, but I want to remind you today to focus on another. The active, existing system of ours in Ukraine, the development system, especially children's, youth sports, which has been done since the 1980s, 1990s, and which has resulted in very decent performances, performances by our athletes and within the country, in the international arena, which has proved its effectiveness and effectiveness accordingly. So when did it start being destroyed, starting with work, the functioning of children's sports schools, clubs at the place of residence, the activities of physical societies, starting with Republican, district, district and so on, what are we offering instead? If the new efficient system is to be shown and proven, including by supporting it with decent funding, and what we have today is a separate indicator of individual athletes with their trainers, and, of course, today they need to be thanked and supported. But I would like to draw the attention of the heads of the ministry to one other side of the business. Today you've spoken, and, in principle, the right thing is that there are, and there are, state programs to strengthen the base, the material base, to create conditions for training athletes, including a large programme to create football pitches and fields in Ukraine. But you show and prove that it's the state that creates this, not individual individuals. Today, national MPs are traveling around areas claiming that they have made tens of millions of dollars — their credit for opening up football fields. So if you're a state, tell them that it's a state and that it's a collective job, not a pianist of individual MPs, and don't play games with them, because maybe how these football fields are going to open up so there's no questions, talk about an effective state program. In general, it's a decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Andrew Teteruk takes the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u80	Madam Chairman, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, the distinguished Ukrainian people, the issue of the development of Ukrainian sport, I think it was one of the issues that we should have done yesterday and not put it off for tomorrow. Why? Because it is no less important than strengthening the security sector, strengthening the health sector, or other critical issues for the development of the Ukrainian nation. We suffer, we love, we pride ourselves on our professional athletes who choose gold, silver or bronze at all international competitions. And the world of sports is filled with Ukrainian names of prominent athletes from the Klick brothers, Vasil Lomachenko, Elina Svetolina, and many of our other outstanding athletes. And including the courage of our Paralympics, we feel proud of the Ukrainian nation’s dignity of representing ourselves and showing all the potential we have. At the same time, in our country's desire to join Europe, we should remember that we are cutting ourselves off from the Russian Federation -- the capital of meldonism and dishonor, the use by athletes of all kinds of doping and the dishonest use of sport for the sole purpose of winning at all costs. Therefore, the signing of agreements, the signing of such agreements. And the adoption of drafts brings our country closer to transparent, democratic, fair, fair rules for the use of sport in order to win the spirit, win the dignity, win the desire for athletes to show what they're capable of. And besides professional sports, it is certainly vital to develop sports for the average citizens, the unprofessional sport of so - called sports. And here, of course, I'm talking to all the parents who have kids: let the kids know what they like better: handball, volleyball, easy athletics -- all that would make them engage in sports on a regular basis. All of this will allow us to demonstrate the talents of our small Ukrainians, and we could be proud of the increasing number of our small Ukrainians who would travel the world, learn to win and feel the thirst for victory that adult athletes have. So, of course, the People's Front faction will now vote in favour of this bill. He's calling everybody. I personally urge all the national MPs to return to the half-empty session room and give important votes, of course, for this bill to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u81	Please finish 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u82	In order for Ukraine to join all European organizations and to acquire the necessary membership and sense that we are a European country and are in pain for honest rules of sport. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u83	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Please, Vitaly Kurilo invites you to the presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u84	Honourable Ukrainian national MPs certainly need to be supported. I note that it is aimed at entering Ukraine into one of the international sports agreements. So I would just like to stop at sports international activities. Yes, Ukraine has quite a lot of achievements in sports, in professional sports in the international arena, and we see it every day, the victories of our tennis players, tennis players, we see our skiers working, boxers, other sports. At the same time, I think we should pay much more attention to Ukraine’s participation in various international organizations. Participation in various international organizations, in the federations of European and international, so that our representatives will have decent seats there, take places in the management of these organizations, I think will have a positive impact on the development of national sport, and on the achievement of the corresponding results, and on the achievement of the results of what is called fair results, because this is very and very important. In my opinion, it is necessary for our ministry, the relevant International Olympic Committee, to give serious attention also to the fight against doping and to increase the status of our anti-doping laboratory, which is in Ukraine, a flawed laboratory, and to give it full status as a VADA so that we don't drive all these trials abroad and overpaid huge amounts of money and could invest that money in the development of different kinds of sports. So I urge all the deputies present to support the relevant bill and to support the whole sport and to support our participation, Ukraine, in various international sports organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u85	Thank you. And please welcome the National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u86	Paul Kishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, by supporting the previous speaker on our laboratory’s compliance with the principles and requirements of VADA, I believe that this is one of the key issues for the Ministry’s activities. And we need to direct our efforts there, but that part of the lab equipment, I said, is now in Migir. We need to find out which equipment is suitable, and we can continue to use it to equip our laboratory according to the requirements of VADA. And to go through a very complicated certification procedure, it's going to take three to five years, everything's clear, but it's definitely one of the Ministry's performance indicators. This is the red flag that you should work on and show that you can be an effective ministry. It's a decision about the project itself. Of course, it needs to be supported. This is one of the few proper steps of the ministry in order to intensify our international cooperation in various international organizations, including the development of the sports sector. We'll be supportive. Please join us all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u87	Thank you, colleagues. We've got one last speech left from the deputies right now. People's MP Melniczuk. National deputy Shahov. National MP Rudik. National deputy Shahov, please come to the floor. And I was approached by colleagues from the Opposition Block who were unable to perform during the recording of groups and factions. Then three minutes, please, Mrs. Queen. Please, Mr. Shahov now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u88	Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End. Dear colleagues, I once again urge you to gather together in one piece. Not enough, there are not enough national deputies in this room today. But we have to support the sport. Sports is the power, it's the health of the nation. Sport is the building up of our state, it's young people that we need to support today. Look what's happening today: a million 700,000 displaced persons, every family has a child! Not only do they want to go to school, but they want to do sports to get their attention. Today at every turn, look at every bush you look at – the syringes are full! Where you don't look, there are websites on all the walls where you buy drugs! Alcoholism Is Developing in the State! Tuberculosis, various diseases. Look what is happening today with the plague on the rim! This is because our children today do not engage in sports. So I urge as a human being, as a father, as a national MP to vote and support this program of joining all international even communities, to urge everyone to engage in sports today in our state. We must have our normal sports nation to defeat the enemy. Thank you. Let us unite, unite, vote. Sergey Shahov, the political power of Our End.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Please welcome Natalia Královska from the Opposition Block. Colleagues, I very much ask you to return to the session room, because in three minutes we're going to go to the vote. Mrs. Natalia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, this is certainly an important bill. But first of all today, we think we need to hear from the government how they see the protection of our young people today, the support of our young people. We need to understand that if they find money to contribute to international funds today, first of all, we need to find money today to count the cost of living. Because what family that receives a living minimum of 1 000 921 bracelets today is able to provide their child with a share in sports? Because today everything needs to be bought at its own expense. What family today will be able to provide for a child’s participation in various circuits and sections? Because it's almost all worth it today. Let's remember our childhood with you, when, despite being born in Kiev or in a small mining town in Red Light, where I was born, we had the opportunity to participate in different circles, different sports competitions. We had the opportunity to feel equal in spite of our place of birth. Today, a child born in Kiev, where parents are even more or less wealthy, they can provide for this child's participation in sports. If a child is born in a small town where a mother is a teacher and a father is a miner, this child will no longer be able to enjoy sports. And that's why I think today is one of the most important missions of the ministry to ensure that children can participate in sports, is to ensure our young people have a healthy lifestyle. Ratifying conventions is good, but it is not really the first decision that the Ukrainian Parliament should make in the new year. So we suggest that the government hear about the social situation in the country, and first of all, before the collapse in the communal sphere that they've led the country to today's debt of housing services, with the impossibility of people to pay these unrealistic gas prices today. We demand that this issue be considered widely and that we do everything we can to lower the price of gas. And the second question that we're asking the government today is the review of social standards for 2019, the minimum wage and the minimum wage, and the minimum pension. This will help our families today to give birth, raise, and protect their children and the elderly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to return to the National MPs' session room. We're about to have a vote. I see everyone's not back in the session room yet. Will there be any objection if we give the floor to the national MP Rudik? Is there any objection? Which is in our list of records, but the turn didn't come. Please, Mr. Ruddick. Colleagues, please return to the session room. Please, Mr. Ruddick.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, what is Ukraine's agreement that we intend to join if there are 226 votes in the hall, what, unfortunately, do I very much doubt? These are the best practices of the Council of Europe and its member countries and their implementation in Ukraine. What today's Ukrainian sport is, perhaps, is known by everyone, especially the Marjorie MPs, who are constantly monitoring the state of physical culture and sport within specific locations: villages, villages, district centres -- where unfortunately, the situation is critical. What enables us to join the covenant? Exchange of best practices. Ukraine joined the third in the world since Norway and Portugal in the Council of Europe Convention, which legitimizes this agreement back in the 14th year. We have in our budget the cost of this because we have to pay them every year, in our 19th-year budget the estimated amount of 17, if I'm not mistaken, thousands of 836 euros for their implementation. The more countries in the world join it, the less the contributions will be. But we can see that there are no people in the room. I don't know how, from a formal point of view, to solve these problems, I would recommend that we talk and move the vote to tomorrow. Because I don't think there's gonna be 226 votes. And I'd like to ask the chairman. There's no room. Put the maximum on the rating vote to confirm my concerns, and not just mine, about the absence of deputies in the hall and put to a vote on Thursday. I think it's going to be right, rational. And let those who have not come be to them. Well, I'll put three dots. Let them get out, let them have it, let them have it. and other epithets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, there is no way in the Presidium to postpone the vote to another day. Therefore, the Presidium refers primarily to factions’ leaders with the request to invite deputies to the session room. And we ask the MPs themselves to return from the towers to the polls. The deputy minister of profile asks 2 minutes to sum up our discussion, and we move on to the vote. Please, Mr. Deputy. No, from where I'm standing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions and for the lively discussion in our Hall. I would like to highlight a few points and draw your attention to the fact that this extended partial agreement on sport is a platform for intergovernmental cooperation in the field of sport between the government authorities of the member states of the Council of Europe and international organizations. Ukraine should actively defend its national interests in international organizations, global and regional, as in Europe. For example, the Russian Federation is a member of the Extended Partial Agreement (EPAS). And we have to enter into this agreement to effectively defend our interests there to fight the drug to fight the influence of the Russian Federation. In addition, I would like to point out that this Council of Europe Convention is working actively with such important committees as the Standing Committee of the European Convention on Violence and Irregular Conduct by Spectators during Sports Action and in particular football matches, with the Monitoring Group of the Anti-Doping Convention, which is an important, special European committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency (KAHAMA). Because you know that the drug problem is very serious and important, and it needs to be tackled actively. And that's why our role: the more our influence will be there, the more the protection of Ukraine's foreign political sports interests in both Europe and the world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u95	Thank you. So, colleagues, now the final word from the reporter is "Bilozoz Oksana." And in two minutes, we're going to vote. I ask the heads of factions to see who is not here and to invite them into the hall. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take jobs. And the secretariat of the Supreme Council, I ask you to inform the deputies who are in the towers, that in two minutes we will move on to the decision-making process. Please, Mrs. Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u96	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, I don't think that any of us, and especially those from the rostrum and the place, have any doubt that signing this law is extremely important to Ukraine and that it opens up incredible possibilities. I'll tell you, I've calculated that if each of us takes up our jobs and every one of us in the room press a button, we'll have the right result. And I call for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u97	Thank you. So, colleagues, let's move on to making a decision. I'm asking everyone on the bed to go back to their jobs. This ratification unites the entire hall, and during the performances all factions supported the ratification. It is now important to maximize our mobility so that we can make a positive decision. Colleagues, look who's gone, invite us to the hall, call who's leading the debate, who's giving the briefings, let everybody in the hall. Take up your jobs, colleagues. So let's move on to making a decision. And I'm voting on the draft law on Ukraine's accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on Sport (No. 0205) on the Committee's recommendation as a whole. Please vote, please support. Vote, colleagues, support, support. [[11:51:39]] For 190 Not all of them have arrived, they're still coming to the colleagues' room. Let me put it on return. Please come into the hall, colleagues. I'll give you 30 seconds to get everyone to the hall and take up jobs. Colleagues, please be in the workplace during the vote. I'll call the factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 73, People's Front – 44, Opposition Block – 15, Self-Help – 14, Radical Party – 10, Father's Party – 3, Will of the People – 1, Rebirth Party – 6, non-fractional – 24. Please come into the hall. By columns, by columns the deputies enter the hall, the chair will soon have to be delivered. So, colleagues, I'm betting on a return. I would like to support the proposal to return to the draft Law on Ukraine’s Accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on Sport (No. 0205). We'll just wait a second. Please support the return to draft Law 0205. Please vote and support. Vote. We vote, we support colleagues. [[11:53:56]] For-187 Even less. Fellows, I'll put you back on the line. But, I see, voices have become even less. One faction has moved away from support, and I don't know why. You'll support it, won't you? Guys, I'm gonna put you back in. The discussion is over, colleagues, and. So take up your jobs, come into the hall. Colleagues! I would like to point out that if there are no votes to return now, the bill will have to be rejected. Please, I propose to return to the draft Act on Ukraine's accession to the Extended Partial Agreement on Sport (0205). And I ask everyone to support and vote. We're backing it up. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:55:25]] For-183 I'm sorry. Let's see the factions. Sadly, one faction ceased to uphold the law at some stage. I don't understand why, Mr. Yuri. I don't understand why. I can't start this discussion right now. So, colleagues, I put three times on my way back. Unfortunately, not enough voices. I hope that the committee will adopt the draft law and we can support it in the coming weeks of the next session. Unfortunately, after the first vote, one faction changed its vote position and this prevented us from going out for a positive vote of 226. And that's why I'm calling Law 0205 a no. Please move the committee and the government so that we can consider and accept it at the next meeting and get a positive vote. My colleagues, I want to remind you that after the break, we will move on to the draft Social Services Act. The bill, which unites the hall, has more than 500 rights. Over 500 rights, but I'm sure we can talk about them today, and tomorrow morning we can make a decision in the hall. So after the break, the draft Social Services Act (4607) was adopted. I'm asking the reporter for Maxim Burbak to be in the hall, all the right-wing authors to prepare for the discussion. And now I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, I ask everyone to come into the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our not simple but important work for the country. There's work to be done in the hall. I emphasize, now we have a law that has 500 rights, 500 rights. Any other day, we'll have to look at it in the south. That's too much. And now we have a chance, the right-wing authors here, on the spot, we have a chance to pass them by in 10 to 15 minutes to accept it tomorrow. Any other day, it'll take too long. So I invite the authors to work actively. And I'm announcing the move to the draft Social Services Act (4607). This is the second reading. The bill has 560 rights, and today we have a chance and an opportunity to consider all the rights to go to decision-making tomorrow. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Veterans and Persons with Disabilities, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u99	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading of the Ukrainian Social Services Act. I'd like to remind you of the basics of this bill. Social services will be provided to individuals who are sensitive to the population and who are in difficult circumstances. Social services are provided only by assessing the individual’s individual needs. The defined basic social services, guaranteed by local administrations, city council executives, cities of regional importance, and executive bodies of the united communities, will be defined in the bill. Social services will be provided on a professional basis. On a non-professional basis, that is, without the education and observance of State standards, social services can be given only to a natural person, to members of their families who live together, who live together in a shared household, and who have mutual rights and responsibilities. The term “social services system” has been introduced, which includes: authorized bodies, social services providers, recipients of social services, professional associations of social services providers, integration of social services providers, and integration of recipients of social services. Volunteers may be involved in this work. Every social service will have its own social standard, its own standard, which is approved by the cosmopolitans. And social services will be provided to meet the standard. Social services are provided at the expense of budgetary resources, i.e. free of charge to all categories of persons – social services for information, counselling, shelter, representation of interests, hard translation, typhosurdo-translation, and social services that provide emergency, i.e. crisis. Other categories of persons will also receive social services on a partial basis, if income of between 2,000 and 994 bracelets of up to 5,000 888 bracelets is from two to four subsistence minimums for the relevant category of persons and for full payment of income of over 5,000 988, which is the same as four subsistence minimums. A register of social services is envisaged. And the law will take effect on the day following its publication and enter into force on January 1st, 20th. I mean, there's plenty of time in the hands of the Minsocpolytics to conduct all the normative and sub-legislative acts in accordance with the newly adopted law. May I continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u100	Please add an extra minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u101	According to article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the second reading of the bill received 558 proposals, of which 120 were rejected, the other 438 were considered in whole or in part. I would like to point out that all the proposals that have come to the committee have been carefully analysed and processed, including with representatives of social organizations who are doing their work in the field of social services. At a meeting of the Committee on December 19, 2018, a decision was taken to approve the comparative table in Bill 4607, prepared for consideration in second reading, and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's decision. At the same time, with a view to taking into account the comments made to the bill by the Chief Legal Authority, I request that the main committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority, be given appropriate technical and legal remedies for the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, please join us all actively in our work to consider the rights so that we can go to a successful vote, because this bill is very much needed. And I think there should be no political preference here, we should all vote for a bill that regulates such an important area as the provision of social services. Mr. Head, I am very grateful that you agreed to the committee's proposal that our bill, which we discussed in the second reading at the December committee meeting, is being considered in the hall today. Thank you very much. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u102	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'm going to call those adjustments that are rejected. When one of the right-wing authors wants to bet on confirmation by way of proof. Just let me know which one of those lines. I'm just going to call them rejected. Accordingly, the authors who insist will give me a sign. Here we go. 2nd. He insists. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u103	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. My amendment concerns that we begin this very important legislative initiative in order to properly define, in fact, the definition in this legislative act, namely with regard to those individuals, people, Ukrainian citizens who should receive appropriate social assistance, social services. My amendment is about giving us more detailed instructions as to who. The final result is that it is given to individuals through a defiscat to families and so on. I'm still going to leave the "citizens, other people" and then to the families. Because just "persons" can be individuals both physically and legally, so at the beginning of the law itself is uncertainty. So please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u104	Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u105	Dear colleague, thank you for the faction of the People's Front has been actively involved in the drafting and drafting of this bill for the second reading. To your attention, I would like to say that the position of the committee is that social services are provided to individuals and families and, separately, article 5 provides that the law extends to Ukrainian citizens and stateless persons who are legally resident or resident in Ukraine, that is, we have settled the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u106	Do you insist on voting? 5th. Don't insist. 7th. Don't insist. 16th? Don't insist, 16th. 25th. Don't insist. 27th. Don't insist. 35th. Roman? Don't insist. 45th? 45, please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 45 amendment, it applied to our proposal for an initial assessment of the needs of the recipient of social services. And in principle, we had another 22 amendments that suggested that a comprehensive assessment should be made in accordance with these needs of social services. What is the idea? The idea is that the effectiveness of providing any social service to a person is first and foremost determined by how precisely we have assessed the need and how this need can be met. That's why we proposed an initial evaluation of its definition. But somehow, unfortunately, the committee didn't listen. In this regard, I fear that the provision of social services in the absence of such assessments can simply lead to very often inefficient use, including public resources. And the person who needs this social service doesn't get the guarantees and the real help he needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u108	Please, Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u109	Thank you for your offer. But the committee decided that it was appropriate not to share the assessment of primary and secondary needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u110	Do they insist on voting? No, right? Okay. 53rd. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u111	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. We're going back to the definition, in this case the definition of social services, the definition itself. And again, I'd still like my amendment to be taken into account, because I propose to make a definition of what they can't actually do, in an active paper they can't do on their own under the circumstances of life and so continue to do some activity there, right? I'm proposing that we do select, not completely alone, but "partly or completely unable or unable to do so." So a little bit more detail so that we can work in more detail in the definition of this legislative act. So that we don't get some kind of "dead" norm that can't be applied and applied more broadly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. But the committee decided not to make such a division. Because they think it's technically confusing to make a decision. For then they will have doubts: in part, in full. We decided not to have such a division. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u113	Do you insist on voting? So 67th? Don't insist. Seventy-two? Don't insist. 74th? Don't insist. 77th? Don't insist. 81st? Don't insist. 82nd? Don't insist. 94th? Don't insist. 96? Don't insist. 139th. 122nd. Please, Olena Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The table says it's essentially taken into account, but in fact, if we look at the text, it doesn't exactly fit the reality. I'm going to remind you that we're now on Article 7, this is "The Confidentiality of Information on Receipts and Social Services". And given that this is a very sensitive question, we were just trying legally to clarify that any distribution of information that contains a confidential part should take place solely according to the statement. Appropriately, this will be an appropriate documentary confirmation that a person has accepted such distribution. So I still ask 122 amendments to be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u115	Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u116	I'd like to report to the committee's position on why we believe that the amendment is essentially taken into account. Because article 6 of the bill provides that the use of information is carried out in accordance with the law on information and the protection of personal data. And it provides that an appropriate statement is needed. But if you'd like to bet on confirmation, please. The committee believes that this amendment is essentially taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u117	Do you insist on voting? Yes. 122 revisions. The committee considers it to be a matter of fact. The author insists on taking it fully into account. So I would like to make a suggestion: Who, in order to take full account of Amendment 122 of Semimenach and Sotnik, please vote. [[12:48:37]] For-47 The decision is not taken. 130th. Don't insist. 133rd. Don't insist. 135th. Don't insist. 137th. Don't insist. 139th. Don't insist. 147th. Don't insist. The 151st. Don't insist. 152nd. 152nd? Don't insist. 160th. Don't insist. 161. Don't insist. 164th. 165th. 166th. 167th. 169 Edit Irina Heratchenko. And I'm handing her the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor. Deputy Head of the Profit Committee. In fact, my colleague Mrs. Maria Ionova and I have tabled a number of amendments to the bill that we are currently considering, and we want to thank the committee that most of them have been taken into account. But, at the same time, we insist that we replace it correctly with amendment 169. It's just a technical amendment. We need to replace it here with a head. Please put to the vote. I mean, it's technical, but I'm asking you to vote. Please comment, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u119	Mrs. Irina, I am very grateful that you have been actively involved in drafting this bill for your second reading. But it's not one of your lines, and we think it's a technical readjustment. And we decided that the term "head" is generally used in codes and does not correspond to the substance of a document such as the law. That's why we didn't count this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u120	Thank you for your clarification. Mrs. Jonah and I will not then insist that this technical amendment be taken into account. But with your permission, I'm going to go back to the 7th amendment, and that's also Mrs. Jonah's and mine, and we're asking you to take the same thing into account for the next amendment. Paragraph 2 of article 1 of the project will be edited as follows: "The conduct of the case is a way of organizing the provision of social services to the recipient by which a specialist, social worker, social worker or group of such specialists, defined by the provider of social services, assess the needs, plan, organize, coordinate and coordinate the provision of social services, monitor and assess the effectiveness of the services provided." It seems to us that the introduction of the second paragraph of article 1 very clearly defines the standards that social workers and their functions should do. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u121	Thank you. The committee rejected this amendment because the definition of the term "conditional conduct" in article 1 is excluded, and the "order of conduct" is defined in article 18 of this law, that is to say in another article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u122	A representative of the committee says that this is our amendment in another article that clearly defines tasks, functions, and social workers. But Mrs. Mary and I are still asking you to put this amendment to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:53:03]] For-43 Thank you to all colleagues who have supported our amendment. But most halls agree with the committee's decision that this should still be recorded in other novels of the bill that we are considering. We haven't reached her yet, because we've come back to my amendments. We're on the 7th, on the 7th. The next amendment is 67. This is the amendment of Irina Heratchenko and Mary Ionova. And so this amendment also suggests that we delete paragraph eighteen of this law, because we think it is inappropriate. Unfortunately, the committee rejected our offer. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u123	The committee has decided that it is still necessary to define this term as "supervision."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u124	Thank you for your clarification. At the same time, we insist on voting on this amendment. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 67 amendments. [[12:54:21]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. The next is 82 amendments, national deputies Heratchenko, Jonova. We suggest that the second paragraph of article 3 should be worded as "respect for human rights, protection of children's rights" - stressing that social workers should pay particular attention to the protection of a particular category of the population - are children. Unfortunately, the committee did not support this novel. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u125	Thank you. We understand what you're trying to predict with this. But the committee nevertheless agreed on the proposal that we should not overload every bill that is provided for by other legislation. The protection of rights is governed by other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u126	Please vote, however, the colleagues will decide on this amendment. 67th. I'd like to make a statement. 82nd, 82nd. I'd like to make a statement, colleagues. [[12:55:29]] For-44 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 160, national deputy Sisoyenko. Don't insist. And now 173 amendments, National Deputy Sotnik. She was considered essentially, but Mrs. Sotnik asks for her word. Please, Mrs. Helena, 173rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u127	Thank you for the opportunity, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. This amendment actually applied to the social services system, and me and Deputy Semimenah wanted to make it clear that, first of all, these sectors are made up of state, municipal and private. Also, distribute state and municipal institutions to ensure that there is a clear understanding of this structure. The committee decided to formulate it a little differently. If you don't mind, I'd just like to ask the committee representative to comment, which is why you've decided to put it in a different format. Because, in fact, for today's day, the system, according to your language, is slightly different from the proposal offered by Deputy Semimenah. I don't insist on voting, but I want to understand the logic of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u128	We believe that your rights have been taken into account essentially in article 13, which stipulates that social services providers belong to public, municipal, and non-state sectors. And then all of this, we give the right of the cosmopolitans to regulate the whole system by means of regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u129	Have you, Your Honor, been satisfied with the explanation of the committee's representative? Fifty-fifty. But we thank you for this communication regarding article 173. i.e. 173 amendments. Next amendment. And Mrs. Helen doesn't insist on voting. 175 amendment is Mrs. Ionova and Irina Heratschenko's amendment. In fact, in this amendment, we propose to set out very clearly the social services system that consists of such subjects. In our view, it should be worded: "Social service providers, social services providers and authorized bodies in the field of social services." Unfortunately, the committee did not support this amendment, so please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. We worked on this bill for a year and a half. Public organizations were involved, insisting that social services could be integrated into the social services system. Well, we went to support public organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u131	Thank you for your clarification, dear colleague. And yet I'm asking the hall to determine 175 amendments. Please be sure, Mrs. Ionova and I insist on our formulation. [[12:58:52]] For-42 The correction is being rejected. 192 amendment, national deputy of Sotnik and Semenich. 192 revisions. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u132	Thank you very much. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. 192 The amendment refers to a change in the name of article 13. What's proposed is "authorized organs of the social services system," in fact. And yet we have suggested that this be clearly defined by the "authorization of the central executive authorities", which will actually ensure the formation of public policy in the social services sector, because the substance of the article is actually responsible, more specifically, not responsible, and it forms the authorization of these organs. Well, frankly, I don't know the reasons why the committee rephrased exactly the way we now have it in the table, so I'm asking you to put it to a vote, because again, the content matches our name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u133	Thank you. Will you comment from the committee? No, it's not. Please, the National MP insists on voting. Amendment number 192, please identify yourself. [[13:00:24]] For-48 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 196. There's no insistence on a national MP. Amendment 197. A national MP does not insist. Amendment 198. Don't insist. There's been an emergency at 212th, right? People's MP for sale, please, Amendment 212.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u134	Dear Oksana Ivanovna, dear colleagues! I would like first of all to thank the members of the committee for taking into account the rights of mine that have been taken into account. That's one thing. But the other one. I ask the Association of Cities of Ukraine to make 212 amendments for confirmation, which sets out the requirements for the number of social workers in local self-government. So this requirement is set, well, up to 10,000 -- one percent, up to a thousand employees. The population population is at a different rate. This standard, which is in this 212 amendment, increases the cost of local self-governance by 1.5 billion dollars, with no qualifications, no grading, depending on how densely populated or how dense the population is. So I ask you not to support this amendment and put it on the stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Will there be a comment from the committee? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u136	Yes. These were discussions on a committee with a representative of the Association of Ukrainian Cities. He stood up for the position of the association. They thought so. Well, his position was that it's an extra charge on the budget. We supported the position of the cosmopolitans, because it's about more people being able to use social services. This time. Secondly, after starting the process of decentralization and the transfer of budgetary powers and additional revenues to local budgets, it's not so much for local self-government that they don't do what they have to do: take care of socially vulnerable populations. So we supported the position of the Ministry of Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u137	Thank you. The national MP insists on voting. Please change number 212 for confirmation. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[13:03:16]] For-42 The decision is not taken. Next is Amendment 223. There's no insistence on a national MP. Next is Amendment 233. National MP. Semenha, Captain, are you insisting? No, it's not. Okay. 234. No, it's not. 236. Is the Anointed People's Deputy not insisting? So our next amendment is number 246. Please, the Royal People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I insist that a minimum guarantee be established at the level of the law for providers of social workers who provide for compensation payments no less than a subsistence minimum for working persons without family income. And now we've had talks with the Ministry of Social Policy, and I've been assured that this proposal will be taken into account, and then we'll protect the people who will provide services, get compensation for it. And I also want to say that a great deal of work has been done in drafting this bill, but our main goal is not to aggravate the conditions and services that are now being provided in the social sphere. Because we often get more broken when they start reforming, the better they do, so this bill still needs to be fully developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u139	Please explain to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u140	Thank you. In my speech, I noted that before the vote we were still working on, before technical legal remedies were taken into account, I know that there were negotiations from the University of Minnesota that agreed to your drafting of the bill, and the committee decided to take the position of the University of Minnesota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u141	Thank you. I'm asking you to determine 246 amendments to Mrs. Queen's. [[13:06:13]] For-30 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, I ask you to return to the 198th Amendment. I'm sorry, we didn't notice, this is our amendment with Mrs. Mary Ionova, and this amendment we propose to delete the sixth paragraph of Part One of Article 13. And this is about the approval of state standards for social services. Unfortunately, the committee did not support this position. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u142	Yes, yes, 198 revisions, and we're going to reject them, because that's the essential mandate that's scheduled for today, and it's going to save. and will be saved in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u143	Thank you. So we don't insist on voting, you leave this novel in another article of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u144	The law, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Your explanation pleases us. We're moving on, colleagues. Now we're at 246 amendments that Mrs. Queen has already presented and we're moving on. 249, Dovbenko. Don't insist. 260 revisions. They don't insist either. 263rd. Don't insist. 264 amendments were taken into account essentially by Captain and Semenach. Dear colleagues, don't you insist? No, it's not. 269 amendments, Semimenach and Sotnik. It was essentially taken into account. I'll be right back, Mrs. Natalia, to you. The 269, Semimenach and Sotnik, were included in part, but the authors insist on taking it into account. Please, Mr. Semenha, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u146	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Indeed, the committee has taken into account a number of our suggestions to improve the work of the social services register. At the same time, a number of important regulations regarding keeping this register were not taken into account, which were intended to guarantee the avoidance of the creation of another ineffective register. That is, we insisted and insisted that we take full account of our rights, especially those that contain: firstly, the requirements for software met national standards. This will ensure that the register is compatible with other information systems and networks. The record should be kept exclusively in the Ukrainian language. And third: there is also a need, a direct indication that the register is an object of state ownership, so that history with many other registers that work in Ukraine today is not repeated. In addition, the text does not provide for a procedure for inclusion in the register of social services providers that we insist on. This is the order of submission of documents, their terms of reference, a list of reasons for refusal, and so on. This will avoid abuse in the area of broadcasters in such a created register. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u147	Please explain from Mr. Maxim.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u148	Thank you. We believe and support the MINS that the order of registration, its filling, is defined by article 15. But all the other additional proposals you make can be included in the sub-legal acts that will be developed by the cospopolitans to put this bill into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u149	Thank you. And I want to speak to Mr. Semenha. Have you been satisfied with the committee’s explanation or are you voting? We're voting, aren't we? Please, Your Honor, identify yourself with 269 amendments. Please make up your mind. The authors insist that we take it fully into account. [[13:10:28]] For-40 The amendment remains in the version in which it was partially accepted by the committee. Please turn on Mrs. Queen's microphone. Mrs. Queen, you and the microphone have some problems, we don't hear you very well, so maybe a little closer to him. And what correction did you insist on making?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u150	Edit 265, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u151	Excuse me, 265?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u152	Yeah, 265th. Partially counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u154	I don't insist on her voting. But I also want to point out that unfortunately, you and I understand that this practice, it's going to be very difficult to introduce a social services institution. And it's very important for us to predict in the bill that there will be no manipulation in the provision of these services. And that's why we suggested that services be provided, and it was stipulated in the bill on the continued compliance with the terms of the social service contract. I would also like to refer to the head of the committee -- the rapporteur -- for us to return to the bill when we vote for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u155	246th? This is your amendment, too. So you want us to go back to her when we're done? Okay. Please, I beg your head. The representative, the deputy head of the committee of Mr. Maxim Burbak, is now to comment on 265 amendments, as requested by the People's Queen, who is not satisfied with the position of the committee on partial consideration of her novel. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u156	Thank you. I can tell you again that in my speech, I said that we went to our committee and the Chief Legal Authority to prepare for the vote a technical legal procedure. So your 246 proposal is going to be taken into account, because the M.E. agrees with it. With regard to the drafting of this amendment, 265th, I believe that the providers of social services and the responsibilities of the donors are determined by the time of the eighth article 13. But we all realize that, well, as social services providers can fail to comply with the requirements of current legislation, because in their work they have to do so, and every Ukrainian citizen has to comply with the requirements of current legislation. That's why we didn't think it was necessary to burden the bill with these definitions, and your amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u157	Thank you for your clarification. My colleagues, I would like to remind you that Mrs. Royal doesn't insist on voting for 265 amendments, she just asked the deputy head of the committee to hear the committee's position on the decision. about this amendment. The next amendment is 270, which was rejected by the national deputy Drozdik. I take it he doesn't insist that we vote her in the hall. 271st Amendment. The People’s Deputy of Anointed Ones. It was essentially taken into account. I understand that, no, you don't insist and the position of the committee to hear you don't insist either. At the same time, the National MP Anointed insists that his 284 amendment, which was rejected by the Committee, be heard in our session room. Please, Mr. Amazanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u158	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, with all due respect to our faction leader, who's a reporter on this issue, well, a pretty poorly prepared table for the second reading. And it's very difficult to figure out where this is and what article it is. But less importantly, I would like to point out that 284 amendments relate to the fact that it is the providers of these services that are involved in registering. And I don't get it at the moment from the table, how, anyway, given that my application was rejected, how did the issue of registering the providers of these social services get resolved, and where can I even see it? Because it's not clear here. I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u159	In fact, two statements were made now by our distinguished national MP. The first relates directly to his amendment, and he asks the reporter where we can look at the list of these services, which includes the articles and the novelty of the law that we are considering. And the second was a comment about the table. I understand that it's probably not the reporter, it's the secretariat or the committee or the Supreme Council. But the report will have to answer that question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u160	I'll start with a second one, a second one, but even a note. We'll do a thorough job at the secretariat of our committee. After our meeting, there will be a meeting of our committee, where a report on the Committee’s work for 2018 will be considered. Thank you for your observation. In the next job, we're going to remove it. As far as you're concerned. It was thought that the law proposed not to comply with the requirements of the law on the use of confidential information. And that's why we think that in providing social services and registering, we need to comply with the requirements of the law on the use of confidential information, and that's why all questions about the confidentiality of information are provided for in the Freedom of Information Act. So there you can read all the requirements for registering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u161	Thank you. I would like to remind colleagues and viewers that Mr. Amazanov does not insist on voting for his amendment, but he simply asked the report about where the bill that we are now adopting will be able to see this list of social services, and we have heard a thorough explanation of the representative of the committee. The following amendment is made by the people’s deputies Ionov and Heratchenko. I think we'll support our colleague Amazanov's observation that this amendment of ours is technical, it doesn't apply to the content of the bill. But it seems to us that our proposals are more qualifiedly literate about defining the definition of a bill where there is a "split" and where there is a "head." And here we suggested that we use the term "head" instead of "split." But the committee rejected this amendment. And we would also like to hear an explanation from the reporter. We don't insist on voting, but your logic is still divided into chapters and chapters of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u162	We consider and present the proposal of our secretariat and of the University of Minnesota, and of the General Legal Authority, that the term "head" is more about codes than about bill or law. That's why we think that this law should be rejected in general throughout the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u163	Thank you for your clarification. Maybe you're right, we'll take that into account in the preparation of our laws and amendments, your honorary colleague. And now 299 amendments to the Royal People's Deputy. I'm asking you to turn on her microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the main goal is not to do worse than it is now. So our task is to improve this bill so that people get more quality and qualified services. I think that the classification of social services should be more detailed, because when we make the classification in detail, we make the task very clear. Indeed, the government will then approve the final list of services that will be available. But in the bill itself, we have to make a clear point. And we have a very well-formed name in the active edition: it's the provision of psychological, socio-peduary and other services. And we suggested that the same list be added to the new edition. Thank you. We don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u165	I ask for clarification from the committee representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u166	Yes, indeed, the law does not contain a clear list of the social services you offered in your direction. But we think that the bill should only provide the services that are provided, divided into simple, complex, auxiliary, which are provided continuously, temporarily, extremely, and so forth. And the list, a clear list of social services, is defined in the social services classifications that are approved by the cosmopolitans, and the social services content is defined in its standard, so that we can react quickly to different situations, and so that we can introduce new types of social services. I think this should be the right of the cospolytics to make changes to the classification tool more expeditiously. You know we've been preparing this bill for a year and a half. For example, we need to introduce a new kind of social service, and we're going to be with you for a year and a half, people are going to be waiting. I think the government will be able to respond more quickly to the challenges that may occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u167	Thank you, dear fellow, for your clarification. I remind all our deputies and viewers that Mrs. Royal did not insist on voting on her amendment 299, rejected by the committee, but she needed a more thorough explanation of the position of the committee. The 309 amendment, the national deputy of Semimenach and Sotnik, was rejected by the committee. And Semenach's national deputy insists that we hear their amendment. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u168	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the law is aimed at ensuring that there is no violation of social assistance. The text of the draft law provides for the qualification of social services depending on their way of providing basic, complex, complex specialized and auxiliary services. In doing so, the authors of the text of the law also propose to give an inexhaustible or an indicative list of services that are included in such a classification. In our view, this does not meet the requirements of legal certainty and creates the risks of a problem with the application of law, since the reason for failure to provide a particular social service may well be its absence from such a meaningful list. We can't allow uncertainty or any ambiguity at the legislative level. This can certainly turn into abuse or other wrongdoing during the actual provision of such social services. So we're asking you to consider our revision. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u169	Please explain to Maxim Burbak about 309 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u170	It is suggested that you remove the list of social services that refer to complex ones. We believe that this list should be kept inexhaustible. We leave only the notion of "complex services" so that if new complex services are introduced, the government can react and implement more quickly through the classification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u171	Thank you. I'd like to make a determination for 309 amendments. [[13:22:37]] For-47 The correction is being rejected. 310 revisions. Mrs. Queen? Don't insist. 311th People's Deputy of Semimenah. He insists. Doesn't he insist? Okay. 312, the People's Deputy of Semimenah. Don't you insist? Okay. 316th, Olena Sotnik. Mrs. Sotnik, 316 corrections? Don't insist. 317th, the People's Deputy of Semimenah and Captain Helen. This is the amendment of two national deputies. She was rejected by the committee. And now, please, the People's Deputy of Semimenach is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u172	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. Dear colleagues, the same applies to the list of social services. I have to disagree with my colleague Burbak. It is 317 that is called upon to prevent an unwarranted reduction in the number of social services available. The editorial work was supplemented by a list of basic social services. By our right, we have proposed at the level of the law, I stress, the law, to determine not only the basics but also all the social services available today. This will not actually reduce social services to the level and list of basics themselves. In addition, we propose that the Ministry of Social Policy be empowered to complement the list of social services with its decisions. This will allow for the expansion of this list if necessary, and it will not require further changes to existing legislation, and it will be enough to decide, in fact, the Ministry of Social Policy itself. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u173	Please explain 317 amendments to the committee that I recall rejecting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u174	Yes, the committee decided to reject it, because we think it's a basic bill, it doesn't have to be burdened with detail, because we've formed all the classifications of social services depending on direction: social support, prevention, social services, types -- simple and complex, and so on, from place of delivery, from time to time. So the content of services is defined in its standard. The list of social services is set out in the social services classification, which is approved by the Ministry of Health. They will be able to respond more quickly to the challenges if new social services are needed. Why should we be limited in our legislation? And these changes will have to be made for a very long time. And I think that someday you will also work in the government and form as a future coalition, and you will put your employees in the cospopolitans, and why don't you delegate to them the right to form a classification tool?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u175	I'd like to make a determination for 317 amendments, Your Honor. [[13:25:42]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 325, and so is the National Deputy Sotnik and Semimenach. And I'm asking you to turn on the microphone to the National MP, Captain Oleni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u176	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Captain Olena, Self-Help faction. The amendment, it applies to State standards of social services, is article 17. And in part three, actually again, we did face the fact that the committee, it went in the principle of minimal positiveism, that is, minimally defining for executive authorities some boundaries within which they should act. But from the experience of working again, we understand that the clearer the legislator will define the boundaries where they, for example, should define the same standards of social services, the better they will work. Because, sadly, we do not yet have to expect initiatives from government authorities. That's why we suggested that we expand the third part and complement it directly with a list of areas where government standards of social services should be defined. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u177	Please explain from the deputy head of the 325th Amendment Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u178	The committee's position was that we should not narrow down the capacity of the cospolytics to respond quickly to new challenges. So if we give a clear list in the bill, then. And when people talk to me, a lot of voters also come to me, and then I'm going to make appropriate inquiries and I'm going to go to the cosmopolitans, and these are the issues that we're dealing with, the issues, and we can bring new services into the classification. So I think all services, they're provided and they're in line with government standards, and they have to be in line with their standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u179	Please identify 325 amendments, the National Deputies of Sotnik and Semimenach, which the Committee rejected. But we just heard the authors' position. Please. [[13:28:10]] For-45 45 for the amendment of these national deputies. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 329, the people's deputies. 328 is essentially accounted for. Captain, Semenicha insists.? No, it's not. 329 amendments, National Deputies of Mary Ion and Irina Heratchenko We propose this amendment, which, unfortunately, was rejected by the committee, to establish that state standards of social services are to be approved by the law of Ukraine. In our opinion, this formulation, laid down in the law, will strengthen the guarantees, first of all, of social services users, that they should be of an appropriate quality rather than formal, and thus increase responsibility, will make them more responsible for the provision of social services to the relevant standard of providers and relevant structures. Unfortunately, the committee did not accept this amendment. Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u180	Well, the profile committee, most of which are members of the coalition, is represented by the position of the cospolytics. And we think that the state-of-the-art social service needs to be approved by the cosmopolitans, because that gives them the ability to live and to respond more quickly to the changes that can take place in the area of social services and their standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u181	At the same time, we believe that there are now very many questions about the very imperfections of the services provided by the State, and the standards of these services should be higher. And please vote for this amendment. Dear colleagues, until we vote, because the deputy head of the committee wants to respond to the chairman's voice. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u182	All of us are on the path of decentralization and transfer of rights and powers to local self - government bodies, the creation of unified territorial communities, and budgetary decentralization. The People's Front faction always supports that. And we think that the standards of service delivery and the responsibility of organizations that provide services, and in the future they should be local self-government, they should also be able and correct in their own places. And why not because of cooperation with the cosmopolitans, they are able to make changes to standards according to different territorial features? Therefore, I believe that the limitations of the rights and possibilities of Minnesota are clear. binding in the law is simply going to have a negative impact on the ability to improve or change the provision of services.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u183	Thank you for your position. At the same time, as the authors of this amendment, we are struggling to raise standards. And we ask the hall to support our amendment. Please vote for the quality of the services provided and. [[13:31:28]] For-43 Thank you. 43 for, the amendment's been rejected. But hopefully this will not affect the quality of the services provided, which will be defined by the local self-government authorities in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy, by law, if we vote. 372 amendments, the People's Deputy of Amazanova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u184	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. You know, I'd like to start by 349 straights, it was partially counted, it's written. But unfortunately, again, I'm going to the secretariat, probably already to the committee, and I realize that the reporter here may not have been doing anything, but it was, in fact, written "partially counted." And a lot of time was spent by the committee or the committee secretariat to write down what was counted as a no, but it was actually taken into account in fact. That's why I don't insist on her voting, either. But still, I would ask the committee to prepare tables more carefully for the second reading, so that it would be more clear to the MPs to actually stop, to support, not support, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u185	Thank you. Thank you. I'm asking you to explain to the deputy head of the committee the 349 amendments, and then we'll go back to 372. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor, for your observation. So once again, I would like to emphasize that today at 3 p.m., we're going to have a meeting of the profile committee where we're going to consider the report of the committee of 2018 and your comments will be broadcast at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u187	Thank you, Your Honor. You see how wonderful it is when we can also polish the future improvements in the work of committees and their secretariats during the discussion of amendments. This is a positive moment in our discussion. And the next amendment is 372, the People's Deputy of Amazanova. Please, his microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u188	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. With regard to 372 amendments, we have already explained, in principle, that it referred to the deletion of the specific words "local government administrations, organs" and so on, but Mr. Reporter, Mr. Maxim Burbak has actually reported that these rules have been taken into account in other articles, in other amendments. That's why I don't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u189	Thank you. But we insist on clarifying the deputy head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u190	Dear colleague, once again, I can point out that representatives of the People's Front faction have been actively involved in the drafting of the bill for the second reading. We see the active position of the People's Front faction, and thank you for your understanding of the position of the committee, because it is a collegiate one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u191	Thank you for clarifying the work of the committee, which is really a college body. Mr. Amazanov does not insist on voting 372 amendments. The next amendment is 380, which was rejected, the national deputy of Semimenach and Sotnik. Which of the authors of this amendment will take the floor? 380, yes. And it applies to 24 articles. Don't insist. According to the authors, this amendment is technical and does not affect the content of the bill, so they do not insist. Amendment 400, National Deputy of Amazanov. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u192	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. This amendment also has a technical nature in fact, so in principle it doesn't make sense to look at it for a long time. I think the standards that are now set out in the final edition are committee, and I think they're more acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u193	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u194	Dear colleague of the People's Front faction, I can tell you that the responsibilities of the donors are defined in part eight of article 13 of the bill. I mean, it's all foregone conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u195	Thank you so much for explaining. Dear colleagues, I remind you that the National MP of Amazanov, who is the author of amendment 400, does not insist on voting, but he wanted to hear an explanation from the committee representative, for which we thank Mr. Maxim, who, as always, has very professionally explained to us the collective decision of the committee of profile. The next amendment is 414. It's true again (this is Heratschenko, Jonah's amendment), we don't insist on voting it, even on explaining it, but I'm going to stress once again that it applied the technical aspects of the chapter to the chapter of the bill that we're considering. But we already had a proper explanation for Mr. Burbak, who said that a committee on this subject had been consulted with the scientific and expert department on how codes and laws should be properly formulated. Anointed, 428 repairs. Please, Your Honor, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u196	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. This is exactly where we need to get a little bit more detailed, because 428 revisions she's talking about replacing in part three the word "is done by adverting by local government administrations or the ICJ authorities to provide social services at the expense of the budget." in the words "for the provision of social services at the expense of budgetary resources on a competitive basis by local government administrations." So actually, in this case, we're saying that it's the budget and what kind of specific bodies. So I don't understand why the committee didn't take my amendment into account. So I ask you to consider it, and I ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u197	Thank you. Please explain why the committee made such a decision regarding this important adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u198	To be honest, we've agreed to the position of the cospolytics that this is a technical amendment, and it's included in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u199	So, dear colleagues, we have heard an explanation from a committee representative who claims that those positions relating to social services are based on budgetary resources, as they are done on a competitive basis. This is the case with the amendment of the 428 people’s deputies of Amazananova. The Committee states that this rule on decisions to hold a social service tender at the expense of budgetary resources is set out in other articles of the relevant law. But the author of Amazanov insists that we have a colleague with you to vote on his version of the amendment. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:39:06]] For-43 Thank you, colleagues, but the correction is being rejected. And here it's going to sound like a committee. And the next is the 430 amendment, which is the same for our self-help colleagues from Mr. Semimenach and Mrs. Sotnik, who are very actively involved in the drafting of the bill for second reading. And Mrs. Sotnik wants to introduce this amendment to 430. Please, Mrs. Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u200	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. And thank you for such a high score. And by the way, thank you to the committee, because this is the first time that this is the number of amendments we have taken into account. Thank you for your cooperation. But a specific amendment is not included. The 430 amendment refers specifically to the allocation of budget resources directly to social services. And in this case, we've suggested that we expand the definition not only by budget, but also by budget and/or local budget. Because you and I fully understand that very often, given the budgetary process, part of these social services will be covered not only by the state budget but also by the local budgets. So it would be wise to clarify that immediately. I honestly don't know why the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u201	Please explain the committee’s position regarding the 430 amendments. Moreover, as Mrs. Stotnik and Simeonich rightly pointed out, most of their amendments were adopted by the committee, taking into account their high professional level and the improvement of the bill that we are working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u202	Mrs. Olena, thank you for your observation during the first part of your statement on the number of rights you have submitted to the bill. I've stressed that we have a college body, our committee, but in order for them to be more taken into account, we're still waiting for the Self-Help factions to be offered to be a member of the committee. Because one of your one-party members, when he was in office, you didn't fill that quota. Excuse me, we're waiting for a self-help representative on the committee. And secondly, we think there's budget, or they're government, or they're local budgets -- they're just budgetary. Social services should therefore be provided at the expense of budgets. One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine 430 amendments to our esteemed colleagues, Captain and Simeoniah. Please be sure. [[13:41:59]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. Fellows, I think we're going to be able to get some 10-12 rejected amendments today, and then we're going to move the rest of those amendments to tomorrow that we're going to have. And we're going to be able to get a successful vote on this important bill, as the deputy chairman of a committee who's been working on for over a year and a half. But I'm asking very much right now that we work on the amendments before the end of the session. And the next amendment is 435th, the People's Deputy of Amazanova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u204	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front faction. It's, on the one hand, a technical version, number 435, and on the other hand, it can play a big role. Since we note in the bill that social services providers can be both public and non-state persons, both private and public, but still, as Maxim Burbak stressed today, that social services should be financed by the State, it is written here in the last edition, committee, that social services provision and provision through the social procurement mechanism is done by compensating the providers of the value of services. I suggest you write, "private service providers." That is, we understand that if it is a service provider of a State or a public authority, it does not need compensation in principle. And if this is from the private sector of the provider of these services, it is for him to be compensated. So I think this amendment makes sense, it has the right to life. And I think we should vote, support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u205	Thank you. Please explain the position of the committee on this amendment regarding private service providers, social services providers, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u206	Yes, this bill introduces the possibility of providing services to the private sector. But we believe that social services through social procurement can only be provided by government and municipal broadcasters, that is, by government or local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u207	Thank you. So the position of the committee is essentially to remove private providers of social services from the process. And I'm asking you to identify yourself for Amendment 435 right now. Yeah, yeah, just by socializing, of course, of course, of course. You have explained this very carefully, carefully and competently, Mr. Burbak. I ask you to vote on Amendment 435. [[13:44:57]] For-42 You see, the committee. It is the committee's support for the speech here. Yes, it is. Now the amendment block goes to the people's deputies, Captain and Simeoniah. Because it seems that the amendments that were at the beginning of the bill were more actively supported by the committee. And here came a little bit of aberration. 440 Amendments to the People’s Deputies of Sotnik and Semimenach Mr. Semensi's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u208	Semenha Roman, "The Self-Help Union" faction. It's just as we discussed it. Colleagues, there is no budget, there are taxpayers' costs. And that's the basic attitude to these costs. And it is the taxpayers who need to be given public control over the provision of such social services. With this right, we propose to create public councils for the provision of social services as advisory bodies of the Ministry of Justice, appropriate local government administrations, local self-government bodies. Among the key tasks of such councils would be to participate in the standardization process in the area of social services provision, to participate in the assessment of the quality of such social services, public control of targeted costs and so forth. This amendment is called on to make the process of providing social services open and transparent to the public because it is, again, the costs of taxpayers, and they have the right to control everything. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u209	Let's go back to logic here to the committee and comment on amendment 440, which was rejected by the committee, and it's again and again about the costs, the budget costs, which are actually the costs of taxpayers. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u210	I share your position on controlling the use of taxpayers' tax costs that fill the state and local budgets. But after you and I have carried out decentralization and fiscal decentralization reform together, you know that most of the money is already spent on local budgets, I also share your position that local self-government authorities that spend local budgets should be more closely monitored. But I can say that article 11 provides that the order of compliance with the requirements of this law will be approved by Kabmin, i.e. Kabmin, when implementing this law, will introduce regulations to which it will be given the opportunity, if that is the case. For example, and the Association of Cities will support the need to create public councils. If the authorities of local self-government are ready to put in place an even more careful public control function, I will welcome it. And I think the Minsoths will agree as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u211	Thank you. I would like to point out that we have a deputy minister of social policy present. That's a positive fact. And we would like to welcome all the bills to be considered by the representatives of the ministries of profile, to listen to the debate of the deputies, and then to take into account in the drafting of the sub-legislative acts. This is the full competence and function of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And now we're voting for 440 amendments to our colleagues, Seminach and Sotnik. [[13:48:28]] For-38 And we also have repairs from the esteemed colleagues of Semimenach and Sotnik. Dear colleague. Dear colleague, Mrs. Sotnik, presents amendment 448.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u212	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Olena Sotnik, Self-Help faction. The 448 amendment is technical, but at the same time it refers to definition. This article suggests that social services should be provided in the best way possible. We state that these are not only practices in Ukraine today but also European practices. Let me remind you that Ukraine is a country that has chosen a vector of European integration, so we're going to propose and we're going to anchor it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u213	Thank you. Please explain the 448 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u214	I want to say that this bill, which has been drafted on our committee for over a year and a half, which is made up of it, has happened, mostly from coalition representatives, and we have confirmed that better practices and better experience, it is so correct, it will be European and national, because in February we will accept with you changes to the Constitution, where it will be envisaged that Ukraine is confidently moving towards EU and NATO membership. And we believe, the coalition, the People's Front faction, that Ukraine will be a member of the European Union, because that experience will also be European. So I don't think we need to burden this bill with different definitions in advance. We will be members of Europe, and this experience will be European.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u215	Please identify yourself for 448 amendments, colleagues. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:50:30.]] For-41 The correction is being rejected. The next is the amendment of the Honorable Fellows of Captain and Simeoniah. Please, Mrs. Sotnik, 454. And then I'll come back to you, Mrs. Natala. I'm sorry, 454th. Don't insist. Please turn on Mrs. Natalia's microphone. 447 revisions. What is the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u216	442 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u217	Two, two. Please, Mrs. Queen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, I am grateful that the committee has considered this amendment in part. But I want to make an offer so that we can also work on the final edition. Only the professional associations of workers in the social services system are involved. We're proposing to involve social organizations that function in the social protection of the population. That is, a broader and unattached circle of people. Because professional integration of the social sphere is a very specific thing. And when we're able to engage a wide range of public organizations, there's monitoring of social services, assessing their quality, then we're going to have really public control over the quality of these services. That's why I'm not insisting right now, and I'm asking Ministry 442 to work on the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u219	Thank you, Your Honor. Mrs. Natale, you were not given the floor because your amendment was partially taken into account, and so I didn't notice in your hand that you would like to express your position on the full contents of your amendment. Ms. Kraljevska does not insist on a vote of 442 amendments; she refers in this case to the representatives of the Ministry to take these positions into account in the legal acts. And in this case, the committee would like to express its position. Please, Mr. Maxime.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u220	The committee thinks we can get involved. The public is already involved in public control of the provision and quality of social services, since the local self-government authorities, which are formed through members of the local authorities that are elected from the community, are through performances and social protection agencies. And by involving the public in the control of the provision of services, the public can be involved in the provision of services. Because they are willing to control the grant, but they are not willing to give it. That's why we agreed to a proposal from the University of Minnesota. But if they hear your offer, we're ready to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u221	Thank you for your clarification. Again, I would point out that Mrs. Royal does not insist on voting. Dear colleagues, we have literally more time for a few amendments. We've got 458ths, 459ths and 463rds of the people's deputies, Sotnik and Semimenach. We will now give the floor to Mrs. Captain in turn, Mr. Maxime will take the seat of the committee. Please make the first - 458 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u222	Madam Chairman, I asked simply, considering that the 458th, 459th and 463th amendments were combined with one question, if I may, give me two minutes immediately, I will express my position in more detail, because those questions were fundamental to self-help even at first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u223	I'm asking you to give me a minute to sound this block of amendments: 458ths, 459ths and 463ths. Then we will hear the position of deputy chairman of the committee and we will vote in turn. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u224	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that, on the one hand, I agree with the committee's position that the seemingly innocent definition of budget in legislation should satisfy us. But the Self-Help faction at the first reading, when voting on the first reading, insisted that the burden of financing social services could not lie entirely on the local budgets. And it was a fundamental question for us that we would clearly divide and understand that there are social services that are financed at different levels, including from the state budget. So it's going to be both state funds and local budgets. And I think that, in fact, this general approach that we have today in the law of second reading, that it's purely budgetary, it's going to result in a conflict, a conflict between local authorities and government authorities, when the distribution, who's responsible for it, and what's financed, is that as a result, no one's going to finance anything. Therefore, it would be desirable, of course, to give more attention to the matter. You know, any good idea, if it doesn't have resources, it just doesn't have a chance of implementation. So the question of the principle of self-help distribution remains important. And you can see that we have more than seven amendments to that, and unfortunately, they're all rejected. So it's not the question that we just technically want to clarify it, we just want to protect the local budgets from being burdened to the fullest extent, and that's a fairly large number of people. Because I'm going to remind you of what we're considering in the law: social services, services to people who are in difficult situations in life. And, unfortunately, there are many people in Ukraine today. This means a very serious amount of funding. So, of course, we're disappointed that this is exactly the issue that the committee wasn't working on, which could result in a conflict between the local level of the budget and the state level of the budget. So once again, I ask you to put all these three amendments to the vote. And the head of the committee, more precisely, if you'll excuse me, would still comment on how you're going to see this distribution happening in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u225	Please comment to the deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u226	I don't share your concerns that the burden of social services will only be passed on to local budgets. Once again, I'm saying that we've introduced the notion of "budgetary" so that we don't share government or local budgets to make it possible and co-financing so that we can distribute what services are provided at the expense of the state budget that services are provided at the expense of local budgets. Because I also share the idea that you and I should vote in the next budget, for example, not 60 percent of the VAT, but 80 percent of the VAT is left in local budgets to make other local taxes better fill local budgets. We should vote for the PPF to be located in the place of the actual location of the enterprise, not just in the place of legal registration. So we need to work with you to expand the tax base and fill the local budgets, which, in turn, will do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u227	Please, one more minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u228	That, in turn, would allow for more translation than that of burden, but of responsibility. Because now all the local communities want taxes, finance, authority, everyone forgets about distance. When you spend money on the local budget, you have to control the quality of the budget, so that it does not go missing in a barrel. Therefore, the transfer of powers, the transfer of additional revenue to the budget, and then, frankly, the function of social services should also be transferred. Remember that the ranks of the population in need of these social services are your inhabitants of the territorial communities, and you are responsible for them too. This is the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u229	Thank you for your clarification. Dear colleagues, I think that this block of amendments that has just been made in explaining the authors, Mrs. Sotnik and Semenach, is very important. And the discussion took place with regard to the distribution of the actual budget to which the burden would lie: the central budget or the local budgets. Please vote in turn. 458 amendments, please be determined. [[13:59:36]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. We still have two amendments to vote on, but there has been an explanation. 259. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:01]] For-37 The correction is being rejected. And 463. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:00:19]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. Colleagues, we're stopping at 466 amendments, from which we'll start our consideration of this bill on Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-01-16-m0.u230	So, dear colleagues, tomorrow we will be able to conclude the discussion and, I'm sure, make a positive decision. I want to address everyone, colleagues, tomorrow's the block of agrarian politics. Of these, two laws are necessary for the implementation of the EU Association Agreement. Tomorrow there'll be a block of information, extremely important laws. It's going to be a PEK block, a fuel-energy complex. And I very much ask everyone tomorrow to come to the hall with discipline so that we can work effectively and effectively, colleagues. This morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. I wish everyone good work on the committees. And, colleagues, tomorrow at 10 o'clock, I'm waiting for everyone in the hall to resume our work. Thank you all. Good-bye. Happy birthday. See you tomorrow.
