ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u1	What school? Dear colleagues, I'm afraid I don't know what school. I think we can welcome our young visitors. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. [[B in m in s a l in]] I can still see that Urban is. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to register? Please register. [[16:07:46]] There are 287 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues! Nestor Ivanovich, don't leave, let the people see their heroes, to whom they will owe a 30-minute break. Dear colleagues, "The Opposition Platform for Life" and.? What's different? Nestor Ivanovich, who else is taking? And Batenko Taras Ivanovich, "For the Future", insists on a break of 30 minutes asking to meet in my office. I'm inviting the faction heads. Will you please tell me right now, and then someone will take a break? No, just so we know how to work. They're taking a break, aren't they?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, a statement came from two factions, so the break lasted up to 17 hours for 05 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, at last the break is over, please take your seats, prepare for the vote and get to work. Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are invited to consider a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the adverse effects of air pollution on public health. — Registration No. 2296. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. This question is suggested by a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I would like to vote on the proposal to consider the bill outlined above in the summary procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:08:59]] For 228 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Stefanchuk Mikola Olexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u4	Good day, fellow Members, your opinion is proposed in Bill No. 2296, which aims to preserve our environmental environment, because more than 17 million tons of harmful substances are being released into the atmosphere each year. According to this indicator, Ukraine has been among the leaders for more than a year, and as a result, it has led to a number of harmful diseases. In our bill, we offer two key positions that will reduce emissions into the atmosphere, especially in peak hours in large cities such as Kiev, Kharkiv, Odessa, Dnipro, Zaporozhye, Vinnice, Curve Rig, Ternopil, Hmelnicki, Poltava, Herson and others. We're focused on protecting the natural environment right in the big cities, over 250,000 people, because in peak hours, emissions into the atmosphere are the highest. Therefore, as drafters of the bill, we are offered two key positions. The first is to introduce temporary restrictions on the road traffic of trucks with a total mass of 8 tons of urban territory of 250 and more thousand persons from 6 to 11 a.m. and from 17 to 21 p.m. The second is to oblige local authorities to take measures to avoid exceeding the health standards of noise levels and other harmful emissions in the community. I ask you all to pay attention to the fact that this law is out of politics. We are not talking about him having an interest in some political power. It is the interest of each of us, it is the interest of a healthy Ukrainian, it is the interest of our children’s health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u5	Thank you. The report is given to the Head of the Committee on National Health, Medical Care, and Medical Insurance of Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u6	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! On November 13, the Committee considered at its meeting a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the adverse effects of air pollution on public health (registration No. 2296) and considered that the problem to be addressed was extremely relevant. This bill was supported unanimously by all members of the committee. At the same time, the committee agrees with the comments of our colleagues from the Transport and Infrastructure Committee on the appropriateness of transferring the proposed amendments to the road traffic restrictions of trucks to the Road Traffic Act of Ukraine. The committee proposes to delete the amendments to articles 6, 47 and 48 of the Ukrainian Road Transport Act and to transpose them into the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act by supplementing it with a new article 26-2 on the relevant restrictions on road traffic of trucks in locations. In addition, we believe that it is worth giving the authorities of the local self-government of large cities the opportunity to change the time periods of traffic restrictions, to set more stringent requirements for the weight of freight transport (the device) even less than 8,000 tonnes, 8 tonnes, sorry, and to allow local self-government authorities of all cities, regardless of the population's size, to impose other temporary road restrictions on their decisions. The Committee on National Health, Health and Health Insurance adopted a decision on the outcome of the first reading to adopt Bill 2296 on the basis of the need to amend Ukraine's Road Traffic Act, which was not under consideration, and in accordance with part one of article 116 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. The Committee also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 116, shorten the deadlines for the submission of comments and proposals by legal entities.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this matter? Write it down: two-in-a-row, two-in-action factions. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u8	Please pass the word to the Prince's Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u9	Again, Nina Petrovna? Princess Mikola Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, I have, among other things, an international performance index in combating climate change from Greenpeace, and Ukraine here is not bad, we are 17 places above France and many other countries, Russia 52nd, to be clear. Now it's about this law. We are all concerned about ecology, and there are many normal norms that recommend that local self - government authorities take more care of it. The authorities of local self - government still have that possibility. But what does the law offer? Don't let any trucks into the cities at any given hour, because more than 8 tons is any truck. Not from trucks is air pollution, because we vote for engines of the second standard, old people, when we vote for cars that are the main air pollutants, but we block our businesses. We have people leaving anyway. People who live on certain roads will hear these trucks at night because they will still be in town, and people who work in businesses will have to go to work at night. We have such a wonderful economic situation! Ecologists who have studied this law and environmental social organizations are surprised because it has nothing to do with the protection of the environment. It's absolutely populist, because there are no calculations that trucks in the morning and in the evening can't get into the city and that it's harmful to ecology. Instead, if really harmful, local authorities have the right to restrict such entry in cities where it is harmful. So by supporting the positive initiatives of the authors, we will abstain in voting for this, sorry, populist bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u11	Salichuk Alexander Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Kiril Nesterenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u13	Nesterenko Kiril.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u14	Kiril Nesterenko, 26th District, Dnipro. Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The authors of the legislative initiative raise an extremely important theme: reducing air pollution. Our environmental committee has repeatedly raised the issue of air pollution. And before studying this problem, I was sure that our environment was in a better position. But two thirds of our population is in an area where atmospheric air is dangerous to human health. A strange situation has arisen in Ukraine: industrial production is falling, and air pollution remains stable. Automobile transport, especially those that do not meet any environmental standards, such as factories, is one of the main sources of harmful emissions. Large cities suffer the most. So I would like to support the initiative of our colleagues to reduce the time that trucks stay in large cities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u15	Thank you. Stephanie Olga Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u16	Please pass the word to Julia Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u17	Julia Leonidna Klimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you that this bill is made up of one and a half pages. While the GNEU’s conclusions are negative, they are made up of four pages. Please stop doing legislative spam and spend our time because 95 percent are already regulated in existing legislation. I also inform the authors of the bill that decentralization is taking place in the country. Local authorities can and can make it possible for themselves to travel by car or not to move by car. And if you want to take care of the environment and the health of the nation, please first, clean the water, adopt legislation; go to "A-6" machines, not the old "A-2" machines, and legalize the Europlums, and adopt other necessary bills. And we're bringing money into Ukraine so people can buy expensive cars and drive, and better apartments. Stop doing legislative spam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u19	Batenko Taras Ivanovich. Bondar Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, this bill is a typical example when populism overshadows common sense. You're suggesting we vote in favour of improving the environment, banning the launch of large-scale vehicles, medium-loading vehicles. In fact, you ban large cars from entering cities because of the pretext that we are so struggling with city noises. And if we let them go at night, do you think it'll make the city quieter? Oh, no. So it doesn't make sense in this bill. Moreover, it means that all trading networks, all those who are now fully supplied, supermarkets, cafes and so forth, will be forced to bring people out at night to receive goods. So who's going to thank you after that? Ten percent of trucks travel to ensure the operation of commercial networks, cafes, restaurants, and so forth. You forbid them to enter because it will be noisy during the day. And at night they will come in, and thousands of people will be taken to work to accept the goods and so on, there will be no noise. So let's end this populism. Let's stop this legislative spam and think about what we're voting for. I urge all deputies to read carefully what is written. Because it's like the struggle for ecology is sometimes done simply by stupidities that have nothing to do with real life. Thank you. And I urge everyone to abstain or vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u21	Thank you. "Fatherland," Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, a minute with motives. After that, Coltunovich, a minute of motive. And let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u22	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, you know, if we're talking about legislative work, in the legislative process, quantity never goes into quality, quantity produces chaos. And what, indeed, is all the colleagues who have made a bill today that concerns a matter that is not a question of Parliament at all. It's not our function to determine which city or village and when cars are to enter, it's not our function, it's a matter for local governments to decide. If we want to have normal working and adequate communities, we need to give them the questions that they can solve, solve them in places, and most importantly, let's give them real resources, the funds that they can manage and develop our settlements, then in Ukraine there will be more order. And the less the Supreme Council adopts laws, the better it will be for the country, because I look at the quality of the laws that we adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u23	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to speak in support of this bill, because the issue that is being considered today is extremely important, especially in large cities, and I will explain why. Because today our colleagues are mentioning, yes, we really need to implement the European Union directives on greening and rational use of natural resources, we really need to introduce European technical regulations and standards for the protection of the environment. But it is only today that one mechanism is proposed to achieve that ultimate goal. Of course, stimulating the deployment of Euro-6 electric vehicles, what was said today about pollution companies and many other points, they are relevant, but in our view today we need to take the first step, and we are ready to do it to reduce the stress on health and on the cancers that occur today in cities, in big cities, and this all affects our children. Thank you for your attention. And I will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u25	Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich. And let's go to the vote. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u26	Sergey Shahov, Luganshina, Trust Group. Respectful colleagues, technology, and environmental catastrophes plague our country. In fact, in recent days we have held meetings of a group united for the technological and environmental security of our country in the energy-fuel complex and transportation of Ukraine. Please tell me, the situation at the table was tense, why? Because 28 years, and even more, of the Soviet Union, our businesses have not been modernized. The air can be cut with a knife today. There are dozens of people who suffer from oncology every day, especially children. Today, barns are filled with complete garbage of 200 kilograms per person.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u27	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of a proposal by the committee to take into account the proposed clarifications when preparing for second reading in accordance with article 116 of the Rules, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine to prevent the adverse effects of air pollution on public health (registration No. 2296). Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:25:54]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, it was an offer to cut the deadline by half. I am voting for a proposal to cut half the time and submit proposals and rights and prepare for the second reading, according to article 116, part two, of the Rules, Bill No. 2296. Please support and vote. [[17:26:35]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You have been proposed a bill amending the Ukraine Land Code and other legislation on land use planning (registration No. 2280). It is suggested that this issue be dealt with by a reduced procedure, and I ask you to support and vote. [[17:27:12]] For 246 Decision taken. The report is given to the national deputy of Ukraine, Halimon Paul Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u28	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislation on land use planning (Registration No. 2280) from 17.10.2019. I remind you that today, planning for land use in Ukraine is done through two types of documentation: urban and land-based. And it's not always the decision planning that's defined by the same documentation, it's the same decision that the other documentation makes. The bill proposes the development of a single, complex documentation that will be distributed throughout the community, both united and ordinary, while planning will be used both within and outside the population. As a result, once such documentation has been approved, the community will fully plan its territory and no other documentation will be needed. In addition, all information on land use restrictions will be submitted to the State Land Cadastre, and the draft law also gives the landowner the right to change the target destination of the land if the chosen target type is consistent with the functional destination of the territory defined in detail or in the zone plan. Information on the selected target type will be submitted at his request to the State Land cadastre. This does not apply to the lands of defence, to the lands of conservation, to the historical and cultural use, but in these cases it will be necessary to agree with the Ministry of Defence or the government. The proposed mechanism is more flexible for the landowner. It will contribute to the recovery of investment and will destroy the corrupt component of changing the earth’s purpose. On the other hand, such a mechanism leaves the authorities of local self - government with effective weights for managing the territory. Please support the bill on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u29	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Agarn and Land Policy Committee of Solski Mikola Tarasovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that what you are from the committee? Halimon Paul Vitaliovich is also a representative of the committee. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u30	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture and Land Policy at its meeting on 13 November 2019 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code and other legislative instruments on land use planning (registration No. 2280), introduced by the national deputies of Ukraine, Montenegro, Nagaevsky, Halimon, Kostuk, Solski, Tchaikovsky, Salichuk, Tarasov, Hajud, Huzenk, Šuljak and Kunaev. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the explanatory note to it, is to address the issues of community boundaries, comprehensive spatial planning of community territories, which cancels the need to develop several types of urban documentation and documentation related to land, to regulate issues related to its approval, to standardize the development of an electronic cartographic basis for the planning of the territory, to ensure that socio-economic development programmes are effectively linked to spatial planning documentation, and to create a transparent and non-conflict mechanism to address public and private interests through transparent public discussions. The bill proposes to amend Ukraine’s Land Code, Ukraine’s Water Code, Ukraine’s Land Administration Laws, regulations on urban activities, and the State Land cadastre, on the alienation of land, other immovable property that is located in private property, and on social needs, or on grounds of social necessity. According to the authors, the adoption of the bill will allow for the continuous development of areas that take into account public, public and private interests, improve governance in the area of urban activities and land administration, facilitate the execution of topographic, geodetic and cartographic work for spatial planning, contribute to the development of automated resource management systems, the integrated preservation of a full living environment, ensure the efficient use and protection of all land within ODS areas, attract investors, meet the land needs of their communities and others. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of comments to the bill and, as a result of the first reading, believes that the project should be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u31	Thank you. Please sign up: two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, two in, Pasic Alexander Stanislavovich. Out of place, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Artem Blackmore.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u33	Again, who? Black Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u34	The Honourable Head, the distinguished national MPs, the law is highly structured and greatly simplifies all processes that will be in the earth’s order. Can I have your back, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u35	Bacunec Pavel Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Paul Bakunec, Jove, Jaborishte. The Trust MP Group is proposing to support this useful land-based bill. The main feature of this bill is the possibility of such spatial planning of community territories. This is another step toward meeting the authorities of local self - government. First of all, this bill is designed to address the problems of setting the boundaries of each community. Secondly, the Trust Group supports and proposes the bill of unification and urban and land-based documentation into one comprehensive document. It's very important. Thirdly, the Trust Group supports and empowers local self-government authorities to plan land use not only within the populated area but also outside the populated area. It should be noted, however, that today the authorities of the Dergeokadastra district are making such abuses and are auctioning for 49 - year rents of large plots of land, especially in the Lviv region, especially in the Jaborovsk and Jovkow region. This shame must be stopped. Today, too, local governments actually make decisions twice on the same basis: first they approve detailed plans, then they approve technical documentation if it is possible to do so in one step. This will reduce corruption. Therefore, the bill is proposed to be based on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u37	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u38	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, well, first of all, I would like to point out that the bill in question does not refer to the subject of knowledge of the committee that has just represented it, namely the 90th Committee on Construction, Local Self-Government, etc. This is the first very important moment. One second. A series of norms that are in this draft law, and we've seen this from the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, are not in line with the norms of the Earth Code or with other adjacent draft laws. Well, as far as the most important question that is being considered today is, and we have discussion, critical discussion points on the land committee that relate to the introduction of the market circulation of agricultural land. We all know that 10.5. 10.4 million acres [10.4 million ha] of agricultural land are in possession of the most liquid land. I call on both the committee of profiles and the deputies of the People's Servant to do their utmost to ensure that these amounts of land are dispersed among those citizens who have not received them in their own time. I'm going to remind you that only 7.5 million people got it. Others have not received suitable land. So if, really, this is how I want to contribute to the development of the land issue in Ukraine, my proposal is to pay attention to it and to decompose it, and to allow the ownership of Ukrainian citizens to land. And as far as this is concerned, it's a very important point today, and it's the position of local authorities that don't even have community funds on general plans, not to mention that they're in complex spatial development programs. And because of these conditions, we also have to take all these aspects into account. And my proposal is not to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u39	Thank you. The word is given by Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Then we go to voting for the law. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u40	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is essentially a technical law that has to ensure that land is actually formed and that land-law relations are implemented. Some said that communities needed him. So based only on the content of the documentation that's being proposed, I'll tell you that the agreement is going to take place for 1 year, the approval procedure is going to be for another 4-6 months. The cost will definitely exceed the total cost of creating a detailed plan, a master plan and direct development of topographical material, and carrying out land inventory. And you asked the community if this law was necessary? We've seen what's proposed here, colleagues, so let me tell you. Next. A preliminary consideration is added to the city council and the corresponding level of strategic environmental assessment, public discussion, public discussion at the city council, and so on. I want to remind you once again that this bill will complicate the fate of the territorial communities and create detailed plans and plans there. And the next. Why should an article on the procedure for the approval of land administration documentation set out the order for the approval of such documentation with reference to another law? Are we going to send a third or a fifth law? This law, it's just technical, but it works, colleagues, it won't. And I advise before any laws are passed that apply to the formation of community territories, to the question of communities, because they're going to design these plans, they're going to approve them, and they know exactly what services they're working on, and how much time is going to be spent directly to implement what's laid down in this law. Colleagues, it's a dead law, it just isn't capable of bringing the land into the territorial communities of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u41	All those who wish to speak? Please prepare for the vote, let's proceed to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending the Ukraine Land Code and other legislative instruments on land use planning (Registration No. 2280). I'd like to invite the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Dear colleagues? I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support and vote. [[17:40:50]] For 265 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Show the factions, please. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Substances of Ozone and Fluorinated Green Gas. — Registration No. 0874. Reported to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use by Jakimenko, Paul Vitaliyovich. It's a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, Reverend Dmitri Alexanderovich! We have carefully considered Bill 0874 on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases, and we consider its adoption to be very important and relevant to the country. Because today this area is not regulated and is evolving without taking into account international processes and environmental problems. The proposed bill, in our view, solves two problems at the same time. One is the conservation of the ozone layer and the reduction of climate impacts, the ban on the release of ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases into the environment, the improvement of the qualifications of personnel working with climate and ozone-resistant substances and equipment that contain them, and the introduction of control of sources. This will ensure that substances are reduced in the environment and that there is a corresponding negative pressure on the climate system and the environment. The second is the failure of countries in Europe and other developed countries to accept the provision of morally outdated equipment for the Ukrainian market. Such equipment is cheap today, and tomorrow it will have nothing to charge. The day after tomorrow, it's waste that's also going to be our environmental problem. Another thing is that the commitments you made are fulfilled. The Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer is an international agreement that requires gradual reduction and further cessation of consumption of these substances. And Ukraine, as a party to the protocol, as a developed, responsible country, has to ensure that. I would like to point out that a comparative table containing 66 amendments and proposals from four subjects of the legislative initiative has been prepared by the Committee in the second reading of the bill, including: 3 - rejected, 56 - counted, 7 - partially counted. Thank you for your attention. Please support and vote in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the day-to-day issue. 10 revisions, Labunska. Please don't split up, there won't be much line here, I understand. Is there an offer to move tomorrow? Dear colleagues, there's almost all the paperwork taken into account. Labunski. Marikowski. Dear colleagues, a minute of the Ministry's motivation, and we move on to the vote. Deputy Minister Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u44	Alexei Rybchin, Minecoenergo. I want to thank the people's deputies in advance. And I want to ask you to vote in favour of this bill. And, in fact, help pay off the debt to nature and pay off the debt, meet the international obligation. The ozone-depleting substances are used in refrigeration, air conditioning, heating, pumping equipment, fire protection systems, fire extinguishers, high-voltage distribution devices. It's all going to be regulated. And the law provides for the establishment of a register of controlled substances operators, as well as for the reporting of subjects. In general, by 2045, nations are expected to reduce the use of these fluorinated greenhouse gases, which have been replaced with ozone - depleting substances by 80 percent, that is, no ban at all. And I want to address the Ukrainians, the citizens. Remember, when you throw an old refrigerator or air conditioner out onto the street, that is how you kill our planet. Please don't do this. And the request to support this law is too important for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on ozone-depleting substances and fluorinated greenhouse gases (registration No. 0874). Please prepare for the vote. And please don't split up, there's not a lot of law here in the next bill. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:46:27]] For 322 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. The factions. "People's Servant" 218, "The Opposition Platform for Life" 12, "European Solidarity" 22, "Fatherhood" 12, "For the Future" 15, "Voice" 18, "Trust" 15, "Trust". Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Law on Principles for Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (register No. 0875). As reported by Jakimenko, Paul Vitaliyovich, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Use. Please don't break up, all the changes are accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u46	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u47	Or do we immediately vote, fellow believers? I am voting on the proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law on Principles for Monitoring, Reporting and Verification of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Registration No. 0875). Please support and vote. [[17:47:44]] For 335 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 219, "Response Platform for Life" – 25, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 15, "Voice" – 18, "Trust" – 15, "non-factional" – 9. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (registration number 1233). Reported to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights by Trelyaków Galina Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u48	On October 3, the Supreme Council adopted Bill 1233 in its first reading. I'll remind you, it's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u49	Please don't break up, two revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u50	Let me remind you of the bill. The bill proposes to reduce fines. After working on the committee, the committee counted or partially counted 17 proposals, 22 proposals rejected, and not everyone insisted. These conceptual changes are such. The title of the bill is now called "to amend Law 265 of the Code of Law on the Work of Ukraine". The fines are reduced by 50 percent when they are paid within 10 days of the date of the decision. Penalties will not be applied if the employer has removed the infringement before or during the check. However, the situation does not apply to repeated violations, to relapses accordingly. Moreover, in the event that a breach is detected for the first time in a small business that is a payer of a single group I-II tax, only a warning applies to them. It's an offer from the Fatherland faction. Thus, the committee recommends approval of the text of a comparative table and an additional table and recommended that Parliament adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we don't have two checks. The sub-class is 1 correction, the Podlas is 2 revisions. Don't you insist? Are you insisting? Please turn on the Podlasi microphone. What's the readout?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u52	An additional comparative table of 13.11, 1 revision and 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u53	Okay. Report, 1 correction. What's "yes"? Rocksolana Andriyevne, sorry, what's that? I understand, I see what a "yes" is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u54	I'm sorry. Both are related to the dismissal of civil servants. In fact, these changes were included in Bill 1066, which we supported. And the point of these changes is that we allow the public service not to offer an alternative position in the dismissal of civil servants.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u55	Thank you. I take it you do? Is it not, or is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u56	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u57	I'm betting on the vote number one of the Podlasses. Additional table. The committee didn't count it. Committee position?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u58	The committee did not take it into account, but I would recommend that it be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u59	Again?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u60	Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u61	Support me. I got it. Count it, you mean, right? Yeah. Okay. I'm betting number one of the sub-assemblies, and it wasn't counted by the committee. Still, I take it the thought has changed a little bit, hasn't it? Please support and vote. [[17:51:35]] For 240 Edit included. Edit the number 2 of the Subclass. Same situation? Yeah. The committee didn't count her, now he won't deny it. Please support and vote. Edit No. 2 of the Roxolana Andrivan sub-assemblies, an additional table. [[17:52:06]] For 231 Decision taken. Amendment number 4, Bondarev. Don't insist. Amendment number 13. Who's going to insist on editing? I propose to go to the vote for the bill. Let's do it without motive. Do you have any papers? Turn on Gerasimov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u62	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, respected Ukrainians! What's going on in front of your eyes? In a rather fine law that was drafted by the committee and for which everyone was going to vote, there have just been a set of regulations that have no bearing on it, but that distort it and apply to completely different things. So unfortunately, "European Solidarity" is not going to be able to support this bill right now because of the changes that have come out of the sky and have just been adopted in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u63	The committee’s answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u64	An additional tablet has long been published on the site, and everyone has seen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (Registration No. 1233). Please prepare for the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please support and vote. [[17:54:17]] For 267 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" - 216, "Resistance Platform for Life" - 0, "European Solidarity" - 0, "Fatherhood" - 6, "For the Future" - 4, "Voice" - 18, "Trust" - 16, "non-fractional" - 7. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (Registration No. 2043). It is suggested that we consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support and vote. [[17:55:05]] For 226 Decision taken. It's a good word. That's a procedural decision, that's 150. The word is given to the deputy head of the Digital Transformation Committee Federico Alexandre Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u66	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Thank you, Dmitri Alexanderovich, for the last few minutes of the third time, we will still consider this bill. Thus, the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation is a priority component of Ukraine's integration into the European Union. One of the important areas in which Ukrainian legislation is being adapted is technical rules and standards, especially security. Colleagues, there's no politics in this bill, it's about boring, but things like regulations and standards are really necessary. It should be noted that the bill was developed with the participation of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine and security professionals, cybersecurity of the public sector. For the time being, the issue of information security in the European Union is regulated by family standards for information security management. These standards are used to independently assess the conformity of systems used to protect information. The Ukrainian Information Protection Act introduces an alternative way of confirming the compliance of the information system with information protection requirements. The bill introduces in Ukraine the requirements of the SUIB family standards for individual categories of information. This is about open or confidential information, protection requirements established by law, or belonging to public information resources. Such information may be processed in the system without the application of a system of information protection, but if the system complies with the information protection requirements. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation at its meeting on 30 October 2019 approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (for confirmation of conformity).
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u67	Give me two more minutes. Alexander Pavlovich, both from the authors and from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u68	Yes, thank you, thank you for giving me your word. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Digital Transformation at its meeting on 30 October 2019 adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Act amending the Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (for confirmation of compliance of the information system with information protection requirements) (Registration No. 2043) introduced 9.09. In 19th year, the Ukrainian National Deputies Fedienc Alexander and Michael Kryczko. In its conclusion, the principal scientific administration also proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u69	Thank you. The proposal came without discussion to vote in favour of the bill. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems (Registration No. 2043). Please take your seats. Ready to vote? I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Please support and vote. [[17:59:22]] For 291 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider Bill 2133 -- this is the draft Law on the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Debtors in Collecting Activities -- and to go over and finish our evening session. Is there a deal? Yes. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[18:00:07]] For 261 Decision taken. Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u70	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues, in fact, Bill 2133 is extremely important and relevant. Today, according to statistics, 1 out of every 6 Ukrainian citizens suffer from so - called black collectors. The issue of the legislative solution of this problem, or so - called hopeless debt, is indeed very relevant. For the time being, current legislation does not contain direct general rules, qualified for the signs of unscrupulous practices and actions required for the very long-term debt. There are also no legislative mechanisms that violate the rights of debtors, and there is no mechanism to compensate the debtor for the illegal actions of collectors. There was a meeting of a working group led by a colleague of Mrs. Olga Bilkova, who I thank for the presence of professional collectors on this working group, representatives of banks, and representatives of already organized groups of victims, defenders who protect those people who are on the phone day and night and on behalf of so-called black collectors who are demanding repayment of the debt. People are deprived of their possessions, their last means of livelihood. Our main objective of this bill is to protect the rights and legitimate interests of debtors against the unscrupulous actions of collectors. We are well aware that there is also the position of bank representatives. But above all, this bill is called upon to protect the rights of debtors. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u71	Thank you. Report to the head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Bilkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, dear Ukrainians! My colleague has already pointed out why this bill was tabled for your consideration today. The point is that the Supreme Council has tried to regulate the proper work of collectors on several occasions. Indeed, such companies work in Ukraine today without their own law. Some of them carry on their activities, as is appropriate: do not bother citizens at night, do not resort to threats, do not approach neighbors, do what is right as to work with debtors. The legislative base of different countries, we analyzed it. There are countries where there are separate laws, countries where there is no relevant legislation. At the same time, in Ukraine, we consider it to be a committee, which would be right for everyone to understand a law that literally states what they can and cannot do to collectors. And we also invited representatives of the debtors who are actually suffering from those black collectors that have already been mentioned to us. They noted that they expect increased criminal responsibility for violations of citizens’ rights, and this is relevant. Indeed, there are even suicides, and that is a real fact, but the actual intent of the company today cannot be proved in court. We also invited bankers who made their proposals. And our committee, understanding the delicateness of this issue and understanding its importance, will propose to create further discussions that will necessarily take into account all the suggestions made by all the steakholders of this process. Thank you very much. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, there was an offer to adopt this bill in the first reading without discussion. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Debtors in Collecting Activities (Registration No. 2133). Please take your seats, I'll put you to a vote. Dear colleagues, while our fellow national deputies meet there are three other decrees, draft decrees, changes in the composition of the interim commission of inquiry, they're given to you, two. And one is a draft decree to ensure the implementation of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Let's look at them too, it'll be there very soon. Ready to vote in 2133? I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on the Protection of the Rights and Legal Interests of Debtors in Collecting Activities (registration - 2133). Please support and vote. [[18:06:02]] For 309 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft regulation on changes in the composition of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate information on compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is resisted. — Registration No. 2324. Can we take it without talking? I'm betting on a motion for adoption in the entire project. Please support and vote. [[18:06:55]] For 263 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is not affected" (register No. 2434). Dear colleagues, let's not discuss this, we don't have much time. [[B in m in s a l in]] Change in composition? Let me give you a motive and Heroshenko, nobody insists anymore. Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, a minute, with motives. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, Nestor Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] You insist. Okay, short procedure and two of the motives: Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich and Heratschenko. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please support and vote. [[18:08:13]] For 233 Decision taken. A suffrage minute with a motive. Nestor Ivanovich, two minutes, please. But the time has passed. We'll be able to vote, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u74	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, for giving me the opportunity in a cut version according to the procedure to get the word. Because "for-two and against-two" won't be able to speak right now, only two national MPs. Mrs. Irina, and thank you for giving me the opportunity to approach the rostrum. Dear colleagues, the work of this commission of inquiry in general is absurd. The government, the majority, initiated the commission of inquiry. To be honest, it's not on my head. Okay, we've made four powerful attempts to assemble this commission of inquiry. The first time they waited about half an hour for an organizational meeting, they finally got together. The second thing I did was, frankly, I'm here to meet you in the lower room, but I've had it in a closed mode. And when we shut it down, we heard from the CBS that the information is closed and we're not authorized to get it. Unfortunately, one of the meetings was postponed and cancelled an hour before the beginning. And the fourth wasn't due to the quorum, so we waited 29 minutes for the national MPs to come. Today, unfortunately, I have to say that there is a desire to repress the channels. And considering that the issue of advertising, the impact on media space has been raised all the time, I have a suspicion that it is in the interests of a separate channel, whose former employees, three, are members of the commission of inquiry and after these changes remain members of the commission of inquiry. Therefore, I consider the work of this commission of inquiry to be unobjective, involved, and exclusively used for illicit commercial purposes. That's why we're against any changes today and against the work of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u75	Thank you, Nestor Ivanovich. I think once the composition changes, it's going to be even better work and faster. Irina Volodymyrna's character. And please invite the people's deputies, and then we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, which opposition to the information campaigns of the Russian Federation can be talked about when journalists of the "Star" TV channel go to Maidan today? I want to remind you that the founder of the Star Channel is the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation, the official Armed Forces of which are now fighting on the Donbassa, who have captured Crimea. And, excuse me, when we're reading today the Ukrainian Security Service statement that says, well, they're not in violation of Ukrainian legislation yet, we're following them. And at this time, the propagandist girl, not the journalist, is putting her photos in Instagram with the fighters, what kind of opposition are we talking about? "Serves," aren't you ashamed? We're asking the Ukrainian Security Service to close the borders for Russian propagandists, there's no journalists there, it's propaganda that paints the Ukrainian Armed Forces as punishments that showed our soldiers, torture them. What are you talking about, which TSK do you create if you open Ukrainian borders for Russian propagandists? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u77	Let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. I am voting for a motion for adoption in the whole of the draft Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the Establishment of an Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate compliance with the requirements of legislation when changing the owners of information channels and to ensure that the information influence of the Russian Federation is resisted. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[18:12:53]] For 256 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, if I may now make a decision to ensure the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the area of social protection of the population, the registration number. What, you insist on voting? On the show? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. That's how I put this question to the vote, and you've been handed out. We're on our way, we're on our way, two minutes. We'll make it. Dear colleagues, she is. the deviation stands, the committee's proposal is to reject. [[B in m in s a l in]] You have regulations. When you took 30 minutes, you needed a rule! Yes, I understand that. And if we change the chairman, can he continue for 15 minutes under the Rules? Yeah. There is no such thing in the Rules. Ruslan Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, on the rights vested in article 28 of the Rules, I continue as chairman for another 15 minutes. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the draft Ordinance on the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the area of social protection is under consideration. There is a proposal to vote on the reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[6:14:42]] For 237 Decision taken. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to the reporter - national deputy of Ukraine, Suffrich Nestor Ivanovich. Please, Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u79	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-12-12-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, 18:15. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. As Ruslan Alexiyovich says, do not forget your card. Good evening!
