ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration. So, colleagues, please take your jobs and get ready for registration. You're ready, aren't you? I'd like you to sign up. [[10:03:28]] 344 national deputies registered. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! The European Parliament adopted a resolution depriving Russia of the EU's strategic partner status. Ukraine welcomes this decision. In its decision, the European Parliament made it clear that sanctions should be extended. The threats posed by Russian disinformation and the North Stream 2 project are condemned, Russian money-laundering operations are condemned, and Russian aggression in the Black Sea and in the Azov Sea is once again condemned. Ukraine welcomes this decision because the Putinian Russia, an aggressor country, cannot be a strategic partner of a free and honest Europe. The House of Representatives of the United States also approved a draft law on the non - recognition of the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over Crimea. Thus, our American allies at the legislative level have established a non-recognizance of the annexation of Crimea. We highly appreciate the principle and consistent support of Ukraine’s allies in the antiputinian coalition. Together, we will win! Welcome to our partners' decisions. And, colleagues, I would like to remind you that on Wednesday, 30 minutes for speeches by national MPs, not by factions and groups, but only by national MPs. I ask everyone who intends to take part in the discussion to sign up. Please turn on the record. Gulak Alexander gives the floor to Igor Mosiyczuk. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u2	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! What was published two days ago by investigative journalists when law enforcement officials, and primarily the newly created anti-corruption law enforcement agencies, covered the robbery in the Ucrobanprom, is one thing: that there is no parliamentary control over the entire branch of the law enforcement system. A parallel law enforcement system designed to fight corruption. In fact, as it turns out, no one is fighting any corruption, but the facts of the robbery, the facts of the blood trade that took place in the Ucrobanprom system. What do you want to do? It is very simple: Parliament must assume responsibility and adopt a decision to conduct an immediate audit of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. The State Bureau of Investigation is to investigate and report to society and parliament as soon as possible on the NABU officials involved in these corrupt devices, and Parliament is to restore immediate control over all the country’s law enforcement system. It is unacceptable when there is a law enforcement body in an independent country that is controlled by foreign representatives, which is controlled by anyone other than the Ukrainian State. At the same time, there's a situation where a scandal, a wild scandal about the theft of Ucrobanproms, is diverted, including society, from other challenges, such as the high price of gas, the Kobolev Prize. Why is NAB not involved in these activities? They are distracted by the so - called medical reform that shuts down thousands of medical facilities. This is unacceptable, and we have to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, in fact, the events of the last days, when you and I see how journalistic investigations are asking us a lot of questions, they're asking Parliament a lot of questions. We see that Parliament is not capable of responding to sufficiently complex challenges today, and we have left ourselves in five years without instruments of influence and control over other authorities and responding to events that might be clearly marked by Parliament today, or whether it's really corruption, or how we fight corruption, or how we fail to deal with corruption. What am I talking about? We have neither made nor voted against the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. Today, Parliament has no capacity to exercise its constitutional function of control. What did this lead to? This led to the fact that today, when journalistic investigations indicate that none of the law enforcement structures can respond to large-scale corruption, Parliament has been left without significant influence on such events. The other one. We have not yet passed the Opposition Act, we have not given any functions of opposition that could control what is happening in the country today. We have not allowed the opposition to monitor how most parliamentary people today have actually turned away from taking a more active role in the fight against corruption. This is our mistake, and this is our problem -- the opposition has remained lawless, without any means of influence. Nor did we make the Law on impeachment; we did not allow today to function normally in a system of restraints and opposites. These are the laws that Parliament should adopt in this chamber. I don't know how the vote on the Language Act ends, but I am convinced that after this law we need to pass the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry, the Law on the Rights of Opposition in Parliament and the Law on the Possibility of Application of the Constitutional Article on the impeachment of the President. If Parliament wants us to be really one of the branches of power, if Parliament wants to respond to the challenges we face today, we must ensure that the constitutional functions of Parliament are fulfilled. To that end, we just need to get the bills and vote in this session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u5	Thank you. I'm the only one who can answer Mr. Valeria, all the other people's deputies. At 15 p.m. today, a temporary investigation committee is publicly meeting to investigate the facts of the robbery in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, involving factions, committees, all those who want to. It's open. Do not underestimate the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Parliament, and so many Ukrainian institutions today are discredited. The Ukrainian Parliament needs to be guarded and literate, Mr. Valeria, and I'm sure this is all our joint task. Thank you. Papieuve gives the floor to Nestor Schufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Mr President, I cannot but take note of the Commissioner's reaction to the rights of the European Union, Duni Miyatovic, who urges us to suspend the consideration of the Law on the Functioning of the Ukrainian Language. The Commissioner pointed out the following: that in the pre-election conditions, and this is perceived as a reform, it is not desirable to do so before the elections, but to do so after the elections, and that it is in the same law that it is possible to use Ukrainian as a national language, while at the same time ensuring that other languages have the right to exist and use in Ukraine in accordance with the 10th article of the Constitution. That's a very good question. I heard that this morning they were looking forward to another decision by the European Union, on the principle that "a cow died in the neighbor's house and we have a burning house." We don't notice that. We don't notice that today we have the most disgraceful election campaign. People trade as much as they can, authorities trade as they can. Even names are already traded. I've seen a lot of things, but to get people to sell their names, that's with the chases on their shoulders. I think these pursuits are no longer to be worn on the shoulders, but to be put in one place, because officers and men don't do that. And you know, I'm a complete Nazi Corps antagonist and Nazcorpup's ideology, but what we've witnessed today is clearly a question that deserves a lot of attention. What's Dusty and what's "Nazcorpus"? These are Midan's products. And you know, I'm outraged that Poshenko is now threatening the Nazcorpup and his leaders with the robbery and the air force. I'll put it this way: Peter Aleksieevich, not "by concept," because, in my opinion, you have to sit down with these guys and answer all the questions. And even though I am, once again, an absolute opponent of the National Corps, I want to point out that the question of looting, the question that these people are raising today, is the right one and is the one that deserves responsibility. And I'm very sorry, stressing once again, having different visions of the situation in Ukraine, I think that Dusty and his surroundings should be responsible for the robbery. 57 billion troops, hundreds of billions of dollars each year we give to our army, and to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u7	30 seconds. Please don't use criminal language. We have already introduced the Ukrainian Language Act, which prohibits the use of criminal muddy language. This is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the congregations of people of questionable reputation. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich. Romanov's passing it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine, I would like to speak to you today on the subject of lost opportunities for Ukraine. What's the area? It is in this area, which last year has become the second in the world at a rate of growth, and in a few years, it will be the first, the tourism industry that could bring tens of billions of dollars to Ukraine's economy in a weak country. Why do we now talk so much about tourism, while tourism in the country's GDP is at least 2 percent, when in all European countries more than 10 percent? Because tourism was to be referred to as the Ukrainian tourism industry, there was something else to be done. First. What does it take? Political will. You don't have to say "rest in Ukraine," but you have to go to the Maldives alone. We need to have a good strategy and carry out it all the time. Tax reform in the tourism industry should be carried out immediately. Did you know that in all countries of the European Union there is a reduced VAT on hospitality businesses: hotels, transportation. If we say that Ukraine is Europe, then taxes should be European. If we are in a globalized society and Euro-integration structure, there will be no tourists in Ukraine, no investors willing to invest in the hotel. Why? Because in neighbouring Poland, even VAT at the hotel is 8 percent and in Ukraine it is 20 percent. In terms of tourism, in the new Tax Code we have adopted it, which is now at some locations, in some district centres it is 7 euros, and in Poland it is the maximum one half euro. So what kind of tourism can we talk about? Add the broken roads here, the price of booking tickets that were introduced by the Crucifixion since January 1st, the Ukrainian visa, which is twice as expensive as the Schengen visa, and it's much more difficult to get. And the war conflict is what we're going through right now. So what kind of tourism is this? How attractive is Ukraine to foreign tourists? And you know, according to the ratings of the Davos Economic Forum from 136 countries, Ukraine has placed 88 places in attractive tourism and travel. So the Self-Help Union calls on all political parties to sign a memorandum with the tourism industry, which consists of ten absolutely clear actions. This memorandum has already been signed by the Self-Help Union and its leader, Andriy Sadow. And to be competitive in tourism, we all need to unite and meet the Ukrainian tourism industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u9	Thank you. Germany's handing over Husak.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! An active parliament has been working on the last months, and even in these months this Parliament cannot be able to do something useful for the country and for the people. We see that, in fact, before the presidential elections, Parliament has been blocked by a completely unnecessary, completely politicized bill on Ukrainian language, whose main purpose is solely to justify the pre-election campaign of the President-in-Office of Faith. Army. Language." I want to refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to the deputies of the Supreme Council on the point that we have to do what should benefit Ukraine and its citizens. Yuri Boyk's team has submitted two bills to Parliament. The first bill on the establishment of a normal price for gas. Another bill is about write-offs on municipal payments to Ukrainian citizens. None of these bills are put into the hall. None of the bills relating to the establishment of peace in Ukraine are put into this room. Yet again, we are discussing a language that is completely out of time. No one is going to attack our Ukrainian language, and no one needs to protect it from it right now, it's absolutely not a matter of time. Taking advantage of the opportunity and the fact that I am in the high parliamentary rostrum, I would like to address representatives of all the presidential candidate headquarters who are not technical candidates from Peter Alexiyovich. Not to be a political pianist, all candidates need to unite around not to let Peter Alexiyovich fabricate in the first round. We need to make the first round truly fair elections, so that people can vote for the candidate they want, not those big forgeries and bribes that are being prepared by the President's headquarters. I want to go to the heads of the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and to the simple staff of these bodies, not to engage in political repression. I can report that there are now so-called investigative actions in Odessa regarding the head of the election headquarters of President Yuri Anatoliyovich Boyka in the Kyiv district of Odessa, Viktor Sergiyovich. The sole fault of this citizen is his political position, is that he is, indeed, a opposing politician to the active authority, and is that he is the head of the election headquarters of President Boyko's candidate. I want to address the entire room, the Ukrainian people. There are literally a few weeks left of this power, we have to change the country for the better, we have to restore normal movement, peace and development in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u11	Sauka Ivan Ivanovich gives the floor to Andrew Teteruk. Please, Mr. Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u12	Good afternoon, everyone! Dear Mr. Head, fellow national MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! Since December 2018, the People's Front faction has called for a temporary commission of inquiry by our Parliament to investigate the intervention of the Russian Federation in the internal political electoral processes of our state. Unfortunately, we see some indecision from our fellow national MPs, except for the Self-Help faction, which has already put forward a candidate for this TSC. We also saw the desire of our partners in the Peter Prashenko Coalition, yesterday was the call to investigate, let's say, the unfair electoral process, let's say, certain presidential candidates. So once again, we call for the unification of all our efforts so that in one TSC we can start to look at the intervention of the Russian Federation, the representatives of the Russian Federation, the godfather Putin in particular into the informational, political process that is currently taking place in Ukraine. Because it is through direct intervention by the Russian Federation that we have manipulations, fairy tales, throws, financing certain processes in Ukraine for the destruction of our population, to destabilize the political processes in our country. Therefore, it would be appropriate to consider first the intervention of the Russian Federation in Ukraine’s internal affairs. Secondly, is it not the Russian Federation's influence on the pre-election campaigns of certain candidates in the Ukrainian Presidents? And I think that the determination that certain candidates or political forces are calling for the creation of the TSC should come at the very heart of sending their representatives from the political forces to the TSC, which requires the creation of the People's Front. And as for certain opponents who are calling for honor, but who are used to using fans in the walls of parliament, I want to say that your efforts to destroy society will lead to nothing but your defeat. As you have oppressed, corrupted, and destroyed our country, you will not be allowed to do so again. So stop your foolish attempts and do what a national MP is supposed to do — not ruin. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Rybczyn Aleksei Mihajlovich is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u14	Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. Today, the fifth anniversary of the event in Donetsk, when the Ukrainian rally killed the Hero of Ukraine, Dmitry Cherniavski. The Freeman became the first victim of the Russian-Ukrainian war on Donbas. Five years later, I and many people remember that day as it was yesterday. I'll remind my colleagues and Ukrainians that five years ago, when the end of the Dignity Revolution in Kiev bankrupted the Donetsk authorities, business elites and the Kremlin decided to stage anti-Ukrainian protests in Donetsk, the simple daughters were responsible and protected their little Fatherland: they went out to multi-millionthous rallys, they created chains of connections, they created and went out, yes, begging from all confessions for the only Ukraine. The Donetsks fought for their Ukrainian Donetsk. And our goal then was to show the world that Donetsk is Ukraine. And the Ukrainian opposition to the Russian occupation in Donetsk, especially the one that did the pro-Ukrainian activists, needs a fair assessment and a place in the history books. In five years, no accomplices to crime against territorial integrity in the Donetsk and Lugansk region have been punished: neither oligarchs nor mayoral separatists nor petty accomplices to attacks. In the Supreme Council, there are still dead loads of bills that are appropriate, as are cases of secessionist mayors and others in the BSS. We have to admit that Ukrainian politicians, in their majority, have pretended that they don't understand that internally displaced persons from the "temporary" category have already become the "always" category, and this recognition requires political courage. And that means we have to take the real Ukrainian community of our settlers -- give them the right to vote in local elections and in majority districts. By the way, I urge everyone to register for the election of the President of Ukraine, that is five minutes of time, and your vote should go back to the candidate you choose. There are great claims to executive power. Minsoc failed the policy of reintegrating the displaced, paying them pensions and benefits, and this was noted in the decree on the release of the Minister of Reva. There is a question about the activities of the Ministry of Occupied Territories, whose leaders are more involved in writing patriotic posts and participating in television than in actual work. Nor should we pretend that in the occupied territory of Donetskina and Lugansk there are no deserving Ukrainian citizens who do not need our communication, support, and systematic information policy. I hope that the new leadership of the State will propose new strategies for the reintegration of Ukraine's territories, the integration of people. But we need to put in place a plan for the future for occupied territories, which would not be for our Western partners or our Eastern neighbours, but for Ukraine's national interests. I want to say that from those people who were forced to stay in that territory, the Russian Federation and its media are regularly speculating, depicting the terrible images of the future occupied territories in case the Ukrainian authorities return. We need to change that, and we need to at least repair roads in the Donetsk and Lugansk region and set up normal checkpoints. Please add 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u15	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u16	Donetsk and Lugansk are Ukraine. Crime is Ukraine, both occupied and annexed, as is Donetsk and Lugansk. And there can be no compromises or conjunctural decisions regarding the abandonment of our land and our citizens. Our main enemy is the Russian invader. And everything else is derived from its activities in Ukraine. I ask respectable colleagues and Ukrainians to mention the memory of the Hero of Ukraine, Dmitry of Cherniavsky, and all Ukrainians from Donetsk, Lugansk, and Crimea who died during this war.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u17	I declare a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Nechayev Alexander Igorovich. Nechayev Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u18	German, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u19	Please. Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Citizens of Ukraine! Today, Wednesday, the bill on the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language should continue to be considered. So I want to inform you that today we see one third of the House of Parliament. It's for everyone to know what's behind it. To make everyone understand that not the languages are needed or not the language here is the question, but the question is the process of manipulative character in relation to the electoral system. And I think it's to put out the mayhem and the thunderstorm from all the problems that have arisen in Ukraine today and are associated with that failure, with that decay of power, and what it has led the people of Ukraine to do, and this is exactly what they've come up with, to consider such an important issue. It's a question of whether or not to be. I want to report and say that what we see, "The Opposition Platform for Life," is that the fact that this decision is made, and even more so the content of the bill, points to the issue that it is not the nationality of the Ukrainian language. The Constitution clearly states in article 10 in part one, part two, that it is national. The Ukrainian language is a national language – everything. And the bill offers us: Ukrainian as a national language. I'd like the philosophers to work and this consonant "how" to define what it is, what it is from the point of view of etymology, of understanding the state language. This time. And the second. I want our compatriots to know that this is where the question is going, this bill is about what the legislative level is to put on the platform, on the altar of Ukrainian chauvinism over other languages in Ukraine. And that carries the burden of discrediting the Ukrainian language -- that's what this is about, discrediting it, not anchoring it as an independent and free language. And the third. I would like the people of Ukraine to understand, too, that there is a question of discredit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u21	30 seconds. We're done, aren't we? Colleagues, just so there's no debate, there's two more speeches. Please, the first one is Bubble, the second one is Matvienkov. The Bible renders the word to the Head of Michael, and Matthew passes it on to Doubenkov. Two speeches -- and we're finishing the speeches by the National Deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u22	Mikhailo Golovko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolish. Today, the fifth anniversary of the death of our freeman, Dmitr Czerniewski, who was killed by separatists in Donetsk. And I have a question: What, five years later, do all the patriots in Ukraine who gave their lives on the Maidan put their lives in the east of Ukraine, protecting our nation? Because they believed that Ukraine would become another after the Yanukovich regime, that we would have a just state where there would be no corruption that would devour our country from the inside. What did we see? We have seen that the extent of corruption today frightens all of us, that it is a corruption that is now practically covered by the highest leadership of the state that affects its immediate surroundings of the President and his trusted people. And instead of seeing the actions of law enforcement agencies that are supposed to plant, catch, punish these criminals, the marauders, the traitors, I stress, because it's not just the corrupts who are profiting from the army, because the Ukrainians are going to help the volunteers, help our troops, and they're making money on blood. So what do we hear from law enforcement? It turns out they're not going to plant criminals, but now they're going to hunt down journalists who exposed this information. That's the main problem! It turns out it's not corruption, it's journalists who show where corruption is. So it's shameful, my friends, that our law enforcement agencies today are so deaf, blind, that they don't see the corruption that destroys our nation from the inside. I recently received a report from the State Audit Service, which saw the extent of corruption in structures such as Naftogaz NAC and Ukrattransgas, a subsidiary. It turns out that in recent years, the damage to Ukrattransgas, a subsidiary of NAC Naftogazu, has reached more than 50 billion. Today they have been shown to have stolen and have lost 8 billion cubic feet [8 billion cubic metres] of gas. And instead, we see the impotent, powerless government of Groysman, who's hand-bending, and they can't free corruptioner Kobolev. I appealed to the law enforcement authorities to bring this corrupter to justice. They don't see the crime scene, nobody's breaking the case. Instead, we saw the size of wages -- 342 million dollars a year's salary for Koboljev. Is that not marauding? Isn't that a crime? When Ukrainians outside the poverty line almost 70 percent, when they raised the price of gas seven times, they robbed and bankrupted state companies, they gave them damages, and they write off their space premiums, that's called, in fact, the occupied state, when it's occupied by corrupters, it's occupied by marauders, and criminals who carry high-powered people don't see it, they're covered up because power is one thing. I don't talk to them because I know they won't do anything, but we have to do it fast. and the Ukrainian people who have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u23	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u24	which should change this power, which should eventually change this country. And so I urge you today to support Ruslan Kosulinski's presidential candidate from the United Forces of Nationalists, who, as a true nationalist soldier, will be able to clear all this corruption from our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u25	And the closing statement is Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u26	Alexander Dudenkov's Opposition Block. Dear citizens of Ukraine, you are now listening to statements by representatives of many factions, including coalition factions, and now non-fractional MPs, who are ideally with coalition representatives, who are going to vote on language laws at one time, and talk about what is currently going on in large-scale corruption throughout the country, making in fact money on blood. What should be the conclusion? I'm not saying that the previous power was perfect, I'm not saying that they were holy, but in any case, no one's ever made money in blood before. There is now a very dangerous period of Ukrainian state-building, as coalition officials say. If the next five years are to take place, I fear that we will lose Ukraine. What kind of Ukraine do we want to see? Look at this: no aircraft since the 15th year has been made, we're buying French helicopters when we have a domestic enterprise; we're buying and importing American heat. Just think, the results of 2018 were that coal was imported into the amount of $3 billion. We don't want to trade with Russia, but somehow we're getting Russian natural gas. We're talking about getting European gas, but we're getting it through Germany and Switzerland by 3 billion cubic meters of gas. What, the gas is already being extracted in Switzerland and Germany? You're buying the three-way through European middlemen the same Russian gas and you're doing blasphemy, and you're talking about stopping trade relations, you're the Pharisees. When we're talking about the opposition block, the relationship-building, the fact that this might actually be a real plan for lowering tariffs for the population by natural gas because of lowering the purchase of natural gas prices on the eastern border, we're telling the truth, we're not doing the distorting of facts. As for distractions, I don't think you'll be able to distract the Ukrainian people with this language issue. Just think, if you don't listen to the idea of "The Opposition Block," listen to the representatives of the European Union. They say it's premature! Do not manipulate the language in the campaign, do not go to Peter Alexiyovich Dustyenko to implement it. One of his presidential presidential slogans! Surrender! Do not break society apart, for the language issue will disunite and not unite Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u27	Thank you, colleagues. Language unites, language in time! We've finished speaking to the National Deputies. And now we have only one statement from the factions today, from the faction of the Opposition Block and the Rebirth -- and they're willing to replace it. And after that, we're going to look at the rights. I ask you to prepare for both the head of the committee and the right-wing authors. From two factions to the performance, Igor Schufrich is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u28	If I'm Igor Schufrich, then you're Andrew Heratchenko!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u29	Ouch! Shurma! Excuse me, Igor Shurma! You don't have to be offended.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u30	Thank you, Mr. Andrey Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u31	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u32	So I'll tell you what unprofessionals and disgruntled officials do about the documents that unite the hall. There was Law 4074, which was signed by all the factions, all the members of the committee, and it involved amending and supplementing part of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. He sought to open access to the results of pre-clinical study and clinical trials by excluding the commercial conference character that is prohibited, in order to combat corruption and to make it clear that not all the crap that is going on in Ukraine today can be used in treating people. They passed this law in September, and the End Positions said, "The Cabinet of Ministers develop a position that would allow this law to be implemented." Responsible is the Ministry of Health. Their effectiveness following the introduction of this bill was that of the so - called “saints. ” The Suprun has only been told that they are behind the introduction of this bill. We had to take the form to put official documents on the website for doclonal study and clinical trials. Nothing has been done today. A person with a degree after a medical school in Michigan, true, college, a person with a passport from a citizen of the United States of Ukraine, well, she doesn't respect the opposition forces, but the document was signed, bill, Dr. Bogholec, Dr. Jarinic, Dr. Musei and all who are not doctors. Well, it's your European coalition that you're protecting, it's balling. Instead of developing the form, they propose to make changes and additions to the state registration order today, but not in form, and they propose to set the security order, they introduce the new norm, and the order itself is gone again. Again, people will not be able to use data on clinical trials and trials. Once again, this proves that you are not counted and that you are no one. We don't need an education today, we need the support of the Prime Minister, the President of Ukraine, excuse me, Andry Volodymyrovich, your support. And then those bills that became laws and were voted here, they wouldn't be implemented. One more time: ensure that the law is implemented. Peter Alexiyovich, I address you!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u33	30 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u34	Peter Alexiyovich, I address you. You're going to the election. So the Cabinet of Ministers is doing everything you can to go with the slogan, "It's cancer. They're all going to die!" They don't release them, they don't introduce laws that are voted here. They, these ignorant ones, are trampling on the higher legislature. You don't stand a chance in this election with people like that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u35	Thank you. So we're continuing, colleagues, the review of the draft Law on the Functioning of Ukrainian as a State Language (No. 5670-d). And I invite the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princely Nikola Leonidovich to the rostrum. We finished 120 yesterday. But I got a call from Deputy Rybchin, 115 revisions, and she was literally looking at it before, and he says he didn't call it. And that's why we're going to start with 115, and then we're going to go straight to 121. I ask you to prepare all the authors for discussion, for work. And first, I invite you to the word Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Alexy Rybchin, "Fatherland" faction, Donetsk. My bill relates to the proposal to take into account in the language law the provision to facilitate the learning of Ukrainian language by Ukrainian citizens who live in temporarily occupied areas of Ukraine and to integrate them into Ukrainian language space. Sadly, we well know that both Crimea and Donetsk do not have enough instruction in Ukrainian language. It's out there somewhere, but it's not enough for kids who are growing up there and then going to Ukrainian universities, or for people who are moving here and applying for positions, to have enough skills to communicate freely in Ukrainian. It seems to me that this bill should help and send a signal that the Ukrainian authorities understand the problems, the temporary problems in the occupied territories and will contribute to the reintegration of these people into the Ukrainian language space. If this has been taken into account, please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear fellow Rybchin, this amendment here, it was rejected because it really relates to promoting the learning of Ukrainian in the temporarily occupied territories, but the norms for the temporarily occupied territories are temporary in nature, and therefore they should be contained not in this place, but in the Transitional Positions, that is, not in the body of the law, but in the Transitional Positions, because we understand that we will release these territories. And in "Transitional positions," the corresponding paragraph is added with the discovery of a system of measures that are aimed at its implementation. So essentially your revision is counted, it's just included in the Transitional Positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u38	Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. So 121-a doesn't insist on the author. 122nd, Sevrukov. He insists. 123rd, 126th, 127th. 125th, Oksana Bilozer. Please. Yes, Bilozer, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u39	Thank you, thank you. My rights are taken into account, and these are a few rights both for Lesyuk and for Kiskar, and I thank you for having taken them into account, because rightly, Ukrainian language is a constitutional norm, and Ukrainian citizenship is governed by another right enshrined in our legislation. But I would like now not to have a discussion about the Ukrainian language: unity or not unity. I want to tell you that this is a constitutional norm -- Ukrainian -- once. Secondly, we today, by law, are developing the functions and importance of Ukrainian language, its functioning and application in Ukrainian society. And I'd like to say that Ukrainian language is an attribute of independence, and it has functions just like Flag, Herb, Himmn. And it has three functions: one function is to combine everything in the Ukrainian community; the second function is to combine different dialectic groups, national minorities into one single community, the Ukrainian people; and the third function is to reflect.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u40	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u41	And the third function is to reflect outside, which is our identity, which we're fighting for today, including. So I ask you not to discuss this subject and not to be parasitic about it. We are going the right way, and this is the path that the Ukrainian people have chosen, and our President, Peter Poroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u42	Do you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u43	No, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u44	Yeah. 127th, Branzovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I propose the following title: "The duty of the State to provide every citizen with the opportunity to speak the national language." Both the title and the content of the 1st article, the 4th, are formal absurdities, because neither the Constitution nor the Citizenship Act nor any other legislative instrument provide such an obligation. Such a duty is laid down only for those who acquire Ukrainian citizenship for those who become citizens at birth and cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u46	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u47	Dear colleague Branzovich, your claim has been rejected because, yes, this law imposes a citizen’s duty to speak the language. The Constitution, as you know, does not provide a comprehensive list of all obligations when it comes to citizens. The complete list applies only to officials. Thus, the law imposes an obligation to know the language. At the same time, the law imposes an obligation on the State to ensure that it can be studied, and this obligation is laid down in article 5 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u48	Do you insist on voting? So I'm betting on a vote of 127. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:51:01]] For-23 The decision is not taken. 128th. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Nestor Schufrich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I would like to point out once again that, in circumstances where we can accept and are obliged to adopt very important questions about ensuring the standard of living of our citizens, we continue to consider today, despite seeing the Commissioner for Human Rights Duni Miyatovich, a law that should be properly considered after the presidential elections. This, by the way, is a requirement today for the leaders of the European Union. So when the European Union makes a decision that the Ukrainian authorities like, we applaud. And the decisions that you don't like, we're like in that movie, "The fish was turned over here." Or something else. And about the repair. I insist that we put to the vote the very title "Right to the Language." Because the Constitution does not lay down the obligation to know language, but it does provide for exclusive law. Let us conform the corresponding novels of this law to the rules of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u51	Dear Mr. Nestore, first of all, I want to say that the information that some leaders of European countries have asked to transfer this in connection with the elections is little that does not correspond to reality, but is absurd. Are we not asking the German leadership to postpone the consideration of some law in connection with the elections in Germany? With regard to the claim made by Duni Mijatovic, this is a statement made by the Council of Europe, not the European Union. It was that official who, while working in the OSCE, condemned us for stopping the broadcast of Russian channels at a time when Russian tanks were already occupying Crimea and when Russian troops entered Donetsk and Lugansk! For this reason, let us build ourselves up, to defend our nation honestly. I would like to say a little bit about the previous statements that were here, that this law I am asking you not to politicize. Yes, I would like to thank Peter Prashenko and his factions for the state's position, Arsen Yatsenuk and the People's Front for the state's position, Julius Timoshenko and Fatherland for the state's position, Sadov, Berezuk and Self-Help, the People's Will Group, the Freedom Party, for everyone who thinks that the law is the law. The National Movement of Ukraine is everyone who believes that the Law on State Language should be adopted. With regard to correction that is rejected, article.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u52	So 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u53	An article can't be called "Right to a Language," because there's no such right at all. The language itself is not subject to rights and obligations, but the use and application of it can be regulated, and the law may lay down the responsibility to speak and use the language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u54	So I'm voting on Amendment 128. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[10:54:11]] For-35 The decision is not taken. 129th. He insists, doesn't he? Please, Branzovich, 129th, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose that the first part of article 4 be deleted. Ukraine’s Constitution does not provide for such a duty of a citizen, nor should it impose responsibility for failing to do so. Dear Mr. Princely, tell me, I have an aunt in my village. She'll be 100 years old soon. She was born in Austria-Hungary, went to a school in the Czechoslovak Republic, worked in the Soviet Union, is now receiving a pension in Ukraine. She doesn't speak Ukrainian. How are you going to command her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u56	Please, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u57	Thank you. I'll tell you that my great-grandfather lived in Austria-Hungary, studied Polish, fought for different countries. And what's more, here most of the people sitting in this room, most of the MPs lived in different empires that destroyed the Ukrainian language, and our goal was to develop it. Obviously, the law does not provide for any punishment, and the law guarantees and creates conditions for those who want to learn the language to learn it. As far as you are concerned, the Constitution does not contain a comprehensive list of obligations, as I have told you. In accordance with article 10 of the Constitution, the use of languages is governed by law. Therefore, the absence of a language requirement in the Constitution cannot be a reason for not including a corresponding obligation in the law. With regard to responsibility for failure to do so, there is no need for sanctions. The state of self - discretion sets out measures of conformity based on the level of social danger. Hence, the absence of a criminal, administrative, or other responsibility for not knowing the language by your grandmother or other friends does not conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u58	Thank you. I'm voting on Amendment 129. It's rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, I ask you to vote. [[10:56:26]] For-23 The decision is not made. 130 straight, Lesjuk Jaroslav. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back to 123rd. We changed the name of the partition. I mean, "Ukrainian language and Ukrainian citizenship" instead of, as before, "Ukrainian language is the language of Ukrainian citizenship." So what we're saying is that this is the very term "civility" is nonsensical. Then why do we take (return to 130) in the first part of article 4 the words "as the language of our citizenship" we leave. Once again, Ukrainian is not a language of citizenship, it is a national language, and it is a proper, free government that is one of the requirements of citizenship. Such a position should be reflected in the text of the law. "Language of citizenship" is a ridiculous term, you don't have to invent what's not in legislation, in principle. What's more, you're contradicting yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Jaroslave, the thesis that the national language is a language of Ukrainian citizenship stems from the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 1999. And as you may recall, the need for such formulations to be preserved by scientists, legal scientists, and law professors insisted on our committee. And because of that, most of the members of the committee have abandoned and rejected your amendment. But I don't mind your amendment being put to the vote. I understand your logic, just in committee discussions, most scientists were against that approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote for 130 amendments. [[10:58:40]] For-38 The correction is being rejected. We're moving on. Next up, 131st. Correction of your respectable colleague Kiskar. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u62	I would like to point out to some of the colleagues who used to speak here that citizenship is more a privilege than a burden to the state. As for the one who does not own and from birth receives citizenship, he will have to serve in the Ukrainian army or surrender to the UN, and he will have to give up the English language, and he will have to communicate in the Ukrainian language. So please, with respect. We already have as a result of the East War and the occupied Crimea. And with regard to a specific amendment, Mr. Mikolo, consider the logic of the process. There's the title of the chapter, there's an appropriate article that has the correct title, and it has to end with the words "state language." Every Ukrainian citizen is obliged to speak the national language. There should be no judgment, either in language or in negotiation or in any other way. And the logic of the bill itself confirms that. Please listen and support, make these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u63	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Kishkar, your claim is similar to that of colleague Lesyuk, and I explained the motivation of the committee that was then. Obviously, I don't mind having this amendment placed in the hall and the room set up with this amendment. As I said, I understood the logic of this amendment and explained why we did not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Colleagues, please report for 131 corrections. [[11:00:33]] For-43 The correction is being rejected. Next up is 132 revisions. Mr. Lesjuk, please. Mr. Jaroslave, 132 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u66	It's the same thing, he already said, it's the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u67	The chairman of the committee indicates that this amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u68	I'm asking you again. Mr. Mikolo, why do you say that the decision of the Constitutional Court has such a term as "language of citizenship." Where did you get this? Why do you have to swap ideas and stuff like that? You're told there's one logic. I understand that you will stand up, and you have the right to stand up for your position, but why put the hall in a lie? There is no term in the Constitutional Court's decision as "the language of citizenship."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u69	Dear colleague Lesjuk! I said that according to the committee, the thesis that the national language is a language of citizenship stems from the decision of the Constitutional Court in 1999. As I said, I don't mind your amendment being put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u70	Please identify yourself on this amendment. [[11:02:07]] For-39 The correction is being rejected. The next is 133 amendments, national deputy Shufrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u71	Mr. Mikolo, I'm asking you not to mention the powder name. Because once again, I'm thinking of a conflict with Nazcorpus, between Dusty and Midan activists. What is it? Today, we have a painting, and I encourage Dusty to read Gogol, which is "Taras Bulbu," his famous words, "I gave birth to you, I'll kill you." Well, I'm absolutely convinced that both Dusty and Nazcorpus as Midan's food have.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Nestor Ivanovich, I ask your correction to tell us. Nazcorpus will tell us about Nazcorpus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u73	Thank you, Madam Chairman. But let Dusty remember that Majdan gave birth to him, and he will kill him. And about the repair. We ask that we respond and that this be in line with the 10th article of the Constitution, which is the case in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u74	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm going to pay attention to this moment: a minute is given to present the amendment, then the amendment is not enough time, this minute, because 50 seconds is devoted to political information. I very much ask you to follow the rules and follow your fine amendments so that we can hear their contents. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u75	Thank you. This amendment was rejected, for if it was adopted, it would virtually fall out of the law of every citizen’s duty to speak the national language. Instead, there will be a rule on the right of linguistic self - determination. But it should be noted that this law does not deny a right that cannot be established directly in this law. Language self - determination should be revealed in a separate law, and we talk about it in article 2 of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u76	Thank you. I ask to be determined by the amendment of 133 national deputies Shufrich and Germany. [[11:04:43]] For 20 Because the substance of the amendment may not have been understood, so there might have been 21 voices. The next amendment is 134. Please, National Deputy Musei, you have a microphone. Musi is now 134th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u77	Good day, the honourable chairman, the honourable head of the committee, and this is accompanied by two rights: the national deputy Lesyuk and Kiskar. As an argument and support for this amendment, please listen and still vote at the very end -- and remove this "civility language." Well, imagine the example of life. We have so-called foreigners who are citizens of Georgia, citizens of the United States and someone else, and they have two citizens. How do you write that Uljana Suprun, a government official who is a U.S. citizen, will speak in what language? It's going to touch us all later, that the language of her citizenship, the U.S., is English, not English. As a civil servant. So this readjustment puts us in such a colossal state that we're going to scratch. Why do we provoke? Whether Mr. Colomoysky is three citizens, he will also speak in Hebrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u78	Thank you for your clarification. Dear Mrs. Cervakov, we have no discussion of the rights, the author presented his amendment. Please, the chairman of the committee will comment on why it has been rejected and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Musi, I would like to remind you of the position of part one of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in which the Ukrainian language is the national language. It must be understood that Ukrainian language is a national language that is a compulsory means of communicating throughout Ukraine in the exercise of authority by government authorities and local authorities. It is the language of acts, jobs, businesses, documentation, and other public spheres of social life that are defined by law. Part five of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine speaks of this. This implies that Ukrainian citizens must speak this language in order to function perfectly in our country. In the case of foreign citizens, the law clearly states in all your articles that there is a duty regardless of what nationality is, if you want to hold a position, you should pass an appropriate examination or examination if you have not studied the Ukrainian language. Without it, you won't be able to function, work as a minister, or any other government office. Hence, this law is fully regulated in other articles. Nevertheless, I want to tell you that when we vote in favour of the law as a whole, we are ready to discuss this proposal again as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u80	Thank you very much for your clarification. Do you insist on voting? You insist. Please vote in favour of the amendment of Musia, the National MP. [[11:07:46]] For 20 20-yes. The correction is being rejected. Next up, 137. Please, Mrs. Hopko. 136 amendments were included.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear fellows! We see in the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia, which is indignant that Parliament is currently considering an important law to protect the functioning of the Ukrainian language. We see what Moscow will do to undermine the approval of this historic law. We see a "fifth column" in the Supreme Council session hall constantly delaying the consideration of this bill. I'm just wondering why some of the other colleagues who belong to the patriotic camps are starting to stall. I personally think that if we don't pass this law before the first round of presidential elections, which is March 31st, that means that then there will be huge risks, that after the first round there will be less chances of passing this law, because before the first round of politicians, it will be difficult to understand the payout in elections for trying to break this law. My readjustment is taken into account. And I'm willing to give up my other amendments to save time, and so on March 31st, we can finally give Ukraine this debt that we haven't fulfilled. So I ask you not to sabotage everyone, but to work for this law to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u82	Mrs. Hanna, I really support your position. And I ask colleagues if we can move faster in accordance with this law, because we can trap ourselves. We're going to think that we're better off helping someone if we take it later, and then we're not going to be able to adopt that law at all, and we're going to lose everyone: and those who are going out and those who aren't going out and Ukrainian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u83	Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectful colleagues were thus exchanging thoughts. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Let's move on. And the next amendment is 137, People's Deputy Pisarenko. Now we're going to look at Pisarenko's amendment 137, and then we're going to turn on your microphone and you're going to express your position in the microphone, because I can't really hear you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u84	Thank you. Madam Chairman, I would like to point out that this will also be in my subsequent amendments that Parliament can now pass a law in which Ukrainian language acquires more status than today, it remains state, but it will be mandatory in most areas of life. But the law does not state that the State will help its citizens learn the national language for free, free of charge. The State does not take any expense to ensure that those who do not speak English today, or who do not speak English, or who do not know English perfectly, will be obliged to raise their level and learn in courses. Can I have another 30 seconds, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u85	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u86	They will be obliged to study, to raise levels, but we do not know how much it will cost. In my opinion, this is a direct tax on the knowledge of Ukrainian. I very much ask my fellow MPs to understand this and to establish that any learning and learning should be free of charge, at the expense of the state. Thank you. And that's what my 137th amendment is about. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u87	I thank you so much for explaining the correction. And please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u88	Dear colleague Pisarenko, well, first of all, I want to tell you that Ukrainian language is now, even before this law is passed, mandatory in most areas of life that are governed by the Constitution and other laws, as you know. But the committee rejected the amendment because, according to the Constitutional Court’s decision of 2004, free education applied only to the levels of education set out in article 53 of the Constitution. In view of the broader scope of this article, the executive branch should determine for itself what educational services will be provided free of charge and what kind of fees will be paid. So obviously, if you want to know Ukrainian in high school, you have a free right to receive that education, but if you want to make at least academic voluntarily somewhere in a private school, we can't have this higher education obligation to make this level free of charge for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u89	Thank you. I'm asking you to identify 137 amendments, colleagues. [[11:12:39]] For-32 The correction is being rejected. The next amendment is 142, and it's Nestor Schuffric. You have a microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u90	Thank you. Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I am pleased with your assessment of my assessment with my colleague Germany, the National MP, the activities and the assessments of our amendments. It's definitely a hall. And in terms of obstinacy or inadequacy, I would like to point out that no amendment to this law has been taken into account. I mean, we probably have a lot of deputies. And I don't think that's correct. I understand your special treatment of me personally, but let's still respect the national MPs -- your colleagues. And the next. I demand, in accordance with the Rules, that the amendment be approved: 135, 136, 138, 139, 140 and 141, because if this is not done, the constitutionality of the procedure will be questioned. And as for our 142th Amendment, we all have the right to determine the language that we consider to be our own and, of course, our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u91	Please finish, complete 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u92	Everyone knows and uses English.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u93	Dear Madam Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u95	We've already made previous amendments, so we can go back to the confirmation of amendment number one or amendment number two, but still the procedure and the Rules are equal for everyone, and for the opposition block representatives the same. And our goal is to adopt an effective law. As for your amendment, I want to tell you that this is the State Language Act -- it deals exclusively with the issue of the use of national language, as provided for in the Constitution. The Law on State Language cannot deny or disclose the right of every citizen to determine the language that he considers to be his native language, in accordance with the Constitution, regardless of which one is his native language, in the public spheres defined by law, the State language itself should apply, and this law should apply. Let's not force citizens to consider one language a native, well, we're still a democratic country. How can we introduce such dictatorial methods in language legislation at your request? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you now to identify 142 amendments -- this is the amendment made by Nestor Schuffreech and Basil Germany -- which the committee rejected. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard your remark. Now we're voting on your amendment, we're defining it, and then we're voting on the procedure. [[11:15:22]] For-26 The correction is being rejected. Please, Mr. Shufrich's microphone. Attention from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u97	Thank you. Madam Chairman, once again, I would like to stress that the right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to submit to confirmation the amendment that has been taken into account, either edited or partially counted. Amendments from 135 to 141, except 137, were not voted on. And I demanded it. Therefore, I ask these questions, these amendments to the vote for confirmation, otherwise we have to state that this law is adopted with a grave violation of the Rules and has to be annulled by the Constitutional Court procedure, as was repealed by the procedure for the adoption of the previous law. I demanded that 135 amendments be made for confirmation. It wasn't done. And I demand 135-y, 136-y, 138-y, 139-y, 140-y and 141-y. It is my constitutional right to demand that these amendments be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u98	Thank you, Mr. Shufrich. In fact, what I'm saying is that we're now on 142. The amendments you called, we've already passed. I take it as presiding your position that I was disrespectful to your sector, I didn't notice that. If you go to the regulatory committee that it was my fault, I'll take it. We're moving on, I'm going to look at you carefully, so I don't miss any more revisions. Thank you. The next amendment is 143. [[B in m in s a l in]] 143rd? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Now I'm turning on the microphone. 143rd. We're on it. I'm already going through the Rules, and I'm going to listen to you very carefully, looking not only at you, but at the entire hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u99	This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u100	Now. Nestor Ivanovich insists on something there. He's got a microphone. To the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u101	Thank you. I insist on confirming the amendment of 143 People's Deputies of Screepnik. This amendment is taken into account in the committee’s drafting. I believe that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should decide on this amendment, and we must now evaluate this amendment with decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is our right, and in order to ensure absolute transparency and constitutionality of this process, I insist that this issue be considered. I am sorry that my previous demands for confirmation of the amendments I have already mentioned will not be voted on. I believe that this is a grave violation of the Constitution, a gross violation of the Rules, a constitutional process for the adoption of this law, and will certainly become a matter for consideration in the Constitutional Court. Now, if you'll excuse me for confirmation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u102	Thank you. Now, of course, I want to say that we will only move according to the Rules, according to the Constitution, as we go. Now the head of the committee is to present the committee's position here, because this amendment by Mr. Screepnik, if there is an author, we will give him our word, it has been taken into account in the committee's drafting. At the same time, I want to emphasize that we really can't go back to the 1st, the 2nd and so on from any correction. Because then we will be considering every law for a very long time. I admit that the headmaster didn't notice your hand, you didn't raise it high enough, but now we're correcting, we're moving. Please, Mr. Knieżicki, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u103	Thank you, thank you. I would like to read to the Schuffritch College a paragraph of the Rules that, under the insistence of the National Deputies, may be discussed by the Main Committee on the amendment proposal, followed by the next vote on its adoption, its exclusion as a whole, and in order to address the proposal for an amendment to the relevant text, an article of the bill adopted in the first reading, but absent from the proposed Main Committee of the Editorial Committee. That is, according to the Rules, you, Comrade Shufrich, may suggest discussing this amendment. If you want to talk about it, read it, explain what you like about it and what you don't like about it, because in this amendment it's only about listing the stages of education in accordance with the current Education Act, which now exists. I'm willing to listen to your argument that you're not comfortable with this amendment. Please. As required by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor, for explaining the rules of the Rules perfectly. At the same time, Mr. Schufrich has a constitutional and regulatory right to put the matter to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u105	But he has to discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u106	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u107	for according to the Rules he has the right to discuss.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u108	Unfortunately, our Rules allow us to vote on any amendment, to bet on confirmation. And so we have dozens of important laws coming together, what's going on right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u109	Dear Madam Chairman!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u110	Colleagues, I'm forced to put this amendment in charge for confirmation. I'm underlining that the hall supported her. Please be sure. But I also urge colleagues from all factions not to break an important law, not to repeat what was a few years ago, when the law was being broken, language, then because of the beating in parliament, and now it is being broken through by the beating of such a legal and regulatory one. Please be determined. [[11:21:25]] For-79 The amendment is not accepted. And please fix this committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u111	Madam Chairman, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules give the people's deputies the right to propose a discussion. Surprisingly, as chairman of the committee, I was not even able to express my opinion in the essence of this article and the other deputies were able to discuss it. Because if, at the request of Russia and Putin, the enemies of Ukraine are about to destroy the law, and we're going to cover ourselves in mysterious ways by simply destroying it by voting, because not so many people in the hall, because those who don't come are hoping for the honesty, conscience and integrity of those who are present in the hall, then we will turn it into a farce. He has the right to have a discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u112	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleague, we have representatives of the regulatory committee here, and they will confirm that they have the right to vote. As chairman here, I can only urge all Ukrainian national deputies to be on the job so that we have 226 national deputies to vote in favour of this important law. And I'm also very much asking you to fix all the broken modifications so that we can get back to them when we do. Thus, an honourable colleague, this rule permits us to do so. We're moving on. Amendment 145, People's Chamber of Pisarenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we're on our way, not now we're discussing the Rules. 144 amendment, People's Deputies Denisenko. And I give the author my word. You are not the author, Nestor Ivanovich. Please, the author of the word. And I'm asking you to give the author a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, despite all this farce that we now see on the side of the Opposition Block, I'm sure we'll be able to implement this law. And I'm sure there's no crash. I understand that there is now the problem that all the amendments that have been taken into account by the committee will now be taken into account for confirmation in order to delay time. But then we'll still adopt this law. I am grateful to the committee for its support. This bill actually says that every Ukrainian citizen, every citizen, without citizenship, who lives legally in Ukraine, has the right to study Ukrainian. I think it would be absurd on the part of any of the people's deputies to put this amendment on record. Because it is absurd not to allow Ukrainian citizens who are considered by these politicians to study Ukrainian in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Mr. Wadim. The terminology of the amendment is consistent with the Terminology of the Education Act. Part of the language courses licensed by the Minosviti did not enter the committee’s editorial system, since the curriculum is not licensed according to legislation. Thank you for your position. We can move on, I think, to the next correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Next amendment. We're not discussing an amendment! 144 amendments, submitted by the author. Discussion, five deputies cannot take the floor after one amendment. Don't make me break the Rules, that won't happen. Keep insisting, and I will not comply with the requirements and violate the Rules. 145 amendment, Pisarenko People's Deputy. Don't insist. The author presented it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u118	146 amendment, national MP. One hundred forty. What? 149 revisions. What's that? Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u119	First of all, I want to say that we need to adhere to the Rules if we are to reach the end of this law. Once again, my amendment refers to a tax on the national language that the authors are trying to introduce. I'm talking about the state's ability to speak the national language freely to citizens who in the past did not have the capacity to do so by providing free courses in the Ukrainian language, which are provided by Nazcomisi with the standards of the Ukrainian language. And all of this will be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm not talking about middle school or higher education for free right now. It is a matter of law that you want to oblige 42 million of our citizens in almost all areas of life to learn Ukrainian. This is virtually impossible in terms of how not everyone can even afford to pay for courses that we don't know how they're going to happen or how much it's going to cost. But. Can I have 30 more seconds? Your Honour, the presiding officer?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u121	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u122	I want to add that we don't know how these courses are going to be conducted, how much they're going to cost, but we're now taxing on learning Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u123	Thank you. Thank you, Comrade Pisarenko. And once again, I want to say that, you know, I'm the head of the committee standing here and working by the law. The Rules guarantee the MP the right to initiate a discussion of an amendment, and the Chamber may vote in favour. If there are no votes to discuss, we will proceed to the next amendment; if there is, then the room will vote on the amendment. That's what the Rules say. What someone else has done has cost me very little. And so when one, I'm sorry, the messenger of Putin, like a little tart, is going to scare the whole forest and do what he wants, and the country is going to fall apart, what are we, crazy people, we're going to let that happen? With regard to this amendment. I want to say that the Law on State Language regulates the decision, sorry, as decided by the Constitutional Court since 2004. Wait, tell me the number of the amendment again, please. 145th, that's right. The freeness of education applies only to the levels of education set forth in article 53 of the Constitution. And in view of this article, this list is broader, for executive authorities to determine for themselves what educational services will be provided free of charge and what is paid. But we have foreseen in other provisions of the law that the state will create special programs that will finance the need to learn Ukrainian and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u124	Thank you. 146 revisions. Please, National Deputy Kobtsev. 147th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u125	147th. Dear Mr. Knieżicki, I am very grateful to the committee for taking my work into account editorially and allowing them to learn Ukrainian for those who failed to master it. But I want you to comment on why you didn't give me a reference to the fact that these courses are going to take place at the expense of the state budget, because I wrote this bill not about secondary education or not preschool, but really about people who are very adults. And I'm from the east myself, and I know how many people we have, they can, but for various reasons in the Soviet Union, they haven't been able to learn their native language. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u126	Thank you, colleague. Well, first of all, I'd like to tell you that if you're going to read the law, and you have to explain it to people, too, when people are making up, who don't know Ukrainian language, who aren't in school, or senior officials, who are taking exams, they're making it up as a European model. So they don't have to refer to Stephaniek's novel or read all of Shevchenka's Cobzar, they have to testify that they speak the language. It provides a free level of education that all citizens will receive. Instead, we've actually set up separate government language learning programs, they're in the future, and these government programs can be financed not only by the state budget, they can be implemented by local budgets, they can be implemented by communities, they can be implemented by private individuals or foundations that want to support it. That is why where there is a duty, it is considered. But if people want to know the language more than the law requires, the state should not pay for it. And with regard to this law, the State will provide training for people. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? No, it's not. Okay. Let's move on. 148th. Please, National Deputy Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u128	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm not really going to ask for confirmation because it's considered by the committee. In fact, to confirm what the committee agreed: the state organizes courses in Ukrainian for adults and provides the opportunity to speak the national language freely to citizens, I think we should expand the article and point out that not only citizens but also those who want it. Another point is that decentralization processes in the state today allow communities to fully realize the right to learn Ukrainian by creating cultural Ukrainian centers and using the resources of the united territorial communities themselves. It is a shame that few use it, especially in the south and east of Ukraine. I think the state could encourage the creation of such Ukrainian cultural centres, including the study of Ukrainian. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u129	Thank you. Thank you for your observation, since this amendment is included, you explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u130	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are. This has already been discussed. We've already had a discussion on these amendments, 148th. Now it's Amendment 149. Is the German National MP insisting, Shufrich? 149th. Please, National Deputy Shufrich. 149th. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u131	Dear colleagues! You know, I am outraged by the violation of the Rules and the creation of grounds for repealing this law because of the unconstitutionality of its adoption, the procedure for its adoption. I emphasize that the amendments 143, 144, 146, 147, 148 were not put in place for confirmation. Article 120(3) of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine states: "According to the insistence of the people's deputies of Ukraine, a discussion may be held on the proposal's main committee, an amendment to the next vote." We insist! And now, in principle, we insist on confirming our own amendment. And we demand to follow the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. I believe that we are now witnessing a gross violation of the Rules when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u133	Mr. Nestor! Mr. Nestor, you have just read for yourself that there may not be a discussion, but there may be a discussion, and there may be a vote after the discussion. So let's put it in the hall, ask if the room wants to talk about it, at your suggestion. If not, we're moving on, no problem. I'm reading you the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Nestor, you're going to lose your voice! You won't be appreciated, "by the ribs," that you're breaking your voice. It says, "maybe." It's clearly written, "There can be an urgent discussion."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Sir, your head! Thank you. National Deputy Shufrich, do you insist on voting 149 amendments? [[B in m in s a l in]] 149th is his amendment, it's Schuffritch's amendment. Please. Please vote. [[11:34:01]] For 20 The decision is not made. 150 repairs. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u135	Thank you. I ask you to pay attention to our principle of attitude toward the Rules. Even my own correction, which was counted, I now insisted on confirming. I would like the same attitude to be applied to all the amendments that the Ukrainian national deputies require confirmation. And now for the Putin Tarak. Dunja Miyatovich, who insists on stopping the review of this law and continuing after the presidential election, is probably Mr. Mikoli's "putinian" logic. Well, let me tell you, it's not right, first of all, for a woman; second of all, for the European Union's Human Rights Commissioner, to compare it to a Tarcan, but a toll. You have to apologize to the European community and the European Commission, particularly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u136	Mr. Nestor, Dunja Miyatovich doesn't work in the European Union, she works in another organization. You can read who she is, what she asked for. Let's follow the Rules. By the way, I voted in favour of that confirmation amendment, yours, which was put in because it was counted. You have shown one of the few statesmen’s positions, and then you give it up. Let's work together, adopt the law, thank each other. And Duni Miyatovich should thank those who pay her. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u137	Thank you. The next amendment is number 152. Declined. Please, National Deputy Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u138	Mr. Mikolo, you must be tired. I have mentioned Mrs. Miyatovich’s position as Commissioner for Human Rights several times. And where, in general, is the position of the European Parliament, which proposes that we be very attentive to this law? In addition, it was recommended that this law be considered after consideration, as appropriate, by his study by the Venice Commission, which was not done. And now we're looking at the law exclusively for propaganda purposes, taking into account the presidential election campaign, and nothing good about that law is, unfortunately, going to happen, and that's understandable. It is accepted with a grave violation of the existing Rules and the existing Constitution. And we believe that transparency and objectivity will be impossible under these conditions. And our amendment, I ask you to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, will you comment? 152nd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u140	So 152 revisions. My colleagues, once again, explain to everyone the logic of the Rules: if the amendment is rejected, it is considered as an initiative; if accepted, an initial discussion can be initiated and only after that vote is a clear norm of the Rules that is not discussed. Now, here's to amendment 152. It's the State Language Act. It would be least surprising to establish in the Law on State Language a list of languages of national minorities, especially since this list is established by the Law on the Ratification of the European Charter and is obviously to become part of the law on the application of the languages of the indigenous peoples of the national minorities referred to in article 2 of this law and which, as you know, we are initiating its adoption. Thank you, Mr. Nestor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u141	Thank you, please vote for the people's deputies. [[11:38:02]] For the 18th. The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 153. Sir, don't you insist? Next up is 154th. Please, National Deputy Ribczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u142	Gentlemen, the law literally uses the term "National Commission of Public Language Standards." Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. There is no such commission at present whether it will be created, at which cost it will also not be known, so I propose, in the text of the bill, the word "National Commission for the Standards of State Language" in the appropriate wording, to replace in all articles and chapters the words "Institute for the Ukrainian Language of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine" with the corresponding differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u143	Mr. Eugene, we discussed this amendment yesterday. This law creates a central authority of executive power, so it's definitely going to be created as the central authority of executive power, and we talked about it for a long time yesterday, so I wouldn't want to drag on the discussion. Look, the institute, as I said before, can't do the setting of standards, because these standards have a government then to implement. The decision of the institution cannot be binding on the level of the decision of the public authorities. The standards of the Ukrainian language can then be established only by a national authority. Under these circumstances, the committee decided that this would be done by a commission with the status of CEV. But the commission will make these decisions on the basis of the conclusions and recommendations of the institute, as we talked about. So the institute is in this law, it's going to be preparing decisions, conclusions and recommendations, which are the basis for the commission's decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u144	Thank you. Next amendment. Are you insisting? Please vote. [[11:39:54]] For-29 The decision is not made. The next amendment is number 155. National MP Shufrich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u145	The Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights, Ms. Dunja Miyatovic, insisted that this law should not be considered during the electoral campaign, first. Secondly, it recommends that this law be considered together with standards that would ensure that languages can be used other than Ukrainian. Unfortunately, it has not been heard, and our next amendment is in response to the European Council Commissioner's vision of the human rights issue, which is to each language defined in part one. (I ask you to add time because the big amendment) "For each language defined in the first part of this article, measures are being applied to the use of the regional languages or minority languages provided in this law, provided that the number of persons carrying the regional language in the territory in which the language is used is 10 per cent."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Head of the committee, please. Will you comment? Or we just put it to a vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] End when you consider the next amendment, nothing. Thank you. Vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. [[11:41:40]] For -14 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 156. Please, National Deputy Musai.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, especially the distinguished reporter! The honourable head of the committee! I'm asking you to give me a minute from the moment the head of the committee will listen to the national MPs, not have a culinary negotiation there. Please, the honourable chairman of the committee, please explain once again whether it is in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities to create and authorize the Supreme Council to create a TSOV, this special one, the National Commission, will it be enough when we write down, really, what is the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers? Because it is known that the Cabinet of Ministers creates central executive authorities by its internal arrangements. Why are we now taking over the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine when we have the COWW Act, by which Kabmin is allowed to create an appropriate COWW? Is there no legal contradiction here, and would that not be a basis for the Commission’s incomprehensible status?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u148	Thank you, fellow Musai. I want to tell you that we don't create anything like the Supreme Council. We are obliged by the Cabinet of Ministers to create this body, and the Cabinet of Ministers will create it and operate within the limits of the powers defined by law. So I don't see any contradictions or contradictions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Yes, please vote. [[11:43:25]] For 20 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is number 157. National MP Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, Rule 157 proposes a part of two articles 5 to be edited as follows: "The level of state language ownership required for the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship defines the central authority of executive authority in the field of education and science." On the first reading, such credentials were on the National Commission of Public Language Standards. I want to point out that part of the third article of the Ukrainian Education Act 48 is defined: the order, types and forms of quality monitoring of education is confirmed by the COV in the field of education and science, namely the Ministry of Education and Science. Part of the first article 64 of this law is the CEVV’s authority. So I'd like to hear the idea that Mikola Leonidovich, the committee, is asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u151	Thank you! Thank you, dear colleague Boyko! The level of national language should determine the special body for which this level is to be defined as one of the main tasks. The Ministry of Education can't directly do this because there are a few other functions in this ministry, but this law provides for a national commission that is created, which, as the central authority of the executive branch, is under the authority of the Ministry of Education. So it's actually a body that's under the Ministry of Education and it's actually the sphere of influence of the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? Please vote. [[11:45:09]] For-28 The decision is not taken. The next amendment is 159. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u154	158th, it's counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's counted! [[B in m in s a l in]] No one does. The author does not insist. Please, 159th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u155	159th, yes. Thank you. There is a very important issue that needs to be discussed: when it comes to language examinations. So I would say that there are a lot of issues in this law that show that someone wants to move very quickly. But we forget that today the multimillion - dollar population of Ukraine is very different from the west to the east. And if we're going to give, today, to put equal ownership, not what, you know, you don't know Ukrainian language, you don't know the level of ownership, and we're going to hand it over to officials, bureaucrats who don't know what level they're going to be and who's going to be inclined to think about language. So today we cannot put Ukrainians on the line of officials. So, in my opinion, we need to give up so far to determine the level of speaking, but only to talk about what a person knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u156	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u157	Well, first of all, the levels of ownership that are established by this law are completely duplicated by the European Commission, exactly the same levels of ownership are in all European countries. In part three, it is established that the order in which the exam is to be conducted at the level of ownership is established by the Cabinet of Ministers. In the event that this rule is removed, an important part of the law can be blocked, because without the passing of the exam it will not be possible to take up senior positions in the public service or to obtain citizenship, or to register with the Presidents, as required by the Constitution, so we have rejected this rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u158	Thank you. And please vote for the amendment of the People's Deputy Pisarenko, please. 159th. Thank you very much. [[11:47:48]] For 20 The correction is being rejected. The next is 160 revisions. National deputy of Germany, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u159	Germany, "The Opposition Platform for Life". Dear colleagues, the initiative to exclude part three of this. Indeed, it should be ruled out today because it sounded here. The reporter. I would like to say that the right to a language is an absolute natural right of a person, an integral part of a person, and that interference with the legal or normative functions of a person in the exercise of his natural right must be very valid in law and not allow what is now being done by this law. We're putting the question of the division of the nation on the line. What's not clear? We have a Ukrainian nation, read article 11. How can we put in one of the Laws on State Language?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u160	Thank you. Finish up. 15 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u161	How can you ask questions about the state language - and this same law eliminate other languages that are in Ukraine? Millions of citizens! – Russian and other languages that exist. Read what we've accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u162	Thank you. Please comment, Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u163	Thank you. The amendment is rejected because it is the Law on State Language, which exclusively defines the rules for its application. As for regional languages, as suggested by a colleague of Germany, this is not subject to regulation of this law. That's why it's rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u164	Thank you. I'd like to make a decision for 160. [[11:49:59]] For -14 The correction is being rejected. The next is 161 revisions. A German word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u165	Germany, the Life Platform. What a complement there is. I want to say a little bit to remember. Car 1 December. On December 1, 1991, a referendum was held, and the Ukrainian nation expressed its independence for its own. It's not just a holiday, it's defined by their, the status of their nation, their nation. And they included 40 percent of people who were non - Ukrainian. And then we saw that it was really true. And for today, this question has been forgotten by these people. And that's why we're saying whether the addition is that it's through a referendum to foresee in a law that the realization of its right to govern state affairs that people all have the right to do, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u166	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u167	They're Ukrainian-speaking. Russian speakers are also Ukrainian citizens. Why the law, the directive goes to us, Europe says it's a recommendation. The Venice Commission says that it discriminates against you, what do you do? And we're playing ball, and we're getting this bill out of the gutter, and we want to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u168	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u169	Thank you. This is the Law on State Language, not the rules on the application of regional languages. You can submit a bill on the rules for the application of regional languages, and I will not vote for it, but I will. Thank you. Correction rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u170	Thank you. Please identify yourself as amended by 161, Your Honor. Please. [[11:52:13]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. 162 revisions. To the author, Mrs. Boyko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u171	162. The amendment, proposed in part three of article 5, reads as follows: "The completion of the examination at the level of the state language of the language required for the acquisition of Ukrainian citizenship is carried out in accordance with the order established by the central executive authority in the field of education and science." I will not insist on confirming this amendment because it has been taken into account in part, and the committee proposes, "...the established Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." We can agree with that. Instead, I want my opinion on the previous amendment. I do not share the idea that a separate CEV should be created because this is not in line with the concept of government reform as part of the optimisation of the functions of CEV itself. Perhaps in preparing our next steps, technical and legal work, this might be considered. Please take her into account. But I don't take this amendment for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u172	Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u173	So let's move on to the next one. 163th. 164th. 165th. 164. Please, Germany, 164th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, why is this proposal made regarding the documentary process regarding personality? And that's why we want, first of all, to report information that we don't need to confuse the identity and identity that you refer to in your bill. And that's why we're suggesting that as we go out. For the first time there are other languages here, another language is the ethnic Ukrainians. Look. But you don't write anything and you don't regulate anything. How can that be? This is unacceptable! And secondly, if you've already said that there's an ethno self-identification, then it has to be completed in this document. To that I'll tell you that it's not just our opposition platform that's talking about it, and that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u175	30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u176	And so we ask you to take into account the additions and changes that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u177	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u178	The amendment refers to the fact that passports, such as English, may not be issued. But if this is the case with international treaties, such documents are duplicated in English and English. So the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u179	Thank you. I bet on the vote of amendment 164, the committee rejected it. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[11:55:23]] Z-11. The decision is not made. 165th. 167th. 168th. 169th. 165th is an editorial. Please, Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u180	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I ask for confirmation of 165 amendments, 166-y, 167-y, 168-y, 172-y, 175-y, 176-y, 181-y, 183-y, 187-y, 188-y, 189-y, 189-y, 190-y, 191-y, 193-y, 194-y, 195-y and 196-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y-y. And I submit a corresponding written statement to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u182	Dear Mr. Head! As I have explained, according to the Rules on the Urgement of People’s Deputies, it may not be necessary, but a discussion may be held on the proposal’s main committee, the amendment followed by the vote, the inclusion of part of the proposal. That is, there is no such paragraph in the Rules. Perhaps a colleague of Papiev is initiating a discussion. If the House votes in favour, we can discuss an amendment, which is a direct rule of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u183	Colleagues, pay attention! I can’t even remember all these changes. That's why I put 165. Then you give me the list, and we'll talk after the break. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, pay attention! I'm betting 165th, as Papiev demanded. Then we'll continue the discussion, because we still have a statement from two factions for the performance. I'm betting on confirmation of 165 revisions. It's considered editorially. Who's in charge of taking it fully into account, please vote. [[11:58:26]] For-79 The decision is not taken. So, colleagues, c.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u184	Brenzowich is not accepted at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u185	We're on our way. Let's talk on a break. Mr. Mikolo, we'll discuss this over and over again. Now I want to announce that I've received a statement from two factions, the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, which they're willing to replace with a break for the performance. And I invite you to speak to Vladimir Ariev. Please, three minutes. And, Mr. Mikolo, at 12:30 we will return to the discussion. Please, Mr. Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, according to our choices, we have found ourselves in such a cocoon and have not noticed at all the tectonic processes that are taking place today in a civilized world. And these tectonic processes are related to a fundamental change in attitudes, particularly in Europe, towards the Russian Federation. Yesterday, the European Parliament adopted a resolution with over 400 votes, effectively changing its attitude toward the Russian Federation as a partner. This finally happened. It took five years, five years of Ukrainian work led by the President of Ukraine, the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it was the work of national deputies who spoke English and went to Brussels, Strasbourg, the European Parliament, to convince Russia that it was impossible to speak diplomatically, because Russia was continuing its aggression. I'll read you the main ones that were adopted in yesterday's European Parliament decision, yesterday's resolution. The resolution stressed the need to review the EU’s cooperation and partnership agreement with the Russian Federation and finally to delete Russia as a strategic partner. The resolution made it clear that sanctions against Russia should be extended as long as Russia continues its aggression. Condemned Russian disinformation campaign. Finally, in Europe we felt what we had felt since 2014, in Europe we finally understood what had happened to their information space and how they were undermining European unity today. Threats to neighbours, including Ukraine, and threats to the Baltic region, the Black Sea region, and the Mediterranean, have been condemned. It is condemned that the need to build the North Stream-2, which is described as a threat to Europe's energy security, has been raised again. And I think that finally this understanding happened, after we did our active work in the triangle -- the president, the government and the parliament -- we did it in the outer arena. finally convince our colleagues. It is particularly important that this happened in the background of appropriate voting for relevant bills in the United States Congress, where 180 days were given to explore Putin's assets and 90 days on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u187	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u188	90 days to inform American legislators about Russian aggression. What's more, Russian aggression is now being reported by security forces around the world that it's Putin's attack. It's not a joke, it's a reality. That is why we need to unite today and resist Russian aggression, for Ukraine is on the edge today, and this is a major danger. And we need to understand today that this is the task of the entire Ukrainian society -- to stand in.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u189	Thank you. So, colleagues, I'd like to inform you that I have received a letter from the People's Deputy Papiev. I also want to say that there are many rights to 165, we're not going back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Both Irina and Irina Heratchenko were announced from the rostrum. We won't go back and jump all over the law. Everyone has been announced, colleagues. I won't let us break up like this. Every law enforcement officer announces it. After 165, we'll put it to a vote. There won't be a vote on 165. We called each one of the rights when they were being considered. Thank you. I'm going to call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30 I ask everyone to come to the hall, and head of the committee, to continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u190	So the colleagues, the time taken for the break, are exhausted. I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. I'm asking you to get ready, and I'm asking the head of the committee to take the job. Colleagues, I want to let you know that there are no fears or misunderstandings. Indeed, every national MP has the right to submit a confirmation of any legal order that has been taken into account by the committee, which is a direct rule of the Rules. But I also want to remind you of the practice of reviewing our large-scale bills, whether anti-corruption law or medical reform or education. After all the rights have been passed, the committee will hold its meetings and will inform the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which of the rights are of fundamental importance in order to ensure that the bill is complete and that it can work fully. And then we -- and by law, and by our practice, we can go back to those amendments and confirm them, colleagues, when the committee does the necessary work. That's why I'm telling the TV viewers who are watching us and hurting us for language, and the people's deputies: don't be afraid of it, it's a normal, regular job. Before the adoption of the law, the entire committee will invite us to return to the rights that we considered to be valid, and we will be able to return to them. That's the first message. Next. I suggest that we go in the same sequence as we did until then, that is, your adjustments we will put, but in the process of passing them. You got it, right? So all the adjustments are going to be made. You can take any word for it. One hundred and Please, that's why I'm giving you, that's why I'm turning on the microphone. 166. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Papiev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u191	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected colleagues, respected TV viewers who observe what is happening in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would very much like the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to talk about the practice of adopting drafts, but somehow he would get tense and refer to the standards of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and say what article it is, according to which article. Because your practice, it leads to, there are already two decisions of the Constitutional Court that have annulled the laws and declared them unconstitutional in connection with a violation of the procedure for their adoption. Today, as Ukraine's national deputy, I want to use my constitutional right of legislative initiative -- and in accordance with part three of article 120, I insist that the chairman put to the vote, to confirm those articles that correspond to the comparative table of the draft law that we are considering for the second reading. And please put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u192	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u193	And one more request, both to the chairman and to the head of the committee that is now in the rostrum. No one has the right to allow themselves to be treated by law, you are not the Constitutional Court, let the Constitutional Court treat the law. You can put your thoughts or practices in, and I put my own into it and let's each of us be on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u194	Thank you. I'm making a request. You've got a tradition like this today about "understandings," "stressing." Please store your criminal vocabulary, which has always been relevant to you, for your environment where you are doing your time. I very much ask you to speak correctly, I am speaking fairly to you: I apologize, I beg your pardon. And when you address the Head of the Supreme Council, please behave properly and address yourself properly. First. Next up, colleagues. I fully confirmed at the outset that every direction you intend to set for confirmation will be given you the word and will be put on confirmation. I remember, colleagues. Please, I didn't give my word right now. I understand the danger, I remember why the Kevala Wheels Act was repealed. It's because the Party of Regions you're all representing has been completely in violation of the Rules, not only by violating the Rules, but with the fighters that have crippled the opposition. That's why we're going every way. That's why I, as Head of the Supreme Council, guarantee the right of every MP to make every statement. And we're not going to go on any offense to ensure that the law is in force. Realizing that this is a form of time delay, each word given will be given, each vote will be held in the hall. In return, I urge you to conduct yourself properly and with dignity. So 166 right. Are you going to comment, Mr. Mikola? 166th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u195	No, it's not. 166 for confirmation, do you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u196	Yes, the confirmation is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u197	I don't see the point. I'm sorry. I'm just going to tell my colleague briefly that the Constitutional Court has not interpreted the laws for three years, because these powers have been taken away from him. And anyone can interpret the law, and the Constitutional Court interprets the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u198	Thank you, colleagues. Once again, I ask that we go to each other's repairs. I'm voting for confirmation on the request of the People's Deputies of Papiev's Rules 166. I'm reminding you that the committee counted it, and I'm putting it on a full scale. The committee counted it in part, I put it in full measure. [[12:40:30.]] For-36 And also my colleagues, I want to emphasize, this is where we happened, before we go to the next discussion of the amendment, at the request of the People's Deputy Papiev and put it on the line, I want to stress one very important rule of the Rules, which is in line with the 120th. Dear Mr. Papiev, I don't think you're going to argue with this, part one of the 120 articles that defines the preparation of the law for the second reading, says that the discussion takes place in order and numbering proposed by the Main Committee. And we're moving in order and numbering right now. If you want to go back to some previous amendment right now, we need 226 votes in order to get back. So we're moving on, and I'm watching the hall closely so that we don't miss any amendments. 167 revisions. And the word is given to Mr. Papiev's honorary colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u199	Thank you, Reverend Irina Volodymyr! I am grateful to you because you are the only presiding officer in the Presidium who adheres to the rules and laws of Ukraine, for which I am most grateful. You do not comment on the speeches of the national MPs, as the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine permits in violation of the Rules. But now we're talking about the next thing. I represent the region of Cherniewets, the province of Bukovina is a multinational region. And we need to take into account, today, when adopting laws, the constitutional rights and European norms in general in relation to our multinational Ukrainian community, which are citizens of Ukraine. Dear fellow Members, I ask that this rule of the article be confirmed. This is regulation 167, and I ask you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u200	Thank you. Please comment to the chairman of the committee. There's no comment. I'll comment anyway. See, 167 articles, which refer to the fact that a Ukrainian citizen who is not of ethnic origin and whose native language is different from that of Ukraine, writes his name and surname according to the rules of Ukrainian spelling. This is clearly what this amendment was about. I'm asking you very much when we're discussing the amendment, what the People's MEP of Papiev is now insisting that we talk about the body of the amendment. I have to go to you, Mr. Papiev. You insist on voting because it's a very correct amendment, that a person should write his last name according to the transcription of the Ukrainian language. Are you insisting? Okay. Colleagues, according to the insistence of the People's Deputy Papiev, I place a total amount of amendment 167, which was considered editorially by the committee. [[12:43:31]] For-54 Let's move on. 168 revisions. In addition to this amendment, it also applies to confirmation by the People’s Deputy Papiev. Please, Mr. Papiev's microphone. And then the microphone for the author of the repair, Mrs. Gorge.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know that there may be different approaches, as well as writing, writing a last name, a name according to the national tradition, Ukrainian citizens may do, and according to Ukrainian spelling. Nevertheless, it would be desirable for the first time to have the right of a citizen to record his name, surname, and father according to his national tradition so that we respect the citizens of Ukraine of other nationalities. I'm asking you to make 168 amendments to confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pobelik, as the author of this amendment, 168th, will you take the floor? Because, according to the Rules, we are currently discussing this amendment, which Mr Papiev requires to be made for confirmation. Please, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u203	Thank you. Colleagues, this amendment has been taken into account. Since the issue of language is not an ethnic issue, then the right to apply special rules of writing is permitted to all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their ethnic background, if they consider themselves native to another language than to Ukrainian. Well, a colleague who's offering to put it on confirmation from the Opposition Block is still offering to share citizens of ethnic origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u204	Thank you. Please identify 168 amendments. We can't discuss it, all of us. Mrs. Irina had the right to take the floor as an author. [[12:45:24]] For-46 The correction is being rejected. 169 people's amendment. Aah! The National Deputy of Germany, and then we will move on to the amendments outlined in the written address of the People's Deputy Papiev. We simply move according to 120 articles in the first part of the order proposed by the Main Committee. Please read 169 articles. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u205	Life Platform, Germany. Dear colleagues, look, there is a term in the law "according to origin, ethnic origins are not Ukrainians." Notice, nowhere does the Constitution of Ukraine contain the term "Ukraine" -- these are the citizens of Ukraine. And then there's another one: And their native language is different from Ukrainian." What's that? This was in the 33rd year. I want them to remember that! What's "a different language"? What is it? How does this feel about the nature of law, natural law? That's the first one. And it doesn't have the right to exist, it doesn't fit in any of the frameworks. And the second. We're proposing a civilized approach, we're proposing that we solve this question, how this was done in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u206	From 0 seconds finish. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u207	were ethno-identified, ethno-identical, had the same necessary documents for their identity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u208	Please comment to the committee head on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u209	Thank you. Thank you. First, Madam Chairman, well, this is again, when Germany returned to the previous amendment, which was voted out, although it was to discuss the following, but since it touched it, I want to say that the colleagues of Podujak, Semimenach and Ostrikov proposed that they were excluded from the law of the norm, the words "which by their ethnic origin are not Ukrainians." And the committee supported this because we don't share Ukrainians according to ethnic origin. Instead, the Opposition Block, back to German tradition. Fascist Germany once again proposes to share citizens of ethnic origin. We're all definitely against it. That's why, unfortunately, we didn't have any votes in the room, and we began to divide the Ukrainians by ethnic origin. Hopefully, then we'll fix it. Thank you. As for 169 amendments, it was rejected, from which Mr. Germano was supposed to speak, because it, again, refers to regional languages, and this is the Law on State Language. So please don't support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u210	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want us to move on the text of the amendments. 169 revisions. During the discussion, no one mentioned what was going on. It was about spreading the article of the first, this article in official documents: educational documents, employment books, military tickets. I now put it to the vote, this amendment, but I very much ask that the amendments follow the text of the amendments. Please be sure. I saw your hand. We move on, and then you have the opportunity. [[12:49:00]] For the 15th. The correction is being rejected. 170 revisions. National MP Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u211	I'm going to add an article 6-1 that's going to contain the following. According to the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Charter of National Languages or Minorities, the languages of national minorities in Ukraine are: Belarusian, Bulgarian, Hagueian Greek, idish, Crimean Tatar, Moldovan, German, Polish, Russian, Romanian, Slovak and Hungarian. This is in the law that we ratified the relevant convention, the European Charter. So we need this issue to be solved once and for all, and we need to mark it up and duplicate it in the Language Law, because there will be a lot of speculation about it. I have people in Kharkiv today very often ask, Where and how they will be told, whether to use language, or not to use language in a normal life. I want to say that Parliament must now give a signal to the people who are ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u212	Please, 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u213	This article will signal to people that our international commitments to languages, regional languages, and languages of national minorities are supported, and there will be no such thing that people who speak Russian, Hungarian, Polish or German, Slovak and use it in Ukraine will be limited in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u214	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u215	Thank you. This is the signal given in this law by article 2, which says that the law does not extend at all to private communication, so people in Kharkiv can speak any language. With regard to this article, which you are referring to, firstly, the European Charter Ratification Act is already the law, which is where it is set out. And it should be duplicated, not in this law, but in the Law on the Application of the Languages of Indigenous Peoples and National Minorities, which according to this law is to be passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, it can be duplicated. In short, I've been told by the National MPs that some of the national MPs speaking are not part of the Opposition Block, but the Opposition Platform is called Life. Well, that matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u216	Thank you, colleagues. It doesn't matter who the platform belongs to when we discuss the amendments, my dear. But we are voting with you now for amendment 170. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I don't think Mr. Princess is adverting you. We haven't gone that far today, have we? But as part of the work on our bill, please identify 170 amendments. Please. The committee turned her down, I remind you. Exchanged thoughts. [[12:51:52]] For the 10th. The correction is being rejected. The next 171 amendments. National deputy of Germany, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, well, let me tell you, there is no limit to the content of this law. We suggest that this part of article 6 be excluded altogether. And look at what kind of weight does it carry? It's about the passport entry for going abroad. But it's not a piece of legislation. You see, the passport position, it's all there. It's about the visa issue. It's all there. It's all there. What are we writing about? We do. It's not a law, it's basically an instruction. And I'd like to pay attention to that. And please support our position that part three should be ruled out, because it will essentially squander this bill if it has the right to exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u218	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u219	The committee rejected this amendment because it's about English in Ukrainian passports that I have to write "Mikola" instead of "Nikola," that's the norm. So the committee rejected her. Please don't support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u220	Please make up your mind. [[12:53:33]] For the 10th. The amendment is not accepted. The next is 173 revisions. Please. 172nd. Please, People's Deputy Pisarenko. It is counted, but it is the author and has the right to take the floor now. Please. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u221	Yeah, I'm just for the sake of discussion, no vote. I mean, enough hard language on the requirement of free rulership has been changed to a duty, but of course, we need to be very careful about the category of persons to whom the legal obligation to speak the language will be established. Once again, I would like to point out that the mechanism is still unknown to us. We understand that there will be some level of rulership that will be needed. Confirmed. We don't know how this system is going to work, and it's very good that we do something like this now or we have a project to make sure that citizens understand that these categories of people will have these requirements and they can have access to the profession because of these criteria. Then we don't have the problems that my colleagues from different factions are talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u222	Thank you. It does not insist on the vote of a respected colleague, since this amendment was counted by the committee. The next is 173 revisions. National deputy of Germany.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u223	We suggest that we follow exclusively the Constitution of Ukraine and its standards of direct action. To that end, we say and suggest that we cannot apply at all, what free national language is. And the next part. Article 7 foretells who should be free to rule. Now, look, the Constitution of Ukraine, with regard to the same candidate for Presidents or Presidents, does it provide for free language? It says: possession. Is that a natural right that doesn't make sense? How can you do that? And the second. I'd like to ask what kind of mission we have here from executive power, from the Cabinet of Ministers? Mr. Kirilenko, what's his status? Where the Rules provide that he was "the tongue of the original" to.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u224	Thank you. The name Kirilenka was mentioned. 30 seconds, please. Please, Germany, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u225	functions that are not related to the legislative process, and it has nothing to do with it. I'd like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u226	Thank you. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to thank the Government and, in particular, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Kirilenko for the fact that the government is present during the discussion of the key bill. And, yes, it would be good if there were more presidential candidates, faction leaders. Because we're discussing a key bill. And in fact, we've been asking questions all along, including your faction, about the absence of ministers, the absence of ministers during the discussion. So when they're here, it's bad again. It is only right that ministers and vice-premiers participate, participate in the consideration of the key bill. That's right in the parliamentary-presidential republic, and that's certainly not forbidden. Now let's move on. Let's move on. And the committee head's explanation for the amendment that we're discussing, 173rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u227	Yes, first of all, the term "freedom" has been ruled out. And if the amendment is to be confirmed, then all of these blocks and factions, the Life, and for everything else, they have the power to bring it back. He's off now. This amendment is rejected because the law clearly gives full rules and an effective procedure for certifying the level of language spoken by the European model. Therefore, an amendment is proposed to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u228	Thank you. I'm putting this amendment to the vote right now. And the vice-premier mentioned requires a minute after this time. Of course we'll give it to him. Please, 173 revisions. I'm asking you to be sure. [[12:58:13]] For-12. And now Mr. Germanko has addressed the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Deputy Prime Minister wishes to answer Mr. German for his question. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u229	My presence here confirms the unity of the Parliamentary Coalition, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine in respect of the Ukrainian language as a national language, which, unfortunately, is not to mention the various "regions" that are now hiding under various other names and are now trying to disinform the Ukrainian people actively on the second day in a row. But they fail because Parliament acts on behalf of the Ukrainian people and Parliament has a clear intention under the Rules and the Constitution, without violating anything, unlike you, to adopt the law provided for in the Constitution, the programme of coalition activities and the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u230	Thank you for your clarification, dear colleague. Let's move on. 174th Amendment, Mrs. Boyko. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I'm sorry, Mrs. Boyko has the right to speak. It's different. [[B in m in s a l in]] No last name was mentioned, but before that. Please! Please! Please! Not mentioned. There was a Party of Regions mentioned, we don't have a Party of Regions in Parliament. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, it's 174 technical and legal. The title of chapter III is given in the following line: "Chapter III. The requirement of free language as a national language." The committee proposes that this chapter be called the "Obligation of State Language". Please place it on confirmation, because I believe that my rights correspond to more of the content and title of the Act itself, "On ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian language as a national language." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u232	Thank you very much. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear colleague, in view of the fact that the number 172 of Pisarenko's colleagues has been taken into account, the proposed amendment of the "freedom to rule" committee has been rejected, since freedom of tenure is not a level, but simply a domestic term. But under this law there are several levels of rulership, most of which are levels of free rulership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u234	Thank you. Please vote 174. [[13:00:59]] Z-11. The correction is being rejected. The next one is 175 revisions. There was a request, Mr. Kishkar, there was a request from the People's Deputy Papiev, and then I'll give you my word. Well, I have a written request. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u235	Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman, my dear colleagues, you know that I would still like to understand the legal basis of the Cabinet of Ministers in general to intervene in the activities of a completely independent body defined by the Constitution of Ukraine as the highest legislative body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind the Deputy Prime Minister of the Constitution of Ukraine that the Cabinet of Ministers is under control and accountable to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I ask you not to interfere with the legislative work of the Ukrainian National Deputies and not to interfere with our activities, because this will again be another point when we give constitutional advice on the unconstitutionality of this law, which humiliates citizens of other nationalities of Ukraine. This will be another rule of violation of the procedure for considering and adopting this bill. And I would advise the vice-premier to do more Euroworking and maybe lead some choir of boys, yes, and have Ukraine represented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to address everyone here that we are discussing a bill. Let's not insult each other. That's the first one. The other one. There was a call from the German national deputy to a government representative. And I thank the government that gave a comprehensive answer regarding the unity of government coalition positions in the bill under discussion. That was Mr. Germanko's answer. And from the author's team, please give me a comment right now. From the author's Rudik team. I'll give you my word now, Mr. Germanka. Well, I can see and hear you, you think you're talking so quietly. I can even hear you from under those coulaires. Please, Mr. Ruddick. Then we'll vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u237	Dear colleagues, this right here is the version that reads: "persons who are obliged to speak the national language and apply it in the performance of their duties." Do you not think, Mr. Mikolo, that the freedom to speak the national language sounds much better than just a commitment? Because you realize that having our official speak the language in your own language may mean, well, far from the ideal of Shewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u238	Thank you. Please comment to the head of the committee, as we are on the assumption of a national MP. Mr Papiev's insistence discusses this amendment 175. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u239	Dude, this isn't what I think it's about. We have a committee decision to make on the committee. And the committee decided that "freedom" is a term of residence and we suggested that we use a more accurate scale of ownership based on European Union standards to clearly determine when in life, at work, what level of ownership is needed. And we will be able to discuss this in detail with you later when we consider the relevant amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u240	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I recall, the amendment was taken into account editorially. It is required to be fully validated. I'll bet you a full vote of vote. Colleagues, please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. You don't demand it, Papiev demands it. You're in a constructive position, I know, Mr. Osuhovsky. And the People’s Deputy Papiev takes a stand: According to the Rules, he demands that everything be put to the test. [[13:04:40]] For-49 Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. Well, it's not fair today, you know. That's all that's going on right now, that's not fair. But to do that, we need to make changes to the Rules, which now allow the bill to be destroyed. 170. Dear Mr. Kishkar, under the Rules we can discuss any amendment. Yeah? The first one came to me with this request from the People’s Deputy Papiew. I look very closely at the hall so that everyone can get a word, but we can't give a word to every deputy after a single amendment. I don't give judges to MPs, but I like you very much, Mr. Kishkar, a hundred percent. 176 revisions. Please, Mr. Kishkar, 176 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u241	I'm actually still not putting the subject on the line. And the request to the Environment is a party of regions to listen to common sense. I think there's still a little bit more common sense in Chernobyl than in other regions. And that amendment, which was taken into account, Mrs. Skrum, and clearly defined article 7: "The circle of persons who are obliged to speak the national language" is meant to identify the category that is required to speak the Ukrainian language and to make it impossible for those who are spoken of to be non-public, that is, the scope of application that applies to ordinary civilian life. I think that this definition is fairly correct and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u242	Thank you. Please comment to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u243	I'm going to limit my comments because the activists, the people working on this law, have asked us not to delay the process. I fully support the position of Comrade Kiskar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u244	Thank you. Let's move on. The next amendment is 181. The National MP Papiew asked her to make the same request. But there is author Pisarenko. Please speak first to Mr. Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u245	Thank you. We came to the question when we would now determine who we were obliged to speak the national language. I want to say that once again, I'm stressing that perhaps the introduction of levels of ownership on now might be inappropriate. I think the best thing to do is to show how this system is going to work, and then to approve it. Today, it may be necessary either to abstain or to enter a period of time if we can understand how this system will work. And for top officials, maybe it would have to be at the level of the national language and in foreign languages to speak it so that we can develop faster today. Because today maybe it's not enough for top officials to speak only in the national language. And that would be better, and maybe already these accents could be placed in our law. By the way, I'm going to have to make these proposals. Thank you. I can do without it. We will vote for Papiev's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u246	Thank you so much for the clarification. Let's move on. 182nd, please correct. National Deputy Germano, this is your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u247	Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to go back to that understanding of the right to language is my legal definition. Once again, I emphasize that this is an absolute, natural right, and in a direct sense. And that's why all acts of hyperbolization of positive norms that push for the realization of natural law are not natural, and nothing but damage is going to happen. What's the word "commit"? Whom can we commit? Can we commit or train someone or teach them to jump or grab spies or anyone else? It's about natural law. "Obligate" is to say "should know," yes, and the word "obligation" doesn't sound at all. Hence, we ask questions about disfellowshipping where the responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u248	Thank you. Will you comment, Mr. Princess?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u249	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u250	Thank you. Your position is clear. You respect those public activists who ask us to move faster as we consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u251	No, Madam Chairman, I will comment where it is really essential if it is of interest to the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u252	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u253	A German colleague proposes to exclude the list of persons who are obliged to speak the national language. But this list is found even in other laws, so we did not. I'm offering no support. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u254	Thank you for clarifying the head of the committee for this amendment. And I ask you to vote on it, colleagues. [[13:10:06]] For-9 The correction is being rejected. Next amendment, National MP Musai, 183. Please, you have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u255	Dear committee head, I have more of an interpretation. You've changed a little bit, taking my remarks and my edit into account, and you actually added the word "use" which is absolutely logical and correct, but I had the right word "use." Would you please explain two words and "use" and "use" and "use"? What is the difference between these two words? And is it better to use two or maybe not? I do not insist on voting, but to understand the room, please provide an explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u256	Thank you, fellow Musai. We basically supported your amendment, but really in the Constitution we use the term "use of languages," so we've completely brought terminology to a valid Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u257	Thank you for discussing this amendment. We're moving on. And the next amendment is 186. No, I'm sorry, yes, we have 184 amendments, the author is the national MP Igor Vasjunik. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Irina! Both 184 and 178 of my rights have suggested that those who are obliged to speak the national language also be obliged to use it when performing their duties. But since these two are edited, I will not insist on their consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u259	Thank you, thank you for your constructive position and for actively updating the bill for second reading. The next one is 186 amendments, Lesyuk. It was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u260	Short. Ladies and gentlemen, why did you write the phrase "at the standard"? I mean, when we talk, when it's written. You know, there has to be some kind of codification, and it's not just a person who has to speak a language to carry out his duties. I mean, it's desirable for some codification to be done and so on. I don't really insist, because I see, essentially, it's in the right direction. But, Mr. Mikolo, please explain this to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u261	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. The main reason for the rejection, although it is essentially included in the text of the bill, is that one of the purpose of the bill is to consolidate all regulation of the use of the national language in one law. So instead of making a reference to a specific article in another law, the law lists the corresponding positions directly in the body, in the text of the law. The amendment to part three of this article has been rejected, since the committee has considered another amendment, by which part three has been removed from the law in general, simply from the legal case law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u262	Thank you, colleagues. Please identify 186 amendments to the National Deputies of Belarus and Lesjuk. [[13:13:36]] For-23 23-yes. The amendment is not accepted. The next amendment, if I'm not mistaken, is 192nd National MP Pisarenko. Right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u263	Yeah. Thank you. My proposal is to clear the words "authorized for the protection of the state language" so that we can approach the concept of those organs that will exist in the sphere of regulation, aid, development and so on, and in general, the implementation of the provisions of this law if it is approved. Today, part of the additional organs have been refused, but they have still left, including "Authorized for the Protection of the State Language." In my opinion, we need to turn our backs on bureaucrats who will monitor additional functions and give us more freedom of speech, rather than putting in people who will spend public funds and write some extra rules every day. In my opinion, this could be done by a national agency, and it would be easier for us to control all of this, and in this case we don't need additional officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u264	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take the committee's position as to why this amendment has been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u265	Thank you. The amendment by a colleague of Pisarenko suggested that they remove the “authorized language” from the list of persons who should speak and use the national language. In fact, it was indeed, according to his colleague Pisarenko, that he felt that such a position of authority was not necessary, and we discussed it yesterday. And the proposal that there be no such position could not be found support in the hall. And this amendment is rejected by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u266	Thank you. I'd like to make a determination for 192 amendments, colleagues. [[13:15:40]] For -8 The correction is being rejected. Please, Amendment 193, People's Deputy Kishkar. It is counted, but the author insists on the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u267	Thank you, Mr. Mikolo, for our amendment with Jaroslav Lesyuk found support on the committee, which is absolutely logical and reasonable. And I'm going to explain to Mr. Pisarenko why it's illogical, because it's actually a list of the positions that are required to speak the national language. And Mr. Pisarenko asks that the person in charge of his office be removed from there, and he is responsible for the official’s ability to speak the Ukrainian language. And that's absolutely impossible. That is why we need an authorized one as such, and it is certain that the authorized one will have to speak the English language perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u268	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. 197 amendment, National Deputy Brenzovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's not how you were in the hall, Sir Michael! We're moving now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u269	Paragraph 2 of the first article 7 is proposed to be deleted, for its application would violate the constitutional rights enshrined in articles 24, 37, 38 of the Constitution. I insist on eliminating this standard because what do we get? Some officials will decide who can or will not fly. Or after the election, they'll look at the results of the election according to the criteria of proper language knowledge. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u270	I understand your position on this amendment. Please comment to the committee head on why it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u271	Dear colleague Brenzovich, this rule does not refer to any restrictions on rights. The requirement of a person to speak the national language is directly linked to the possibility of full performance by persons in their respective positions of authority. A member of the local council will not be able to fail to speak the national language even if he is unable to understand national legislation or to communicate with the electorate or to participate in the development of relevant legislation. Thus, the amendment was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u272	Thank you. Please vote 197. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:18:12]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. 198th, Romanowski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Romanowski? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, after 198 only the author can. It was rejected. 199, Rybczynski. Please insist on the word of National Deputy Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u273	Dear Mr. Mikolo, please tell me further about those who are obliged to speak the national language, and I have not met the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is an important question, because still, according to this bill, there is no norm at all as such. When it is applied to the President regarding the availability of a document on national language, there is no such rule in the text. And now, in paragraph 2 of the first article 7, there are no Ukrainian national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u274	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u275	What about repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u276	By 199, your honor, the Princess.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u277	Dear colleague Rybak, in fact, I agree with you, but our Constitution sets out a comprehensive list of requirements for them, including, for some reason, the requirement to speak the national language by the people's deputies, i.e. the Constitution itself does not. Maybe in the 96th year it was relevant, and without that, for example, the Constitution could not accept it, because we remember how it happened then. And in fact, among all constitutional positions, only national MPs are not provided for by the Constitution, which they have to speak in the national language. We consulted scientists, professors of law, judges of the Constitutional Court, and they all say that the law cannot impose language censorship where it is not provided for by the Constitution. The lack of language requirements for deputies was adopted in the first edition of the Constitution. In this call, the Supreme Council has twice made changes to the Constitution, and unfortunately we have not been able to make such changes. So hopefully we'll make these changes. Even so, meetings of the Supreme Council are conducted in English, as is done in accordance with current legislation. We can't give any reason to bring someone to the Constitutional Court, because you understand what some national MPs here have said, for violating the Rules to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u278	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u279	Because the Constitutional Court is only considering the inadequacy of the Constitution, so, for example, all the laws repealed by the Constitutional Court were annulled only on the basis of a non-personal vote, which is why the Constitutional Court should have submitted them to the Constitutional Court. We really need to put that standard with you in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u280	Thank you. There is no insistence on voting on this amendment, only an exchange of thoughts. Discussion of the amendment in accordance with article 120, paragraph 1, as we note it all the time. The next is 201 amendments, the national MP, Mrs. Boyko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u281	Dear colleagues, this right is proposed in paragraph 2 of the first part of article 7 after the words "city heads" add the word "old age," thus proposed to the list of persons who should speak the national language freely, as well as the elderly. This is related to the fact that according to part. in article 14.1 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the mayor is an elected official of local self-government. According to Part 5 of this article, the mayor is still a member of the executive committee for office. Mikola Leonidovich, if you would like to comment on why such an amendment is not included. And please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u282	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u283	Thank you. According to members of the committee, the mayor’s law makes him an official of local self - government. These individuals are included, and they are covered by the next paragraph of article 3 of this article. Clearly, then, the law provides for an elder to speak the national language as well as other officials of local self - government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u284	Thank you. I'm asking you to define yourself for Amendment 201. [[13:22:25]] For-30 The amendment is not accepted. Next is 202 revisions. Please, the national deputy of Sevrukov requires a word. Please. You don't ask. Let's go. 203. Demands Chervakov. Please, 203.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u285	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. 202 revisions. I would like to express our faction's position that we fully agree with the committee's decision, and we don't understand the desire of some of our colleagues to withdraw privileges for a particular category of people like officials and officials so that they don't know Ukrainian. Indeed, the situation is that knowledge of Ukrainian is a tool for their exercise of their powers and directly representative powers. Colleague Denisenko asks that the amendment be numbered according to the numbering of the draft prepared for the second reading because, from his point of view, there has been a purely technical error. Mikola Leonidovich, I very much ask you to pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u286	Thank you. We will certainly pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u287	Thank you. Next. Musei, please, 203 revisions. Your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u288	Your Honor, I believe that the treatment of the interpretation of the Constitution is still within the competence of the Constitutional Court, not the national MPs. What is more, the first reading voted the rule on national MPs. And it is unknown what decision will be taken by the Constitutional Court regarding the people's deputies. We don't have to think about it constitutionally or unconstitutionally. That is why this editorial committee, where the National Deputies will be removed, will allow them to pass through all kinds of pro-Moscow, unknown to which comrades, whose presiding officers will interrupt and not let them speak Russian, Moscow. That's probably why it's not appropriate. And I think it's appropriate to leave the "national MPs" now, and let them at least go to the Constitutional Court, even though in The Hague, somewhere else. There will be a decision of the Constitutional Court: we will not apply. It won't be. That's why. Then that's what's going to happen, then we're going to initiate changes to the Constitution. So I'd like to ask you for confirmation to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u289	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u290	Dear colleague, this is the only place that enemies of the Ukrainian language, who want to prevent the adoption and repeal of this law, have the right to appeal to the Constitutional Court. We do not know what the Constitutional Court will be like in the future. We hope that he will be patriotic and act in a legal situation, but it may be different. So I ask all of you personally, my colleague Musi, to recognize your political responsibility to future generations, because one word that we can correct by making changes with you to the Constitution may invalidate this law altogether. That's why the national MPs were very careful. Think carefully. Let's maybe leave it, make changes to the Constitution and bring the law into line with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u291	Do they insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u292	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u293	So I'm betting on confirmation of the 203, right? The committee supports it, the committee considers it. Anyone who supports the position of the committee, please vote. [[13:26:10]] For-43 The decision is not made. 204th. Don't insist. 205th. 204, insists, right? Please, Brenzovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u294	Thank you. From part three of the first article 7, delete the words ".persons of local self-government" because their application would violate the equality of constitutional rights enshrined in articles 24, 37, 38 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Sections 2 and 3 of article 7 of the proposed edition violate the equal rights and opportunities of citizens enshrined in, inter alia, articles 24 and 38 of the Constitution of Ukraine and in numerous international treaties, particularly in the European Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of Man. Ladies and gentlemen, you say that if he does not speak English, he cannot fulfill his obligations. Well, it's up to the community that wants to choose him or take him out of office. Translators can also be involved. And now there are high-ranking people in our country who don't speak Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u295	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u296	Well, this law is exactly, and I think it will close those cracks in the legislation that allowed, as you say, some high-ranking people to be in positions without speaking Ukrainian. But I don't think there are any right now, there are those that aren't used, but that doesn't mean they don't own it. And it's obvious that in local self-government, people who work there should know the language, because they should at least read the Ukrainian laws, and they exist and live in the Ukrainian state. How will they read Ukrainian laws without speaking English? How would they represent Ukrainians, the interests of Ukrainians, without speaking Ukrainian? To the extent possible, the committee rejected the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u297	Thank you. Do you insist on voting? I put to the vote the amendment of 204 Brenzowich, which was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:28:10]] For the 10th. The decision is not made. 205, Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u298	Dear colleagues, the 205s are dealt with editorially. I will not insist on her vote, but, nevertheless, please explain, Mikola Leonidovich, the position of the committee, which is not taken into account, that the people who speak the language freely do not include my proposal: "employees of the public authorities who perform the functions of service." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u299	The honourable colleague offered these positions are included in the text of the law. In the case of technical law, the question was also settled as to the placement of appropriate positions in a certain order and in more logical points. I mean, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u300	Thank you. Let's move on. 206th. After 205 amendments, the author has just made a statement. We've just discussed 206 revisions. 205 revisions we just discussed. 206th, Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u301	Colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. Well, since there's a constant abuse of the right to confirm, I want you to. Dear colleagues from. Please continue with my time, as the honourable colleagues of the Environment are clearly undermining the opportunity for the people's deputies to speak. Therefore, since there is a constant abuse of the right of confirmation, I would like to remind you that there is article 31’ under paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Rules, which states that a national MP will be given the right to speak if he has a conflict of interest only after he has declared the conflict of interest. To remind you, a conflict of interest is a contradiction between a private desire and a duty of service. So the people's deputies from the Opposition Block have repeatedly stated publicly that they want to speak in Parliament in the very Ukrainian language. in Russian, in which they were told, and quite right, that this is a violation of Ukrainian legislation. They showed their private interest in discussing the matter in the Supreme Council. I think that every time they ask questions for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u302	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u303	regarding their private interests, they are obliged, in accordance with article 31, paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Rules, to report their conflicts of interest. If they don't, they don't have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u304	Don't you insist on voting? Don't insist. 207th. Don't insist. 208th. He insists. Moses, 208th. Musi, please turn on the button.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u305	Dear head of the committee, you've considered it editorially, but I'm somewhere, unfortunately, I don't see where it's dealt with editorially at all. At all those points about diplomats, embassies and staff working together, it would probably be necessary to apply this rule. Please tell me where it's accounted for. If counted, then I will not insist on confirmation. But separately, I want to thank you, by the way, to you and the committee, that out of the 60 lines that I've given you, one third, 20 lines are counted, I think is absolutely constructive and correct. So it's not the debate that's going on with the Opposition Block, but the constructive debate is going to have to be accepted by both society and Parliament, rather than breaking the absolutely necessary and necessary language law, which is what residents from the Party of Regions are trying to break up in the Supreme Council Hall. I believe that this is unacceptable and unacceptable during the discussion of the Language Law, which is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u306	Please, Mr. Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u307	Thank you. Thank you, fellow Musai. Indeed, these adjustments were taken into account. These positions are included in the Public Service Unit, because according to the Diplomatic Service Act adopted in 2018, diplomatic officials are also civil servants. So since we have government officials on the list, we don't separately separate diplomatic officials, but they're included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u308	He doesn't insist on voting. Thank you. 211th. Give Papiev a microphone. Turn on Papieva's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u309	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, I urge you once again to abide by the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules, and somehow keep your emotions to yourself, because it does not please the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take any offenses and other things. But it's such a question, it's a question of being raised. Dear colleagues, I asked and raised my hand to place on confirmation. And I want to emphasize again under the transcript. Amendment 206 (I wasn't granted this right) 207-y, 208-y, 209-y, 210-y, I would still ask them to be confirmed in accordance with part three of article 120 of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u310	I'm trying to be as tolerant as possible, as tolerant as possible, because I remember when the Khlyenchenka-Kivalova Act was adopted, I had two broken ribs in this room, and your fighters' nose was broken. God forbid, God forbid, you have to wait for me to do something wrong. I am an extremely sound and tolerant Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as I call upon everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u311	It takes a VP decision to get back. We keep moving, we can bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u312	So we're moving on to the next amendment. Two hundred.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u313	11th, no insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u314	Don't insist. 214th. Don't insist. I'm counting the deviations. 220th. Insect insists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u315	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. The committee partly considered the amendment I had proposed. But I insist that not only managers, but also private school staff should use the national language if this private school is financed in part by government or local budgets. Paragraph 14 should therefore be amended as follows: "pedagogical, scientific and scientific personnel have established public and municipal education and other forms of property that receive funding from public and/or local budgets other than foreigners or stateless persons who are invited to education and/or scientific institutions and work on a temporary basis as scientific, pedagogical, scientific and pedagogical workers or lecturers of foreign language." I insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u316	Please, Mr. Mikolo.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u317	Dear Mr. Igor, in essence, suggests that mandatory language requirements be laid down only for public and municipal officials. Why didn't the committee support it? Because all teachers and teachers in general need a level of language. So we're looking at it more broadly. However, in your opinion, the committee predicted that foreign teachers could be involved on a temporary basis, as suggested by the editorial amendment adopted in paragraph 14 of this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u318	Thank you. This is a very important moment that we discussed very widely in the working group. I'll give Vice Prime Minister Viacheslav Kirilenkov a minute. And you will examine whether you will insist on voting, Mr. Igor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u319	Thank you, Mr. Head, although it was claimed here that members of the government were allegedly forbidden to participate in the discussion of legislation, which, of course, is neither in the Constitution nor in the Rules, nor is it close. And we have a coalition government, created by Parliament, and it always works in strict compliance with current legislation. Especially now, unlike you, when you were pushing the criminal law of Kielchenka-Kivalova. With regard to this amendment. Well, the committee is right in almost all its decisions. Although there is a very big point in Mr. Igor Vasyunika's amendment, because we have, according to legislation, all forms of education, including higher education, are equal in our rights. And it would be natural for us to be obliged to speak the language of the State and the leaders and scientists of private higher education institutions. Well, I think, after all, given the overall tonality of this article, the committee came to a balanced approach to the final edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u320	Should we put it to a vote? Let's put it on, okay. I'm voting on the amendment of 220 people's deputies to Vasyunika. The committee turned her down. Whoever supports it, please vote. [[13:37:20]] For-29 The decision is not made. 221st, Brenzovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u321	Thank you, Mr. Head. From part 12 of the first article 7, delete the words: "pedagogical, scientific and scientific staff of educational institutions, as its application will mean a violation of the equality of constitutional rights enshrined in article 24 and is absolutely unfounded to teachers of foreign languages and educators of educational institutions which use regional and minority languages in the educational process."
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u322	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u323	Well, as I said before, we think that all teachers should speak the national language, except for those foreigners who, as we predicted, come to Ukraine temporarily. Therefore, the committee rejected the amendment by colleague Brenzowicz.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u324	I'm sorry. Thank you. I'd like you to define 204 amendments. Which one? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u325	211th. Sorry, 221st.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u326	Oh, I'm sorry. Guys, I'm out of my mind. I'm sorry. 221 repairs. [[13:38:27]] For-13. I'm sorry, for God's sake. 221 amendment, People's Deputy Brenzovic. She was supported by 13 of our colleagues, and she refuses. I'm sorry again. The next amendment, if I'm not mistaken, is 222 for confirmation. Please, Mr. German's microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u327	Dear colleagues, both the Rules and the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy, show that we are full-fledged subjects of legislative procedures, as opposed to the representative represented here by the government. That's the first one. And the second thing I'd like to say. What has been recommended and introduced, such as the amendment, in my opinion, essentially harmonizes the principle of the "all under one ridge". All who work, wherever he works, rely on him for the responsibilities provided for in article 7. And the last thing I want you to do is read article 103, which states that the President has to own, not be free.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u328	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u329	So I would like not to slander the Constitution, to follow its standards harshly, it is what it is, we are obliged to do it. And so I'm asking you to put this on confirmation, the proposed option, 222 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u330	Please, Irina Go ahead as the author of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u331	Dear colleagues! All that has just been said by a colleague from the Opposition Block has no sense at all, no sanity whatsoever, no reference whatsoever to this amendment. This amendment was edited by the committee because it tells us who is obliged to speak the national language. And which group of employees have established education, or invited workers, they are not obliged to apply the standards of this law, which they work temporarily. So it's really hard for me not to comment at all, because this rear angle is easy to get out of here, so if you'll excuse me for Russianism, it's a whole lot of achnea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u332	Thank you. Dear colleagues, however, under the Rules, I am obliged to place amendment 222 on confirmation. Once again, I just want to urge my colleagues, all my colleagues to walk, on these key important days, in discussing the bill, in the session room, to personally vote for the amendments. Please identify yourself and please support, fully support, the committee has provided editorial support. Germany, a national MP, now insists on full support. [[13:41:51]] For-46 46 deputies supported the position of Germany. Let's move on. Next amendment. The offer, yes, the offer of Germany. Thank you very much, Mr. Taras, for the very right trailer, absolutely fair. Mrs. Boyko People's Deputy, 228 amendments, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u333	Dear colleagues, Rule 228 is proposed in Part One, paragraph 12, after the words “training staff” add the words “scientific staff of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, sectoral institutes, scientific institutes, laboratories, etc.”. In my opinion, science should develop in Ukrainian. So I would like to hear why the committee did not consider this amendment. Mikola Leonidovich, please. And please place it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u334	Thank you. Comment by the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u335	Thank you. In considering this amendment, the committee took into account the positions of experts from the Ministry of Education, the Academy of Sciences, the field academy, individual scientists, and international experts. In fact, the amendment is aimed at removing from the public - language circle representatives of private research centers, institutions, and laboratories. But given that the purpose of the law is to preserve and develop Ukrainian language in science, improve Ukrainian terminology, and so on, the committee decided to reject the amendment. Ukrainian scientists are obliged to speak the national language, but disfellowshipping may concern foreigners, as we spoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u336	Thank you. And we're voting now, colleagues, on this amendment. Please be sure, 228th. [[13:43:40]] For-22. The correction is being rejected. The next amendment, if I understand correctly, is 233. Mrs. Boyko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u337	Dear colleagues, it is proposed that paragraph 13 of the first part of article 7 be amended as follows: "medical workers in health institutions of all forms of property." The committee's offering us "medical workers of public, municipal health institutions," not to mention that these are all forms of property. This means that this rule will apply only to state and municipal educational institutions. Please explain and position the committee. And please place it on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u338	Please comment to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u339	In this case, it was similar to that of 232 of Rybczynski’s former colleagues. This amendment, in effect, prohibits the involvement of foreign doctors and other professionals in private medical facilities. So the committee in new paragraph 15 left an editorial supported by Parliament on the first reading. Under it, the responsibility to speak the national language rests solely on the employees of state and municipal institutions, and private institutions may involve any professional, but medical services must be provided in Ukrainian, which will be provided further in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u340	Thank you. I'd like to make my decision on amendment number 228. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:45:22]] For-21 Let's move on. The next amendment is 233, and so is Mrs. Boyko. Please. And then Mr. Kurilo's microphone. 233 now.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u341	She's already been.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u342	Yeah, we didn't support her right now, this amendment. Next up, 234. National MP Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u343	I'd like to explain, please, Mikola Leonidovich, why they rejected the amendment of the People's Deputy Denisenko, which concerns that Ukrainian should be spoken by all doctors, regardless of which institution, whether municipal, state or private. After all, medicine has separated. There are both private institutions, both municipal and state institutions. So doctors, in my opinion, have to speak the national language first of all in order to at least write the right recipes. Because we have the recipe all going out in state language now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u344	Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u345	I have already answered that question. The point is, obviously, medical services are provided in Ukrainian, but we don't want to ban the involvement of experienced doctors from other countries, because sometimes it is necessary to bring some light from Israel, which will, if you're sorry, cure, or bring some cardiologist from Germany here. Private clinics can do that, so we gave them the opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u346	Thank you. Please identify yourself as amended by 234. I'd like to make a statement. Colleagues, I'm going to keep working for 15 minutes so we can go through more revisions today because. [[13:47:22]] For-23 So 23 people's deputies voted in favour. The correction is being rejected. We're at 235th, Branzowich. Please, 235 Brenzovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u347	Thank you. "Paragraph 14 of the first part of Article 7 delete, because its application would violate the equality of constitutional rights enshrined in articles 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine." Paragraph 14 of the first article should be deleted, since its application would violate the equality of constitutional rights and virtually all international legal obligations in the field of human rights. This is pure water discrimination on a language basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u348	Comments on the goals.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u349	We don't think so. We've already explained. I explained this position to the committee on previous amendments by colleague Branzowicz, which applied in the same way. Yes, we feel that the deputies of the local councils cannot fail to speak the national language because they will not be able to carry out their responsibilities fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u350	Thank you. Colleagues, I'm asking you to proceed with the amendment of the People's Deputies of Brenzovich. I look closely at the hall, and then we don't miss any amendments. 235th, please identify yourself. I see, fellows! I'm sorry if I had a minute when I lost my mind. Excuse me! [[13:48:49]] For-7. The correction is being rejected. Next 236. Please give me your word. I'm sorry, 237th, Pavel Kishkar. Please, Mr. Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u351	I thank you for being able to speak. PavlovKishkar, National Movement of Ukraine In fact, unlike Mr. Brenzowich, we support the view of the committee regarding the definition of individual categories, the anchoring of these categories in the body of the law in order to make it impossible for a double interpretation and to send them to a clearly defined category of persons listed in part three of article 3 of the Ukrainian State Service Act is correct and appropriate in this law. Thank you for supporting our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u352	Let's move on. Thank you for your constructive position. We are now 245 revisions, colleagues. No notes? So we wouldn't go back and say I didn't notice anything. [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! How? Sir. You want a 238, huh? Please. The 238 amendment is the Ribchin amendment. It's considered editorially. Mr. Germanko asks for her words, and puts them on the stand. Please, Mr. Germanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u353	I'm not asking you to, but I'm asking you to leave the procedure. The question is, what if it's defined as "prosecutors." Offered. What's "prosecutors"? Prosecutors by their profession, they have names. And a unified package in the law excludes the legal definition of this issue for law enforcement. That's why we call it "prosecutors" and that's it! Let's just write down "state officials" and that's it! And we don't have to rely on all these laws! Well, that's not gonna be true. And that's why I'd like it to be confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u354	Thank you for your position. And I'm betting on confirmation, at the request of Deputy German, 238 amendments, it was taken into account editorially, and I'm putting it, on demand, in full measure. Please. [[1:51:41]] For the 18th. The amendment to Mr. German's edition is not voted on, the hall is not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u355	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u356	For confirmation? Well, in yours, in yours. For confirmation it is not accepted in the hall in full volume, not accepted in the hall. Next, the amendment, Moses, 247th. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u357	Dear Head of the Committee, may I ask you to clarify whether this is a partial consideration of article 9, paragraph 3, where there are government officials or not? And I want to comment on the doctors, you'd like to invite the organizers to the health department before we comment that the foreign doctors who come to Ukraine may not understand them. Without including doctors, you leave Russian in medicine at the request of these licenses: 228, 234. Because doctors who are foreigners have to get special permission and only then they become doctors of Ukraine, and before that they are consultants, they have no relation and there is no risk of understanding or understanding their language. So it's very desirable to go back when there's a final readjustment, a final vote, and leave the requirement to a medical staff who are Ukrainian medical personnel and who have the right to practice medical activities, to vote and.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u358	My colleague Musi, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that doctors are obliged in all forms of clinic property to communicate in Ukrainian, this is expressly prescribed in the law. However, the language was used to support the use of English or a special document — a certificate or a certificate of graduation. We didn't include foreigners here. And communication in all institutions must certainly be Ukrainian. Now for your amendment. We've talked about this before. Yes, the persons defined in the State Service Act are fully listed in this law. We just didn't refer to that law, and we counted it all over here.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u359	Thank you for your clarification. Still. Comrade Musai, are you insisting? No, it's not. You. [[B in m in s a l in]] We just had a discussion. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleague Niemchenko insists that the amendment under discussion be confirmed. It was taken into account editorially, and he insists that it be submitted to the author's version. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:54:51]] Z-11. Let's move on. Now, my friends, me. Let's move on. 248. Mrs. Boyko, this is your amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u360	Dear colleagues! 248 revisions, it's counted. I will not insist that she be put to the vote, however. Paragraph 14 of the first part of article 7 should read as follows: “other public officials and officials of state, municipal enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as other entities of the management of all forms of property”. Once again, I say that it was taken into account, but I do not see what part of the article took into account the position on all forms of ownership. Mikola Leonidovich, please indicate the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u361	Thank you. The amendment has been adopted with technical legal restrictions, which apply only to heads of state and municipal organizations and companies. Private companies can hire managers of anyone, including foreigners or people who don't speak the language. However, the requirements for the use of national language in public spheres, as defined in other articles of this law, are preserved. So we can't invite a private company, we can't ban an expert from abroad, let them invite, but when he's in the public domain, he has to know the national language, otherwise it'll be a violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u362	Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. And the next amendment, 253, will be presented by the national deputy Schwerk. Scroak represents it, 253 revisions. Please. Mr. Sverk raised his hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u363	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u364	I didn't hear you, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u365	I'm opening the edit.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u366	Yeah. Now, now. 253 amendment, it refers to the amendments to article 7 of the law that we are discussing, the bill. Now. Yes, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u367	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u368	Don't insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Deputy Sverkov, I'm asking you to turn on the microphone. He requires 253 words of correction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u369	This is about the need to speak Ukrainian to individuals who are entrepreneurs. It was the work of a colleague of Denisenko's.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u370	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u371	Yeah, that's right. Well, the committee didn't support it, because our law allows natural persons entrepreneurs to be actually foreigners who come here and do something in the non-public sphere. If they're in the public sphere, they have to know language, but to do business in the non-public sphere, please, they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u372	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we ask that we be determined by the amendment of the People's Deputies of Denisenko, who proposes that individuals who are entrepreneurs should speak and communicate in Ukrainian while providing services to Ukrainian citizens. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:58:48]] For-13. The correction is being rejected. 254 revisions. Don't insist. The next amendment is Moses, 258 amendments. Until 9:00. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u373	Your Honor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u374	I'll be right back. I'll be back. I'll be back by 256.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u375	I won't. I won't insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u376	I'll be back, I'll be back. Please, 258. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u377	I'm not going to insist on voting, but I want to comment on what you said about doctors and doctors. In fact, you have left a point regarding the medical staff of public and municipal health institutions. Where are other forms of property? And Colleague Boyko spoke about the medical facilities of all forms of property. So it would be more logical to leave all forms of property, regardless of which. Because the medical field is such an area where it serves, well, practically a huge part of the population of Ukraine. And in the end, there are translators for those who don't know how to speak, and there are translators, and the whole world uses translators when it invites consultants. And there's no problem with a private institution inviting a translator. That is why, please note this, so that we do not leave the gap in the use of Russian in private institutions. I think that's right, after all, when we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u378	Thank you, colleague. I wanted to explain that when we distinguish between public and private institutions, we do not distinguish between the obligation to provide services in Ukraine. It is compulsory for all. We distinguish between the obligation to give a document stating that a person speaks Ukrainian, taught him at school, or passed an appropriate examination at the appropriate center. That's all this is about. To speak English and to provide services in all forms of property. It is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u379	Thank you. A respected colleague of Moses does not insist on his amendment. I promised Mr. German I'd go back to 256, because I didn't notice a raised hand there. And so please, Mr. Germanko, your word. It's your amendment, and it's taken into account. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u380	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to report that in the above-mentioned provisions of this bill, which we are asking to exclude, there is no general understanding of what is free language? So I want to report that this includes both the interpretation of the interpretation, and the perception of the hearing, and the spelling, and the conversational, and everything else, including coming out of the dialects, coming out of the territory of citizens, we have a difference. What do we write these articles about? What can we force people to do? "Who doesn't jump is a moscal!" How? I'd like us to get out of the legal position and out of the legal system of understanding "free." Where you have a definition of what is free and who is freer.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u381	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u382	Who's weaker? The same law defines what positions and classifications of knowledge of Ukrainian. So tell me, does it spread freely or not? How can we adopt a standard that will be doubtful and misused? In order not to allow anything to happen to the authorities but to prevent them from doing their job.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u383	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u384	Thank you. Well, first of all, colleague Germano, I would ask you and the other representatives of the Opposition Block not to use words that offend other peoples, even Russians, even though I understand that this is an aggressor country. But we are a tolerant country. There are different people everywhere. And your amendment is part of the free reign. We've satisfied your claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u385	There's no requirement for Mr. German to vote for his amendment, he just asked her to come back. Next, 257th. Please, Mr. Krivenko, the only candidate currently present for the presidents among the seventeen registered. Please, Mr. Krivenko, 257th. Well, out of the seventeen registered with the national MPs. Please, Mr. Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u386	Thank you. Well, since you raised that question, for justice's sake today, Mrs. Mantis was still with her, we signed a letter to the Academy of Sciences. And after all, I'm officially asking you, is there an application for a vacation on their own account, or are they aspiring at work, even getting budget money in the form of wages and other bills? In fact, it's a question. The Society, I once again urge you to work in factions and to maximize the number of amendments, to raise them, to hold a working meeting with the committee, with Mr. Princess, who is very grateful for the work, because we have only 257 amendments, 2082 of them. Physically, we're not going to get to the position of the Opposition Block that's taking place. So there's no right for them, I don't tell them what position he's taking, everyone understands. We can't just make it. So take as many images as possible, as little text as possible. And I'm asking everyone, because if we don't vote it next Thursday, we won't vote it at all. I demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u387	Thank you, dear colleagues. And we're moving on. I've already announced, colleagues from Self-Help came forward, reminding us of the Rules to continue the work of Parliament in 2 hours 15 minutes so that more rights can pass today. Next 258. Please, National Deputy Musai. Don't insist. Let's move on. 260th National MP Vasjunik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u388	In view of the fact that the text of the bill provides that the National Commission on Public Language Standards approves the requirements for the level of national language ownership of persons who are obliged to own it, as practically reflected in the law, I will not insist on that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u389	Thank you for your constructive position, dear colleague. Pisarenko, 261 repairs. He doesn't insist anymore. Germany, 265 amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u390	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this paragraph provides for the distribution of this law on the free language of the Ukrainian language, and I would like to stress once again: the free language of the Ukrainian language, the structures, the officials in the system, including self-government. Read the Constitution. seventh, Ukraine of our own, the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly states that the Constitution guarantees a system of self-government for citizens. It's not the structures of government that work there, it's self-government, it's the citizens in their status in the right to gather and decide where, what and how to do to protect their interests, and where the question of structures is.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u391	30 seconds to complete. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u392	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u393	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head on the amendment that we are discussing. The committee turned her down.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u394	No, it is. Wait, we've got this.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u395	265th.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u396	Well, it's counted. I don't have any comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u397	I'm sorry. It's just that I've got a little bit of a backlog.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u398	No, I don't have one. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u399	Yes, yes, yes, sorry, colleagues. Washunik, 267th. Don't insist. Germany, 271. It was rejected. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u400	For the same reasons that we've been talking about before, that we can't, in fact, extend to the entire range of social relations, to the entire array of social relationships under a brand that's patriotic in any direction, here you've heard of, or any other interest. We cannot go into violation of the natural rights of citizens. And that's why we're saying that we can't extend to everyone without excluding the legal relationship of the methods of coercion, which is the method of coercion to realize our natural rights, and the restriction in this way is the method of coercion. This contradicts article 22 of the Constitution, and it is already a postulate not only for Ukraine but for the whole of Europe’s society.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u401	Let me finish 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u402	And that's why we're stressing once again that we can't approach one-sided. One principle, one unification and identification of people, are people. I'd like to defend the law, the law of nature, the civil language.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u403	Thank you. Please comment to the committee head on the 271 revision rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u404	The amendment is rejected because the law clearly establishes for which categories of citizens are needed and what form of confirmation of Ukrainian language. There is no free rule in the law. Someone should have a normal high school degree certificate, and senior officials should evidently pass the appropriate examination. Therefore, since this is proposed to be removed, the amendment is rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-03-13-m0.u405	Thank you for your clarification. I'm asking you, we don't have a discussion. We are now voting for your amendment, Mr. Germano, 271. Please. [[14:09:57]] For the five of us. Colleagues, why don't we put a dot? Because we're less and less. Yes. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform all of you that today we have considered a series of amendments to the bill on ensuring the functioning of Ukrainian as a national language (No.5670-d) and have stopped with you for 272 amendments. This is the amendment of the People's Deputy Denisenko. I very much ask all colleagues and authors to be in the session room tomorrow morning at 10 a.m. so that we can continue our meetings and consider our amendments. Today's session I declare closed. I remind my honourable colleagues that today we have a day of committee work and it is very important that there be a quorum and a full consideration of the bill. Thank you all. And I'll see you on Thursday.
