ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, please prepare for work. We are about to begin our evening session. Dear colleagues, prepare for registration, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the national deputies to register. [[16:09:18]] There are 372 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. You're invited. We ask you to take your seats, because we will now consider the bill. Dear colleagues, you have been proposed a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities from Childhood and Children with Disabilities on raising persons with disabilities from childhood care allowance (registrations 2031 and 2031-1alternative). I would like to consider the above-mentioned bill in summary procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, are you ready? Dear colleagues, please support and vote. [[16:10:52]] For 202 Decision taken. The word for the report is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Tsimbaluku Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u3	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, colleagues, distinguished Ukrainian people! We propose for consideration by the members of the Supreme Council a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities on raising persons with disabilities from childhood care allowance (Law No. 2031). The National Deputies of Julia Timoshenko and several other members of our faction. The bill proposes to increase the amount of childcare allowances: persons with disabilities belonging to Group A (that is, Group I) from 75 to 150 per cent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs; persons with disabilities belonging to Group B (that group I) from 50 to 100 per cent of the minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs; persons with disabilities. single persons with disabilities from childhood II and III groups who, according to the medical advisory board, require constant foreign care, from 15 to 75 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. I emphasize that a social project is designed to raise the level of material security for people with disabilities. A few digits. On April 1st, 19th, social assistance to people with disabilities amounts to between a thousand and five hundred sixty-four dollars to three thousand 365, which is for a person with disabilities in subgroup A with a care allowance. You can only imagine how families can survive when a family member is obliged to care for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u4	Finish up, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u5	I ask the National Deputies to respect those families who are called upon to raise and care for such children.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u6	Let me finish. Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head. I'm sorry. To present an alternative bill (registration number 2031-1) is given to the Ukrainian National Deputy to the Royal Natalia Jurijovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition platform for life has prepared an alternative bill, because we believe that today it is essential to raise the level of social protection for people with disabilities. Over the past five years, the authorities have abused these people because not only did they not index payments but they also deprived them of all kinds of social security. And people expect us to take decisive steps with you to make a person with disabilities, especially a child with disabilities, feel protected and supported by the State. The bill that my colleague has just reported is a very good one, but we still suggest that we do it as a first step. In general, there is a need for a significant increase in state social assistance for people with disabilities from childhood and children with disabilities. And that's why we're proposing in our bill. First. This will double the level of state social assistance for persons with disabilities from childhood I, II, III groups and children with disabilities, as defined by the current standards of Law 2109. The other one. This will double the amount of care allowance for persons with disabilities in subgroups A and B and I of the group and children with disabilities defined by the current rules of Law 2109. Third. For persons with disabilities from Childhood II, the third group, who, according to the medical advisory board, require constant foreign care, increases the allowance from 15 per cent to 75 per cent of the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs. Now they're really going to help people get even the social support they need to buy drugs for the rehabilitation process, and so we're going to propose and vote for both the first and the second bill that we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u8	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u9	So that we can begin today to face a complex solution to the problems of people with disabilities and children with disabilities. Today, this is one of the most important issues of social protection. Thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u10	Thank you. The report is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans’ Rights to the Third Party Galina Mikolayovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u11	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 16 October 2010, the Committee on Social Policy and Veterans' Rights considered a bill on State social assistance for persons with disabilities from childhood and children with disabilities on the promotion of persons with disabilities from childhood care allowance (registration number 2031), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Timoshenko, Cimbaluk and others, and an alternative bill (number 2031-1), submitted by the Ukrainian People's Deputies of the Kingdom and the Solod. The bill, reported by Mikhail Mikhailovich Zimbaluk, is increasing. is proposed to increase the amount of care allowance for persons with disabilities since childhood. One of the government's strategic objectives today, as stated in the Government's Action Programme, is to improve public policy in the area of social protection and to increase the level of financial security for people and persons with disabilities, as well as those who care for them. National deputies, members of the committee, supporting legislative initiatives aimed at strengthening the social protection of persons with disabilities, expressed their position on a step - by - step increase in the amount of the care allowance. The Ministry of Social Policy, which was present at the committee meeting, supported this position and was ready to calculate the changes to the state budget in order to provide allowances for such care. The committee decided to recommend to Parliament the results of the first reading of the bill to adopt registration number 2031 as a basis. In preparing the bill for the second reading, the final decision will be taken by the committee, taking into account the position of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, request to register with factions: two in favour, two in opposition. Cimbaluk Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Mikhail Mikhailovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u13	Thank you, Mr. Head. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the head of the Committee of Social Policy, on the matters of the veterans of Mrs. Trelyakow Galina. I want to thank all the members of the committee, for it has indeed brought together representatives of various political forces around the problem, a problem that exists in many Ukrainian families. According to recent statistics, over 161 thousand families have children with disabilities from childhood. And I would like to thank Mrs. Queen, who has also united efforts through the sacrifice of her bill to make this bill a law. Thank you all. And please vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u14	Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u15	Thank you. In fact, it's the right thing to do, and it's logical, because we're a social state and we're moving towards it, but it's interesting to hear and see where the pay raises are going to come from. That's the first one. And the second. Besides, when we talk about pay raises, and once again we're talking about "fishing, not poles," it's good that both the legislators and the colleagues who are working on it and taking care of it can still look for a way of socializing children who have to be cared for or cared for by their parents. So that during the day you can go to specialized schools or to spend time and so that your parents can go to work. So it's a much more complex, bigger and more global, a more complex program this time. And two. We need to think about an inclusive society, starting with the front door and ending with organizations, education and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u16	Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u17	Good afternoon, colleagues! I want to say that this bill is very important. Because, unfortunately, we have a very difficult situation for parents who care for their children with disabilities and also for those with disabilities. And unfortunately, those social benefits that are at the moment, they don't even cover the basic drugs. That's why we, the faction of European Solidarity, will support this bill. And we think it's very important that you all support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u18	Batenko Taras Ivanovich, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u19	Please give the floor to Ms. Irina Konstankevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u20	Irina Miroslavna Konstanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u21	The "For the Future" group, which is made up of national MPs -- majors and represents more than 4 million voters in Ukraine -- thinks that the legislative initiative is the right one, the most necessary one. But at the same time, it's just part of solving a big problem. First of all, I would like to point out that in the eighth session. In calling parliament, we took the first steps towards inclusion. Unfortunately, the inclusion in education is present, but it is not present in preschool education. So we need to move on. The second problem is the size of funding. And the money we provide for this bill is unfortunately small and will not solve problems of a social or health nature. Next, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Ukrainian Institute of Strategic Research predicts an increase in the number of children with disabilities next year to 200,000. So we have to budget more in the 20th year. I ask you to take these aspects into account and we support Bill 2031 at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues. I see. We've got one show left. Request to prepare for the vote. From Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Platform for Life." Then we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u23	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, this is an important bill. I would just like to draw your attention and draw your attention to some of the differences and why the bill of the Royal People's Deputy is more lenient and should be voted for. In the first bill, you're just raising the allowance for care, but you're not solving the main problem of these people -- you're not increasing or increasing the amount of government aid at all, and you're letting them live on this coined state aid again. And now the situation is that we're going to have to support this money bill of yours first, because it's hard to explain that there's nothing going on. But notice, we need to raise the basic payout right now -- that's state social assistance, not just care. We will vote on both the first and the second bills, and our Opposition Platform for Life supports them.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities, on the promotion of persons with disabilities from childhood care allowance (registration number 2031). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:25:23]] For 324 Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. "The Servant of the People" is 220, "The Opposition Platform for Life" is 26, "European Solidarity" is 20, "The Fatherland" is 14, "For the Future" is 10, "The Voice" is 16, "the Non-factional" is 18. Thank you. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next issue of the agenda. You are invited to consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (registration number 0001). It is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:26:22]] For 266 Decision taken. The report is given by Hodakovsky’s Deputy Finance Minister, Pavel Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Governments of Ukraine and the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (FATCA). The agreement was concluded on February 7, 2017, in Kiev. The agreement foresees that it contains requirements for foreign financial organizations, such as monitoring the availability of accounts that are opened by U.S. taxpayers in Ukrainian financial organizations and informing the U.S. tax office about them. According to article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the treaty is subject to ratification. The ratification of the agreement will allow the internal state procedures necessary for the agreement to take effect in relations between the two countries. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional budgetary funding. That is why we propose and ask for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u26	Thank you. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, Yaremenek Bogdan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Foreign Policy and Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation, at its meeting on 9 October 2019, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (FATCA) and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on the basis and in general. The purpose of the draft legislative act is to ratify the Ukrainian-American Inter-Governmental Agreement of 7 February 2017 in Kiev, which will increase compliance with the requirements of international tax legislation in the relations between Ukraine and the United States and will ensure that the provisions of the FATCA Act are applied on the basis of internal reporting and automatic exchange of information in accordance with the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the United States of America on the avoidance of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital taxes and the Protocol thereto, which was deposited in Washington on 4 March 1994. The ratification of the agreement will provide the legal basis for the disclosure by banks of information on U.S. taxpayers' accounts in Ukrainian financial institutions in cases and in terms of the scope of the agreement. According to an explanatory note signed by the finance minister of Ukraine, the implementation of the law does not require additional budgetary funding. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the treaty can be ratified. Please have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u28	Thank you, Bogdan Vasilovich. Please register: two in, two in the opposite, from factions. Ironman Jaroslav Ivanovich, Voice.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! The Voice faction will vote for this ratification, that's an important change. Unfortunately, we promised to ratify it a few years ago, and for a long time we had a process of agreeing to these changes. Unfortunately, once again this does not apply to Ukrainian citizens, this is exactly what is happening to citizens of the United States. But this is a fine example of how another State makes sure that all taxes, including those in not only the United States, are paid. And in a sense, it's a good example for our country, how we can fill out our executions if we follow and make our tax terms more extensive for our activities, including outside our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u30	Thank you. Danilo Alexandrovich Getmantsev, "Slut of the People" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u31	Thank you. I ask you to support the decision to ratify this agreement. This is about the exchange of tax payers from the United States with Ukraine between Ukraine and the United States of America. By the way, until this agreement, we also propose to support the two bills that we have in order of the day. And in fact, this is the mechanism that will not only allow us to reveal information about U.S. taxpayers, about their income they receive in Ukraine, but also to launch those mechanisms that will eventually allow our government, our State Tax Service, to get information about the assets and assets of our citizens that they're still hiding abroad. So these are the simple steps that we've been talking about in the parliamentary and presidential elections for so long. And I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u32	Thank you. Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u33	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, are they still willing to speak? Then I ask you to prepare, after Oleg Anatoliyovich has spoken, let us proceed to the vote. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, in fact, we will, of course, support our faction to ratify this convention. But the question is different. The question is, what we don't have to do in this room today is look like there's nothing going on in the Ukrainian-American relationship. Regrettably, Ukraine has entered the US presidential campaign in 2016 and has inherited this problem to the current government, unfortunately, Ukraine today is extremely toxic to both parties that dominate American politics today. This problem cannot be ignored. We have today, in fact, a ruined normal dialogue between Ukraine's strategic partners and the United States, because we're just being used as pedestrians in a political game in the United States. And we believe that the Ukrainian Parliament should assume responsibility for conducting a full investigation into the possible involvement of the previous Ukrainian authorities in the 16th year electoral campaign. As long as Parliament does not take this responsibility and create an appropriate interim commission of inquiry here, it will interfere with the organization of Mr. Greensky's full-time visit to Washington, and it will impede the development of our relationship with these scandals, because today Ukraine is simply walking into this game. I hope that you will have the support of the "Serve of the People" faction in the first place. We need to work out together what happened in the 16th year, what actions were actually performed by Ukrainian citizens, officials to take advantage of their capabilities, including in law enforcement agencies, to intervene in the American electoral campaign. If that doesn't happen, we'll still be used. So I hope that Parliament will declare its firm position and demand that the law enforcement agencies conduct a full investigation into all the facts of the intervention in the 16th American elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, there are no more willing to speak? Please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. I am voting for the adoption of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (Registration No. 0001). Please support and vote. [[16:35:39]] For 310 Decision taken. The law was passed in general. Dear colleagues. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 214, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 24, "European Solidarity" – 21, "Fatherhood" – 12, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 16, "non-fractional" – 12. Dear colleagues, there have been statements from two factions asking for a break. Vadim Evgenovich Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u37	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. First of all, I wanted to thank my colleagues at the Future Group and my colleagues at the House of Fathers. This is the normal position when we can go out to the people and, believe me, prove to you the requirements that people place on the square before the Supreme Council. I want to remind you that the last thing that power can accomplish is that teachers can go through almost 3,000 hours after work and tell their demands. But for the time being, the resolution of a peaceful public action to protest the narrowing of the rights and guarantees of educational rights. "We, as participants in a peaceful public organization, protest against the authorities' intentions to narrow labour and socio-economic rights and guarantee educational institutions instead of fulfilling the requirements of article 61 of the Education Act." The state is constantly saving in education. The total amount of education expenditure in government and local budgets for the 20th year is projected at 5.6 percent of GDP. This is a reflection of the national priorities and the residual principle of financing, which is to be at least 7 percent. No expenditure is taken into account for the implementation of the Ordinance of the Cabinet of Ministers on the Paying of Scientific and Scientific Educators and Educational and Scientific Institutions, which provides for the establishment of a staff member's salary for the lowest qualification category of 2.5 living minimum. Colleagues, article 7 of the bill, provide a minimum of two thousand 102 bracelets for working persons, although according to the Ministry of Social Policy, they are 4 thousand 732 bracelets. The minimum wage is proposed to be set at 4 thousand 723 bracelets, even lower than the actual minimum wage. In the draft budget of the 20th year, the costs of educational subsidies for teaching staff in Kiev are limited. So the education community that came out, they're asking the Supreme Council to join us: first, to anticipate education costs of at least 7 per cent; second, to ensure that the requirements of article 61 of the Education Act for the establishment of a minimum wage of at least 3 minimum wages are met; third, to amend the Labour Code, the Labour Code, the Labour Code, the Law on the exclusion of minimum wage payments, allowances, bonuses, rewards and other payments; fourth and last, to take account of the introduction of the Total Secondary Education Act, including the observation of educational professions, namely the non-admission of teaching workers to term contracts, employment contracts, the abolition of allowances for check-outs, class management.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u38	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u39	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, the introduction of compulsory certification for the opportunity to engage in pedagogical activities in secondary education establishments, the introduction for teachers of a 40-hour working week.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, let's stick to it. Ten seconds and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u41	Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity to express your position as an educator. And I want to say, let's join the budget formation and let our teachers not be ashamed of each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u42	Another statement is from two factions with a replacement for the performance. Mikhailo Leontijovich Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to turn to the political power of "European Solidarity" and as a member of the fighting, as a boy who lost his brothers in the Lugansk Stanica during the battle, where the troops are now divorcing, I want to correct this tendency that locals are asking to withdraw troops. We get, I don't want to read, which village councils and who signed, but I'm going to read, that's exactly what I'm going to call President Vladimir Zelensky of Ukraine. "We, MPs, are at a session of the rural council, which took place on 18 October 19th, having considered the appeal of the inhabitants of our village council, expressly against the withdrawal of forces and resources from the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other law-abiding bodies of the Ukraine military law enforcement authorities, special appointment by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the National Police of Ukraine, the Ukrainian intelligence authorities from the borders of temporarily occupied territories in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. At present, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are protecting our people, making it possible for authorities, educational and medical institutions, shops, post offices, shops, shops, and so forth. We ask you, Mr. President, not to ignore our appeal and to make an appropriate decision that will protect the interests of all your constituents, of all Ukrainian citizens." I ask you to listen just before and realize that there are no conditions under which troops can be divorced. And these criminal orders that are now given to our boys to leave these positions that we've been fighting since we were 14 years old, with the losses we've won, now they're taking them out into a clean field -- that's a shame, you can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u44	Thank you. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Dear colleagues, you are invited to consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (Registration No. 2102). It is suggested that this bill be considered in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Please support and vote. [[16:43:28]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, a word for the report is given to Hodakovsky Paul Viktorovich, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u45	Dear Dmitre Alexanderovich, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for voting in favour of the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. The need for amendments to a number of legislative acts is duly ratified, including the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and the application of the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (FATCA). In particular, the draft law provides for amendments to the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine to the disclosure of banking secrecy, information on legal and natural persons containing banking secrecy will be made available by banks in cases and in the scope defined by the FATCA Agreement and other valid international agreements containing provisions on the exchange of information for tax purposes. It is also proposed to amend the Ukrainian Depository System Act in part of access to information contained in the Depository Accounting System. The information contained in the Depository Accounting System will be provided in cases and in terms of the scope defined by the FATCA Agreement and other valid international treaties. The proposed amendments to Ukraine's legislation will allow further accession to the multilateral agreement of the competent authorities on automatic exchange of information on the financial accounts of the MCAA SRS. The subjects of the contract are the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, the State Tax Office. Accordingly, we ask for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u46	Thank you. The first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax, and Customs Policy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich, is given the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, thank you, first of all, for supporting the ratification that was just now. These bills that we're going to introduce to you are bills that implement these very norms. Again, they do not apply to Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately or fortunately, these are the standards that the United States has set for itself to see their citizens pay their taxes. Perhaps each of you, when filling out some data in the bank, has already filled in the graph as to whether you are a United States tax agent. It's like our banks, without waiting for any changes to the legislation, that's what they're doing. So in fact, what's now going to be proposed is to consolidate that legal status and enable the transfer of information to our tax office in the United States, again, about the citizens of the United States. And in the future, if there are other information-sharing agreements, then Ukraine will join them and be able to exchange information. After considering this bill, 2102, our committee, the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, decided to recommend it to be adopted in the first reading and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u48	Thank you. Please register: two in, two in the opposite, from factions. Juršin Jaroslav Romanović.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u49	Can I get out of here? Thank you very much. In fact, it's good to set and practice better mechanisms for actually development and such a question as avoidance from actually tax avoidance, that the United States gives us a very good example in that direction. Of course, I would like such standards to be applied to Ukrainian citizens, because in fact, now, for example, in a different direction, in the direction that you're going from abroad, it's very often very difficult to meet all the financial requirements. So let's take this as a first step and welcome this first step. But we need the same mirroring procedures so that our citizens don't have to prove after six months or more that they didn't avoid paying taxes, and all taxes abroad at the time of their work were paid adequately. We support the proposal and we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u50	Nikolainko Andri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u51	Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u52	Belkova Olga Valentinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u53	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Belkova, Fatherland. Well, of course, colleagues, we'll also support this bill, and the next one. The only thing I'd like to do is disagree a little bit with some colleagues who said that this bill doesn't directly affect Ukrainian citizens. That's why I don't agree. The fact is that the American law really directly requires the disclosure of information about American citizens. At the same time, America is a very specific strategic partner for us and for all the countries that sign these agreements and ratify the respective agreements, and they offer an incentive for countries, including citizens from those countries. Yes, as a result of the adoption of these laws, I very much hope that Minfin will be used to work with colleagues from the United States, which will allow Ukrainian citizens to avoid double taxation. And that's why Fatherland, who cares about the interests of its taxpayers, will be unreservedly supported. At the same time, if we look at some comments from the Chief Executive, and I respect their work on such important issues as banking secrecy, depository matters, we would still like to see the adoption of this law in the first reading and the next one in the same way. With this motivation, we will be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u54	Thank you, Olga Valentine's Day. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit more to you what we're taking in right now. Because in fact, Bill 2102 is amending two laws, the Ukrainian Banking and Banking Act, and the Ukrainian Depository System Act. And it is complemented by just one paragraph on how banking secrecy about legal and natural persons is revealed. And here's the first part of this paragraph right over here, that's the requirements of the United States ratified agreement right there, and the second part directly tells us what we need to make. we should also make other international agreements that contain provisions on the exchange of information for tax purposes, which are binding on or concluded by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of interdisciplinary agreements. The disclosure procedure is established by the National Bank. This means that, in addition to the disclosure of bank secrecy by accounts of non-residents, there are grounds for the transfer of such information to the competent authorities of other countries, with the appropriate mutual receipt by Ukraine of information on the bank accounts of Ukrainian citizens opened in other countries. It's all good. We're really starting to automatically exchange information. We're the only ones with a spoon. Is our State Tax Service ready to accept such information, and will it be ready for such information? You see, this is about all legal and physical persons. Last summer we were in Georgia. They have been preparing for the format of the adoption of this information in conjunction with the European Union for more than 7 months. This is their technical equipment, their desire, and their lack of corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u56	Ten seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u57	That's why I'm here. Indeed, there is an entirely new period in the activities of our legal and physical persons. So I want the Ministry of Finance to take immediate action.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have our last speech. Then we go to the vote. Request to invite national MPs. The word is given to Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Out of place, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u59	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You see, once again, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, instead of working to raise the social security of Ukrainian citizens, has now come into the position of "whatever you choose." And let's start by saying that as early as 1994, there were contracts signed between the Ukrainian Government and the United States Government in accordance with the FATF requirements. And today, I am grateful to Nina Petrovna, who explained in a very clear language that these laws apply more than just to the residents of the United States. If you want to make sure of that, I would like to ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to read the findings of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, if we thoughtlessly vote on this bill and generally vote on it, it will refer not only to the disclosure of the banking secret of the United States residents, but also to non-residents and legal and natural persons, and it may have very serious consequences, it is necessary to prepare for such things. And we need Ukraine to understand, at the end of the day, that in addition to what you choose, we need to think first of how to organize the lives of Ukrainian citizens, how to protect them, how to become patriots of Ukraine, not patriots of some United States resident, even with respect to them. Given that there are several residents of the United States of America in the government and in this Supreme Council, I think we're even going to vote on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u60	Hetmans with motives are a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u61	Thank you. On the subject of a spoon that has been pointed out by our distinguished colleagues. Indeed, this law allows for the automatic exchange of information with more than a hundred countries in the world who are already having such an automatic exchange about the assets of our citizens that they are hiding abroad. And the honourable opposition must know that in order for us to start this process, we must first adopt this law, and then within a year, or as long as it takes, we must introduce it. It's a normal thing when we know about money, about assets that our citizens are hiding abroad, and we're also reporting on the funds that foreign citizens are hiding here. It's an automatic exchange of information that works in most countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote, ask to take our seats. I would like to propose a proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts. Please prepare for the vote. Based, based on. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[16:57:08]] For the 320. Decision taken. Show me the factions, please. 221 – Servant of the People, Opposition Platform – Life – 14, European Solidarity – 22, Fatherhood – 14, Future – 14, Voice – 18, non-fractional – 17. Dear colleagues, the committee recommended that the whole be accepted. Against? In general, are we ready to vote? No, it's not. Okay. Here's a suggestion: let's cut in half the preparation period for the second reading. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half the deadlines for preparing proposals and rights and preparing for the second reading of the bill (register No. 2102). Please support and vote. [[16:58:18]] For 268. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, next question. You have been proposed a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the United States Government to improve the implementation of the tax rules and to apply the provisions of the U.S. Law on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts (Registration No. 2103). Let's talk about the question, and I'll give it out of the procedure. Dear colleagues, it is suggested that this issue be considered in a simplified manner. Please support and vote. [[16:59:15]] For the 250. Decision taken. The procedure is Šufrich Nestor Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u63	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, considering that this issue is the subject of the previous two issues, I propose that we vote without discussing it in the first reading and on the basis of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, there is a fine offer to vote without discussion. So please prepare for the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, wait, there was an offer without discussion. Let's vote, 226 votes if there's no discussion in the room. [[Noise Nodes]] Look, Arthur Volodymyrovich, we're delaying the process. [[B in m in s a l in]] And all the other factions offer without discussion. Perhaps you will listen to your fellow Members of Parliament? Let's do it for the lady's sake. [[Noise Nodes]] Okay. All right, Arthur Volodymyrovich, we'll continue tomorrow. I give the floor to Deputy Finance Minister Hodakovsky Paul Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u65	Honourable Dmitre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, along with amendments to the Banking and Banking Act and the "On the Depositary System of Ukraine" ratification of the FATCA also requires amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code. The proposed changes under this draft amendment to the Tax Code are intended to be determined accordingly. the definition of "sub-account and its owner", "financial agent" and "financial account", the characteristics of reporting on accounts, collection and receipt of tax information by financial agents' control bodies, the imposition of a non-payment fine, the filing of infringements or with unreliable information or errors in the accounts reports, other precise positions. The proposed changes have already been noted in legislation that will allow the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank, and the State Tax Service to further join the multilateral agreement of the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial accounts. The adoption of this bill will allow us to fully implement the agreement that we have just ratified. So we would like to support this bill to amend the Tax Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u66	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance, Tax and Customs Policy, Železniak Jaroslav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u67	Dear colleagues, we continue to discuss FATCA, this is a change to the Tax Code. We had a long discussion on the committee on these issues and there were technical comments written in the committee's decision, but as there is a desire for a hall on the ground, we ask that we support this bill simply on the basis of development and technical law. And the request to shorten the time of consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u68	Thank you, Jaroslav Ivanovich. Please sign up: two-for-two-against, those factions that would like to come forward. Or one faction that would like to speak. Zinkevich Jan Vadimovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u69	Jan Zinkevich, "European Solidarity." Ninja Jujanini.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u70	Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! I'd like to ask you to take a closer look at this bill. He's one of the most important things we've been taking in the last 50 days. So you'll understand very well that we're giving our tax authorities new rules, new possibilities and part of the administration to the definition of the taxpayer's responsibility. I would just like to point out that these rules of automatic communication were developed back in 2008, and those countries that immediately joined the automatic exchange are, of course, already having a huge gain. Although they started in 2008 with 40 bilateral swap agreements, at the end of 2018 there are over 4,000 500 contracts between 90 jurisdictions based on this automatic exchange of the new SRS format. And what has this given to countries that have been brought together automatically? According to the results of the 18th year, this information on beneficiaries is about 4.9 trillion euros. In addition, some 95 billion euros were budgeted. But Ukraine, since one of the last ones joins such an automatic exchange, I just want you all to understand that such authorizations can only be given to our controlling authorities when they are ready to do so. So once again, I urge all forces to concentrate, first of all, on the protection of such information. Secondly, before it's automatically used, not for the discretion of the taxpayers, but as in all other countries, a system of automatic integration into the so-called tax system has been built.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u72	Thank you, Nina Petrovna. Dear colleagues, is further discussion necessary, or can we proceed to the vote? Shall we go? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code in connection with the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the United States of America to improve the implementation of the tax rules and the application of the U.S. Act on Tax Requirements for Foreign Accounts. Please prepare for the vote (registration 2103). Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Please support and vote. [[17:07:15]] For 295 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 215, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 13, "European Solidarity" – 19, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 8, "Voice" – 15, "non-factional" – 12. Huh? And, dear colleagues, there was an offer from our colleagues and Jaroslav Ironman to cut the procedure by half. So please prepare for the vote. In accordance with part two of article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I am voting on the proposal to cut back on half of the sentences and allowances and prepare for the second reading of Bill No. 2103. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:08:25]] For 248 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been proposed a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border (registration number 0905), which is a second reading. The word is given to the head of the National Security, Defence, and Intelligence Committee of Zdeby Jury Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u73	Honourable Chairman, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! I suggest that you consider the draft Act amending certain legislative acts on engineering and maintenance of the state border of Ukraine (registration No. 0905), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading and prepared by the Committee on State Security, Defence and Intelligence in the form of a comparative table to the second reading. The aim of the bill is to create the right conditions for the state border engineering and security of Ukraine with neighbouring States, notably the Russian Federation, namely to ensure that the State Border Service carries out tasks for the protection and protection of the state border through the regulatory and legal determination of the size of land areas provided to the authorities of the State Border Service of Ukraine for the construction, installation and maintenance of engineering facilities, fences, border signs, border crossings, communications and other facilities of border infrastructure of 30-50 metres wide, as well as the release of these bodies in connection with the loss of agricultural and forestry production. The current nature of this bill is that no legal act defines the size of land that is given to the military parts of the Ukrainian State Border Service for the creation of border infrastructure. There are also lands on the border today that are covered by article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence, which are owned by the State, mainly on the border with post-Radians and private property. These lands can be divided into two categories. The first is the land that is put in breach of existing legislation or illegally captured. Such facts take place on the border of the former Soviet Union. The land is also legally acquired, and it is torn apart. Such facts take place on the border with the post - Soviet states. Honourable National MPs, I stress that Ukrainian-Russian, Ukrainian-Belarusian, Ukrainian-Moldovian district of the state border, are owned by agricultural enterprises and, in some cases, other areas, which are practically scattered along the state border and already have property rights in place without taking into account the requirements of article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Lands of Defence. And so the adoption of this law by Ukraine will determine the legal mechanism for resolving issues with landowners, residents of border areas, will lead to the unification of the law of Ukraine to the legislation of the neighbouring states, where these issues have been settled since the 1990s. In view of the above, a comparative table is prepared in the second reading, and 10 amendments are all accepted. I ask the people's deputies to vote in favour of this bill as a whole. The report was completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I'm not mistaken, here are all the adjustments and suggestions that were made in preparation for the second reading. I'd like to give you a minute of the motive for Nikiforenko Volodymyr Stepanovich and. Who? What's the matter? No, I'll give it to you after Nikiforenko. And let's go to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's vote. Well, there's no motive here. If there's an adjustment, let's do it straight. None. Then let's vote. Please give your word to the deputy head of the State Border Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u75	Thank you. Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the purpose of the act is to regulate the issue of the allocation to the State Border Service of 30-50 metres wide to form quality border infrastructure within the border and controlled border area. So this law, if adopted, will define both the legal mechanisms for resolving the disputes that have already been discussed and will lead to the unification of Ukrainian legislation with the neighbouring countries where these issues have long been resolved. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I suggest we proceed to the vote and let the State Border Service go to work faster. I am betting on a second-reading vote and, in general, on the necessary technical and legal regulations, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on engineering and maintenance of the state border (registration No. 0905). I can't hear you. All the changes are accounted for. Dear colleagues, we are about to go to the vote. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:14:41]] For 288 Decision taken. The law is passed in general. Thank you. Show by factions. People's Party 218, Opposition Platform – Life 1, European Solidarity – 19, Fathers – 12, Futures – 11, Voice – 14, non-fractional – 14. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. You have been given a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use (registration No. 0869). The report is given to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Environmental Use by Andrievich Zinovija Miroslavovich. But, dear fellows, don't break up, there's very little line.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u77	Good day, Your Honor, dear friends, dear Ukrainians! For consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the second reading introduces a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on ensuring that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use (registration No. 0869). Article 13 of the Ukrainian Constitution provides that the earth and its entrenched atmosphere, water and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, the natural resources of its continental shelf, and the maritime economic zone are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. Every citizen has the right to use natural property in accordance with the law. Draft Ukrainian Law adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 February 2015. The bill aims to ensure that citizens have the constitutional right to use natural objects — the right to property of the Ukrainian people; the creation of real legal mechanisms for free and free access by citizens to the shores of water objects for general use; the release of coastal protection lines from fences or other structures that prevent citizens from accessing the waterfront, the introduction of a mechanism for dismantling them; and the promotion of civilised and responsible use of coastal protection lanes. The bill provides for amendments to Ukraine’s Water and Land Codes, administrative offences, Ukraine’s laws on local self-government in Ukraine and local government administrations. Restrictions on the rights of general use are prohibited in connection with the provision of coastal protection lanes for the use of legal and physical persons. Changes to Ukraine’s Earth Code propose banning fences or other structures that hinder citizens’ access to waterfronts. The bill provides for administrative responsibility for the illegal restriction of unhindered or free access to the seashore, sea coves, lemons and islands in inland sea waters within the beach zone, as well as to the banks of rivers, waters and islands for general use, except in cases provided for by law. In accordance with article 116 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, amendments were made within 14 days of the introduction of the bill into the agenda. Of these, 54 are included in 48, including editorially and partially, 6 are rejected. The Committee on Environmental Policy and Use at its meeting on October 9, 2019, decided to introduce to the Supreme Council the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on the Unhindered Access of Citizens to the Coast of Water Objects for General Use.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u78	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u79	But his acceptance in the second reading and in general as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please don't break up with me. Edit 8, Feldman. Don't insist. 15th, Feldman. 17th, Lucenko. 39th, Bondarenko. 39th, Bondarenko. 40th, Lucenko. 54th, Labunska. Do you insist? Please turn on the Labunski microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u81	I thank my dear colleagues that almost 10 lines, 9 out of 10 are included. But we did have a discussion, and yet we do have in this law a clearly undetermined body that will be responsible for controlling the dismantling. I'd still like to go back and put my turn to the vote. Thank you. Just so it doesn't work out, the law won't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u82	Again, I'm sorry, I didn't hear the last phrase.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u83	I ask for an amendment to be put to the vote because that is precisely the case. And support her, because that's what this is about. 54th. The same applies to determining the body responsible for dismantling. Because we may have a good law, but it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u84	Yes, dear fellows, license number 54. Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u85	The position of the committee is to reject the fact that the structures that are illegally installed will be dismantled by the owner of the structure itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm putting the number 54 of the national deputy of Labunski to the vote. It was not counted by the committee, and now it needs to be voted on. Please identify and vote. [[17:21:16]] For 105 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, we can cross, can't we? Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u87	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Once again, I want you to pay attention. For this law to work, and it really does have to be a responsible body. Because within 10 days of the adoption of this law, the owner of this fence is required to dismantle it at the request of the local administration or at the request of the executive authority. If he does not dismantle it, who is responsible for the dismantling? So it's important that you support this right so that this law works. This law protects the rights of people who want to have easy access to water, rivers, and so forth. Let's support, let's go back to Labunski's work and support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u88	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? What's that? No, it's not. We voted it out, we're not coming back, Vadim Evgenovich. No, it's not. We can't go back to editing. The word is given to Deputy Minister Rybczyn Aleksija Mikhajlovich, a minute of motivation. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u89	From Minecoenergo, we thank the MPs for the quality of the bill to those who applied. The Ministry supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u90	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u91	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The faction of the political party "The Opposition Platform for Life" will support this bill and vote in the second reading because we are in favour of having the citizens of Ukraine have their legitimate constitutional right to use water. But in all of this, I'm still drawing your attention and attention to the committee. You must have someone there with the experience of working in the local executive branch, and you are rightly told by the national deputy Labunska that there must be an authority authorized to do so if the owner does not want to do so. Although you have not even heard this perfectly logical request. Our faction will support this law even with the shortcomings it is with, because we will first vote for our people, for their constitutional rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u92	Luschniak. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u93	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, as a result of the last 10 years, we have had a catastrophic situation with access to water, which is essentially state-owned. And today our constitutional right must be protected so that all people can have access. What happened? The fences, the shore-reinforcing buildings, which today do not allow easy citizens access to any of them. to any water supply in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this law has come to light since 2005. I ask you to support it, the law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, have all those who wish to speak? Let's go to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. "The Voice" yet? Bobrovska Solomija Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u95	Thank you very much. All the right things. Perhaps the inhabitants of Mikolayev and so on and so on, and the Donetsk region will be happy to finally reach the sea, the lemons, and so on. But the question is, Who will dismantle the defenses of these buildings that are built by humans? This time. The other one. Actually, it doesn't solve the complex issue yet. Because there's a variety of things going on right in the area of the sanitary area, the sanitation area, and so on and so forth. I would like to see the city of Odessa and, in particular, the Road of Health in full access to the coastline. Otherwise, as was the 15th year when the head of the administration carried his own hands on the building. And I'm very sorry that the amendment wasn't supported. Thank you. Who works in local or local administrations knows that very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u96	Thank you. No, we're not going to re-vote the bill, we're going to break the Rules. If you make any proposals for a change in legislation, we will vote. There is no such procedure as a return, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And the committee is asked to study more carefully those adjustments that are taken into account or not. Please prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading and, in general, with the necessary technical and legal rights, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have free access to the coast of water objects for general use (registration No. 0869). Please support and vote. [[17:27:47]] For 314 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed in general. Show the factions, please. "People's Servant" – 228, "The Opposition Platform – Life" – 13, "European Solidarity" – 19, "The Fatherhood" – 11, "For the Future" – 11, "The Voice" – 16, "the non-fractional – 16. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question of order, order of the day, that's it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you a minute to speak to Raducci Mikhail Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Stefanisina, our colleague from the Voice Party, has already told us about the situation in Ukraine today with diphtheria. Thus, the National Health Committee, through the leadership of the Supreme Council, organizes a free diphtheria vaccine at 2.30 p.m. at the Supreme Council Medical Center on its way to the buffet. Request: Anyone who wishes to be vaccinated by diphtheria and his own example to show the country that it is absolutely necessary to avoid the epidemic, please write to the National Health Committee Secretariat. At 2:30 a.m., we have a copy of the passport and a copy of the identification code. 2:30 P.M. at the Supreme Council Medical Center.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u98	Thank you, Mahalo Borisovich. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the next question: the draft concession law (registration number 0879). The Deputy Head of the Economic Development Committee, Podlas Rocksolan Andriyov, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! It's going to be very short. You know, we've already voted in general on the concession bill 1046, and then Bill 0879, which was left to us as a legacy of the previous convocation, has lost its relevance. The Economic Development Committee therefore proposes that the draft Law 0879 be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they are motivated. Let's do it with motive. Stéphane Ivanovich Kubyev, next – OIC. All of them? Three speeches per minute with a motive, and we move on to the vote. Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u101	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to say that this bill, which we have considered in our own time in the Supreme Council, has been discussed clearly at two committee meetings. He's out of date for today. We generally approved the bill under number 1046. Bill 1046 was also signed by the President of Ukraine. I want to say that this bill has a common form and has a common form, and it has successful work, generally approved at a committee meeting. We were aware of the decision that on our committee, along with the relevant ministries, a legislative act that is also public today, which is on a legislative basis supported by the President, was approved and approved by the country. And I would like to support the decision made by Mrs. Roxolan Podlas' deputy head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u102	Thank you. Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u103	Honorable National MPs and chief, distinguished voters! I'm drawing your attention to the fact that this really draft law that was voted in the last Parliament, it really duplicates the draft law that we voted on, and it's already been signed. And most of all. I want to address you, dear voters, that the old faces, the representatives of the former team, are today's party, including the Servant of the People, who produce the same intellectual product. And that's why we don't have any change in economic policy or mechanisms for overcoming poverty. And that's why I'm warning the future that we don't have any more of these, and we were able to actually get that new intellectual product instead of getting old laws from the previous authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u104	Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich. Shahov Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u105	Sergei Shahov, Luganshina. It is very good that the Lord has ruled so, that the bill is returned and there is no vote in this room for concessions. We fought exactly six years ago to get the Luganskvod concession back into the human realm at all. All state enterprises, monopolies should belong to people, to the Ukrainian people -- water, gas, oil, land, electricity. It is good that this bill is not being considered today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee's conclusion: withdraw. Take the bill off the table. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, we've voted on the concession law before. Now it's really very important, yes. And it's very important to take it. I completely agree with you. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a motion to withdraw the bill from consideration, the concession bill, the concessions bill, number 0879. Please support and vote. [[17:34:11]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the next question is very similar. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental (registration No. 0876). The committee will also propose that it be removed from consideration. I give the floor to Roxolani Andriyevni. And the request just goes to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u107	I'll take this opportunity to stress that Bill 0876 is not the same as Bill 1055-1 that we voted with you, but it changes the old drafts of the bill. the law, so it's out of date. It is suggested that we withdraw.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u108	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba insists on motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u109	Dear Mr. Golovo, Mrs. Roxolana, I would like to say that this bill regulates the area of rent relations with respect to state and municipal property. This is a very important bill on educational institutions. We've approved Bill 1055-1 as a whole, it's signed by the President, and it's very important today. What I'm saying is that the rent of government and utility property also solves problems that use the real-price area, the real deal, and the real-world perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, I propose we proceed to the vote. I'm betting on a motion to withdraw a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rent (registration No. 0876) from consideration. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:36:17]] For 295 Decision taken. Draft Law. You've been offered a bill on "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" (registration number 0878). He's reporting to Podlas Roxolan Andriyevn. The proposal will be the same: withdraw the bill from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u111	The Committee on Economic Development proposes that the draft Law on "Buy Ukrainians, Pay Ukrainians" be withdrawn as such, which became obsolete after the adoption of the new edition of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u112	Thank you. Jaroslav Ivanovich Železniak with a motive and we move on to. And Yvchenko after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, it would be right and fair if the authors called this law "buy in oligarchs," because it had nothing to do with "buy Ukrainian." Thank you to the committee for its position that it was rejected. Thank you very much for the large number of people who are now in this room who have not allowed the adoption of this bill to happen in the past. Thank you very much for your position at the time, Deputy Prime Minister Ivanni Klimpush-Cincadze, for the principle of the position that this bill was not adopted. And I very much hope that our calling will never make such mistakes or accept such a bill even in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u114	Thank you. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u115	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My colleagues, you know, here I hear my colleagues and I want to talk about how things are in other countries. For example, there is a policy of protectionism in Japan. In practice, government contracts are rarely made with foreign companies. Colleagues, there's a code of so-called Alba laws in Italy that represents the interests of national suppliers. Its positions are prohibited to hold certain types of products in companies that are not included in the register of such suppliers in that country. Colleagues, we have to respect the Ukrainian manufacturer, do the best we can to help them in purchasing and other financial and credit institutions, we mean that they worked with them to keep the added value in Ukraine. And now you're proposing to withdraw a bill that actually lays the foundation for small and medium-sized business development, and there's a real chance to launch a positive driver for economic growth. "Paternal" will hold, ah.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u116	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u117	At the same time, we encourage our government to pay more attention to the Ukrainian producer so that VAT remains in Ukraine. Added value in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u118	Thank you. Klimpush-Cincadze.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u119	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I am very pleased to press the button myself to send this bill into existence and call upon all my colleagues to support such a decision by the committee because under a beautiful name it was not really about protecting the Ukrainian trader, but it was about a complete violation of both the Association Agreement and our obligations in the WTO system. And I'm very happy that finally those corrupt schemes that were put into this bill, along with its authors, will go into oblivion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u120	Coltunovich Alexander Sergiyovich. Turn it on from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u121	Please give me the word of Volosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u122	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, we could still hear the arguments if we saw an alternative similar bill for the consideration of the Supreme Council right now. But if this is really about what we're being asked not to follow the basic principle that Ukrainian taxpayers' money should, at any given opportunity, stay in Ukraine, I think it's just a crime to follow this rule. There is, of course, a product that is simply not physically produced in Ukraine or that is of insufficient quality. But at the same time, cancel it, as you know, with a list of enterprises that are not privatized. First we had to create a new list and then cancel the existing one. If we work for Western transnational corporations, I don't think this Parliament has the right to be called the Ukrainian Parliament. We have, first, if it's a bad law, a better law, a vote for it, and then we're going to take a look at this seemingly bad bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u124	Thank you. You supported it, didn't you? I'm just seeing that it was Laity's bill. All right. I think there's an opportunity to make proposals. This will be a very good idea, and the hall will support it. In the meantime, I propose to put to the vote a motion to withdraw the draft bill "Buy Ukrainian, Pay Ukrainians" (0878) for consideration. Please prepare for the vote. And while colleagues are preparing, if I'm not mistaken, for a bill that will address these same issues, it is necessary that this bill, which colleagues say is lobbying, is not in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we have to take it off the table. Is everyone ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:42:20]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductors (0899). Reported to Podlas Rocksolan Andriyovn, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, since we have already supported the Law 1062 on Semiconductors, I propose that some other half-conductors be removed from consideration, because this will be too much for this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u126	Volosin Oleg Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u127	Dear Mr. Speaker, I always appreciate your intelligence and wit, but it was learned in one institution. You know, if Mr. Lazko sometimes did more than just bad things, including offering a chemical castration of pedophiles, his very name shouldn't knock us down in that sense. And the same goes for the previous one. But with that in mind. If we're already here against some lobbyist bill, let's say that previously voted in term as an immediate bill on, the Law, more specifically, half-leaders, is usually lobbyist. And many of the deputies in your faction know very well, in the interests of which run representative of the government of Yanukovich this law was approved. So I'm just funny when this argument is used. Lobby always is and will be. If it's lobbyism in the interests of Ukrainian manufacturers, there's nothing wrong with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u128	Thank you. The position of the committee and then I will give it to Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u129	Bill 1062 was totally non-discriminatory and did not create any special conditions for any oligarchs, and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u130	Stephen Ivanovich of Cuba.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u131	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow Members, I would like to say that this bill, like the previous one, has been widely discussed on two readings at a committee meeting. The other one. What I'm saying is that this bill was essentially of a technical and up-to-date nature, which was extended. was introduced by the government in the past. And the third. I want to say that Bill 1062, which was approved in the first and second readings, is also signed by the President. The very fact that the bill is supported tells us that it is similar, but it is modern, and it is supported, signed by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to withdraw the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of the rights to the design of semiconductor products (registration number 0899) from the review. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:45:43]] For 298 Decision taken. Let's go. Show the factions, please. "Serve of the People" – 215, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 12, "European Solidarity" – 17, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 11, "Voice" – 15, "non-factional" – 15. Let's move on to the next question, dear colleagues. You have been proposed to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee (registration number 0937). Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u133	Dear Head, dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy considered a bill (registration number 0937) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee, and considering that the bill nullifies the notion of guarantee as such, the Committee proposes to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u134	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote and reject. I am voting on the proposal to reject the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee (registration number 0937). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:47:33]] For 269 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question. You have been given a draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change according to your father) (registration number 0938). Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u135	At the request of the Head of the Legal Policy Committee on 30 August 2019, at its meeting, the draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code (as regards the rights to change in father) (registration number 0938) was considered and, having considered it, we recommend that the Supreme Council reject the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, if this does not require discussion. Needs it? Prince Ruslan Petrovich, European Solidarity.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, the point is that this bill is quite unforgivable. This is a bill that, you know, no citizen in Ukraine now has any restrictions on changing their name or surname, but there are limits to their father's. This bill, in accordance with our international legal obligations, offers this opportunity for Ukrainian citizens. And just like that, we have to realize right now that it would be good if we made decisions right now, as in the previous ones, that we're going to somehow fill this legal gap with new legislation. As we have a large number, for example, of the Hungarian or Romanian population that wants to have a Ukrainian transliteration of their father, and in these countries, that is, in countries where they actually received their father, there is no father at all. And we have to decide what to do with these cases: whether to adapt this legislation to Ukrainian realities, or whether to allow them to simply reproduce this transliteration. This is a difficult task that the Supreme Council, for example, has not been able to solve in a number of calls. So I'd like to ask fairly reasonablely.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u138	Dear colleagues. Give me 10 seconds to finish. No, it's not. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. I am voting against the proposal to reject the draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine (for the right to change according to the father) (registration number 0938). Please support and vote. [[17:50:24]] For 284 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, you have been invited to consider a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the resistance to trafficking and protect the victims (registration number 0940). Reported to the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Fries Igor Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u139	Good evening, dear fellows! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered a bill amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to increase opposition to human trafficking and protect victims (register No. 0940). It came to us as an inheritance from the previous calling of the Supreme Council and the committee for second reading were prepared. a comparative table has been drawn up for a bill containing four amendments and proposals that propose rejecting the bill. Let me tell you very briefly why this happened. The bill proposes that the delegated powers of the executive bodies of rural, rural, city councils should be amended accordingly, and that they should be empowered to make payments of the disposable financial assistance. At the same time, in preparation for the consideration of this bill, the committee members were appointed, and we found this confirmation that during. On October 3, 2017, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Law on the Amendment of the various Codes of the Master Code of Ukraine, Civil Procedure, the Code of Administrative Justice and others, by introducing these relevant codes in a new edition. And this bill is trying to make changes to standards that haven't changed, so it's lost its relevance today. On the basis of this, members of the Legal Policy Committee have reached agreement and recommendations to the Supreme Council for a bill number 0940 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you will. Yes. Of course. Ruslan Petrovich Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u141	Thank you, Mr. Head. I'm here to support the reporter. Indeed, there is a problem, it has been created artificially, because in the past, the Council of Legal Policy, the Ministry of Social Policy, which was the initiator of this bill, passed a bill, and it actually applies only to the adaptation of the definition of "trafficking in human beings" to the UN Convention on Transnational Organized Crime. But the Ministry of Social Policy, through a profile committee, has brought about a number of other changes that have been duly disrupted by the bill, and this bill has therefore not been adopted. I just want to explain why it's happened for a few years that it hasn't actually been accepted. Since his acceptance was no longer necessary, it was no longer necessary. But since this bill is now being passed, in principle, the decision proposed by the subcommittee is correct, I think we can support it with a session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there are no more speakers, let us go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal to reject the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing the resistance to trafficking and protecting victims (registration number 0940). Please support and vote. [[17:54:24]] For 287 Decision taken. Let's see the factions. "Serve of the People" – 216, "Responsible Platform for Life" – 14, "European Solidarity" – 1, "Fatherhood" – 13, "For the Future" – 12, "Voice" – 15, "non-factional" – 16. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I inform you that the North Atlantic Council, led by the Secretary-General of NATO, will visit Ukraine on 30 and 31 October. A statement by the Secretary-General of NATO at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 31st is planned within the framework of this visit. In accordance with articles 6 and 34 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we either need to make or vote in favour of this issue by consensus. If necessary, we can vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then let us move on to the subject. Thank you. If there's no objection, then let's move on. Dear colleagues, I am considering a draft Order amending some of the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 2210). Reports the chairman of the Committee on Questions. Oh, stop. Dear colleagues, I suggest you consider it as a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:56:21]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am continuing the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for 15 minutes, but before we consider the matter. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, and Innovation, Babak Sergey Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! As we all remember, in order to promote the development of national science and technology, and to enhance the participation of talented young scientists in the conduct of interdisciplinary scientific research and the promotion of the prestige of the scientific worker and his role in society, the Supreme Council of January 1, 2008 established the prize for the most talented young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied scientific research and technological development, as well as the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the most talented young scientists. The procedure for awarding bonuses and scholarships to young scientists is regulated by appropriate regulations. With a view to clarifying the individual regulations, as well as improving the procedure for the promotion and selection of jobs and candidates by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appropriate regulations and new positions were adopted on February 5, this year. Thus, since 2019 the Supreme Council of Ukraine has established 30 bonuses, as well as 30 scholarships of 60 subsistence minimums for working persons each. The adoption of the draft regulation will determine the mandate of the Committee on Education, Science and Innovation to ensure that organisational issues are implemented for the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to young scientists and the name scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for young scientists, as well as for the submission of projects related to the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Education, Science and Innovation unanimously supported and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider a draft regulation amending certain decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and adopting it as a basis and as a whole. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u144	Thank you, Sergey Vitaliovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? We can vote. I am betting on voting on the basis and on the whole of the bill of amendments to certain decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (Registration No. 2210). Please prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? Please support and vote. [[17:59:01]] For 305 Decision taken. Orders adopted in general. Dear colleagues, two announcements from Ruslan Alexiyovich Stefanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u145	Dear colleagues, two more interfractional mergers are to be completed. The first merger is an interfractional Turbasa MP. The heads of this association are Natalhu Dmitry Andriyovich, Nalitova Dmitry Alexanderovich, Lozinski Roman Mihailovich, and Skrum Alon Igorovna. And creating an interfractional merger of the New Kiev. Head of this association of elected Ukrainian national deputy Tkachenka Alexander Vladislavovich. Welcome, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2019-10-29-m1.u146	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you for your fruitful work. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Don't forget the cards, please. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 a.m.
